……..Seeks Release Of Igboho, KanuThe Pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere has said that it is convinced that restructuring Nigeria before the 2023 general elections is achievable, stressing that the adoption of the Reports of the 2014 National Conference and the 2018 Mallam El-Rufai Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on true federalism with desirable modifications is necessary.  Afenifere in a communiqué issued after its first annual general meeting on Tuesday held at the country home of the Acting Leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, in Isanya Ogbo, Ogun State and signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Comrade Jare Ajayi expressed concern over the rising insecurity in the country. We have also always recommended what we consider as the ways out of the unprecedented security challenges facing us. “We strongly call on the present administration under President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure the introduction of State Police equipped with requisite means to enhance security in the states and that of the federation ultimately. The performance of Amotekun Security Network in the South-West in conjunction with the Nigerian Police has shown clearly that all the criticisms against state police are unfounded and self serving.  The socio-political organisation called on all men and women of conscience, particularly the international community to which human rights and freedom are abiding faith, to prevail on the governments of Nigeria and Benin Republic to release Sunday Sunday Adeyemo popularly called Sunday Igboho. “Not only that, the federal government should also pay Sunday Igboho the damages awarded to him by the court upon the savage attack on his person and property. “We also called on the federal government to release Nnamdi Kanu even if on political consideration as happened in the case of Asari Dokubo under the then President Olusegun Obasanjo,” the communiqué further reads. The group lamented that even though the country had never met the dream of its founding fathers, the situation had never been so bad socially, economically and politically, pointing out that the country can never get out of its present logjam, let alone develop, unless there is restructuring.  Among the leaders in attendance were the former Governor of Kwara State, Chief Cornelius Adebayo, former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Senator Kofo Bucknor-Akerele, Senator Femi Okunrounmu, Chief Supo Sonibare, Chief Sola Ebiseni, the Secretary General, Dr. Gbola Adetunji, Chief Korede Duyile, Abagun Kole Omololu, Hon. Leke Mabinuori, Chief Kofoworola Doherty, Dr. Ebun Sonaiya, Chief Tunde Onakoya, Senator Femi Lanlehin, Jumoke Ajasin-Anifowose, Chief Segun Olawoyin and Deacon Owolabi Oladejo, Chief Olu Pesu, Reverend Goke Omigbodun and a host of others..