Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese, as well as the General Secretary, Civil Consciousness Initiative (CCI). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recent withholding of assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the recent withholding of Presidential assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill? I saw it coming. It was as a result of the battle of wits between the Executive and the Legislature. First, one of the areas of contention is the direct and indirect primaries. From the experiences of the past the legislature knows that the executive arm at the start was so powerful.If you fall out with your governor, you are gone. The primary is by representation. With the power of the governor, he decides who returns and who does not. All his cabinet members, SAs, SSAs, etc, are delegates. So, during the primaries, the governors have upper hand. That was why the legislature had to decide on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the issue of direct primaries. Delta 2023 Governorship: We Will Not Oppose The Choice Of DC-23… 2023: Abia Foremost Philanthropist, Chief Omerekpe Declares For… They knew that it was very expensive. INEC has already made a budget of N300,000 billion. If direct primaries are allowed, it will be like another election and another funding. That is one of the reasons the president gave for withholding his assent. If the bigger parties can carry it, the smaller ones will not. I can remember my experience when I ran for the governorship of Lagos State under the NCP. If it was by direct primary, every member of the party would have to vote right from the ward level. The collation would be cumbersome. It is however not rigging proof. Now that the president has returned the Electoral Act Amendment Bill to the National Assembly, what do you think is the solution to this brewing Executive-Legislative impasse? The legislature arm has the power to override veto if two-thirds of both chambers vote in favour of the bill. If they do, then, it becomes law. But, can our present rubber stamp legislature have the courage to override Buhari’s veto? If they can, then they have come of age and no one will call them appendages of the executive arm, which we believe they are. Do you see the possibility of a dialogue or lobbying between the executive and the legislature to see the bill through soon? POLL Lobbying or dialogue by the executive, legislature and the governors may affect the possibility of getting the two-thirds to override the bill. As many legislators who want to return to both the Senate and the House of Representatives will back the governors, the two chambers cannot get the two-thirds majority at both chambers of the National Assembly. Their decisions may be due to their selfish interests rather than the national interest. What is your take on the reported 20% increase in salaries of policemen? We have already said that the policemen are poorly remunerated. They attribute their corrupt practices in the police to their poor remuneration. The 20% is inadequate. Their barracks and houses are nothing to write home about. The policemen provide their uniforms and buy their shoes. If the government wants to help the police, there should be a complete overhaul of the system with completely new orientation and total overhaul. People are calling for state police when we are talking of free education. The funding comes from the Federal Government, but the workings are at the state level. We can still have state police funded by the Federal Government. In education, SUBEB recruits and local authorities supervise, while the funding comes from the Federal Government. The Federal Government cannot transfer a teacher recruited in Lagos to Kano for instance. The same thing can apply in the police. There should be a complete review of the system. 20% of what is not enough, will not be enough. How would you assess the outgone 2021? Delta Guber 2023: My Vision Is To Consolidate On Okowa’s… 2023: Ex Police Affairs Minister Tips Fayemi For Presidency The outgoing year, if you want to access it, it has to be by certain indices. These include political, economic, social, education, health, etc. if you put them together, it can be said that the country has done very, very poorly. Let us look at the economy. The level of inflation in 2021 was unprecedented. I don‘t want to look at the statistics. But, we can physically assess the level of inflation. What you bought with N10 in January last year, by December, it had gone up by 100%, while salaries remain static. That is why there is serious hunger in the land. I went to Mile 12 market (in Lagos State) recently. In the past, by the yuletide season, there would not have been space for vehicles conveying yams. It is no longer so. Insecurity in the north has severely affected food production. People find it difficult to go to the north when they may not be alive to return. So, the few people who can bring in food sell at high costs. This is affecting every food produce. How much was the Naira to the Dollar in January last year? What is it now? All these affect employment. When companies are not doing well, they lay off staff. We have a larger number of graduates who are unemployed. So, 2021, was one of the worst years Nigerians have to pass through. Would you say that by available indices, 2022 will be a better year? From all indications, 2022 cannot be better. I am not a prophet of doom. I align myself with former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He said that nothing can improve under this President Muhammadu Buhari regime. The New Year, 2022, is an election year. From this year, it will be about those who want to hold one position or another. In a year before general elections, there is no governance. This regime is going. Even the money for projects will be diverted into politics, both at the federal and state levels. So, Nigerians should not expect any miracle in 2022. What you see in the morning determines what happens in the evening. With rumoured plans for the removal of oil subsidy, there will be an increase in fuel price. President Muhammadu Buhari will take certain decisions that will not be popular with the people because he is not coming back after 2023. I think Nigerians should buckle their belts and prepare for tougher 2022. You have always said that the APC would experience an implosion before the 2023 general elections. With controversies surrounding the party’s national convention and recent advice by former Governor Orji Uzor Kalu, would you say your prediction was about to come to pass? For how long will the APC be shifting their national convention? That will show you that what I said about APC’s implosion is real. The last National Chairman of APC produced by a convention was Adams Oshiomhole. People are already forgetting Oshiomhole. The Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee is not popular. It means that the ruling party is ruling without a party structure. APC has several divisions. You still have Buhari’s CPC, Bola Tinubu’s ACN and his people, splinter groups from PDP, ANPP and splinter groups from APGA. All these splinter groups are still alive. If APC zones the presidency to the South, we have Amosun of CPC, Fayemi is there. Tinubu is there, and other groups are lining up behind the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. If they go ahead and do the convention, one candidate will emerge. This may not go down well with many. Those who are not satisfied will leave the party. There are also people in PDP who are not happy with the outcome of their own convention. So, all these disgruntled factions may come together to form a new party. If they are not registered as a party by INEC, they may take over one of the registered small parties. So, I still stand on my prediction that there may be an implosion in APC and PDP before the 2023 general elections. It was also predicted that some disgruntled members of the APC and PDP may team up to float another political party before the 2023 general elections. Do you see it as possible? It is not impossible that disgruntled people within the two parties will come together. But, if PDP succeeds in putting their house in order, it may be the bigger house that will harbour the disgruntled elements from the ruling party, APC. That is just what is happening in Lagos. The major opposition in the APC house has already moved to the PDP. The same thing may happen naturally, if PDP puts its house in order. They may just be there to receive those who will defect from APC. What is your take on the New Nigerian Movement being floated by Mao Ohuabunwa and some stakeholders? It is not a new thing in Nigerian politics. In the 2019 general elections and other elections, it was so. Obasanjo, Oyinlola and others floated a group. Technocrats like Ohuabunwa, Moghalu, Dino Melaye, Ezekwesili, they came together to float parties. But, those intellectuals do not understand how Nigerian politics works. So, they form organisations without grassroots support, but exist only on paper and the media. Politics in Nigeria is about the grassroots. If there is going to be a New Nigeria Movement, they must be able to carry along the grassroots people and the commoners. If not, it will be a waste of time. These are people who speak the language of the masses. Are they being carried along? Sunday Igbogho is not a graduate, but he has mass followership. Nnamdi Kanu has a way of getting the ears of the common man and even the market people. How many markets has Ohuabunwa gone to? For one to be known in the nation does not give one political advantage. You have to be known to the common man in the streets. How do you see the recent axing of three state High Court judges over ex parte orders in cases involving former PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus? The problem with the judiciary is that the judiciary is up for sale. Justice in Nigeria is up for sale to the highest bidder and politicians take advantage of this. When a case is in court, another judge of equal jurisdiction should not take up the case. They should have waited and go to appeal if they could and one is not satisfied. It does not make sense. This nearly marred the Anambra election. Soludo was facing all sorts of court cases. They nearly turned the courts to INEC. It also nearly marred the APC convention and contributed to the crises in Edo APC. Till date, the APC is still suffering the same effect. It finally lost its candidate in the Anambra State, although he lost the election proper. Also, till date after the removal of Adams Oshiomhole through the courts, they cannot hold a national convention. So, I see the action of the NJC as proper to restore sanity to the judiciary. Oshiomhole was suspended in June 2020. Till date, APC has no National Chairman and the Buni Caretaker Committee cannot bring about peace in APC with several factions in the states. What Orji Kalu advised does not make sense. We all know why he is in APC.