ISEGHE AJAYI The perspective about how you view wealth creation will determine how far you will forge ahead in your financial life this year. Mind you, the year is still very fresh and it is better to commence making concrete plans on how to be financially independent to be free from debts and reach your goals set for the year. You Need To Set Attainable Financial Goals This New Year What Next, Now That The Celebrations Are Over? It is crucial you try as much as possible to work on your money management by matching your current financial status with your expenses to avoid posh financial lifestyles that may not be beneficial. Besides, there is need to make more money to beat inflation that has plagued the Nigerian economy. There is no way a particular source of income will give you that financial independence, hence, the need to embrace residual income and be resolute to improve your financial status. Refuse to wallow in financial self-pity this year, rather have a positive mindset about wealth creation by pursuing your dream vigorously. But, if you are the kind of person that easily give up on your dreams or financial goals as a result of the unfavourable state of the economy, creating wealth will be tough for you except you change your mindset of pessimism. POLL It is very true that there is no one that does not crave for financial independence but to some individual; it is just a dream that may never come true because of their myopic financial sense of reasoning which includes lack of independence. They set financial goals at the beginning of every New Year, but do not bother to follow it since they are comfortable with their current financial state even if they are not contented. But for those who are untiring to deal with their financial fears, having the right mindset about wealth creation, accomplishing financial freedom or goals is very possible regardless of their monthly earnings. Do you know that having personal savings account has nothing to do with the amount of money you earn but your attitude towards money? Building wealth is not a child’s play but requires self-determination, financial prudence and discipline. The under-listed strategy will help you to boost your financial status this year: Making The Most Of Your Money This Christmas Time To Review Your 2021 Budget Pursue Your Financial Vision And Remain Focused It would do you real good to have a vision on your financial desires, focus on it and ensure you accomplish your set goals. It is true that several people are too nervous to disclose they yearn for something and go for it but when there is something that you want to achieve in life, do not be pessimistic about it, pursue your dream by being optimistic and do not accept defeat! Set Achievable Goals It is practically impossible to accomplish anything without setting firm financial goals. With it, you will be conscious of your set target and try as much as possible to reach it. That is why it is imperative to set financial goals that are attainable so as to get there at your own pace. Do not try to get wealthy quickly through fraudulent means to avoid regret and financial losses, but look for ways to boost your earnings; it could be through change of job or alternative sources of income. Invest Early One vital way to accumulate or build wealth is early investment; it is essential you begin investing as soon as you starting earning money. The amount of wealth you can amass depends on when you start investing. Mind you, starting early allows your money to multiply and increase progressively overtime, even if you do not have enough money to invest. Therefore, do not forget to start investing as early as possible. Besides, it is a big blunder to assume that your earnings are not enough to invest at the moment as it will certainly catch up with you later, leading to financial regrets. Invest Your Money To Achieve Long-Term Goals It is very vital to invest your money especially if you have long-term financial set goals. Investments are different from savings as they are expected to grow your money that would be spent in the future. Investing is also best for minor goals you want to attain in at least five years, such as buying or building a home. If saving and investing a minimum of 15 percent of your gross income seems like more than you can give, why not start tracking your expenses cautiously and categorising them so as to create space for opportunities to save more. Be Financially Cautious Most Billionaires try as much as possible to live within their means even though they have the money, they are not extravagant because they know what it takes to make money and remaining at the top or sustaining their financial status or position is paramount to them. One way of being prudent is to create a budget that you can adhere to strictly as it will help you to curtail your expenses and also know how much money is coming in. Invest In Yourself Education is the best thing you can invest in yourself. That is why if you really want to be at the top financially; you must never stop learning! Most people when they are done with their education, they feel that their learning days are over which is surely a wrong mindset. Do you know that successful people are always eager to read and learn new skills that will be profitable to them? This is one good habit of billionaires; their minds are active and calculating. They do not just read for entertainment alone but take time to study business trends, ideas and financial news to become an authority in their field. Billionaires ensure they stay up to date on what is modern. Advertise Yourself To thrive in your business or career, you must be willing to advertise yourself and profit from the attention to a certain extent. Currently, the attention does not need to be on yourself, it could be on your brand, but it will surely attract money. Chase Your Passion Many billionaires have this notion that having passion is key to attaining financial success and as such instead of chasing money; they pursue their financial dreams vigorously. And in the process of doing what they derive pleasure or passionate about, they do not waiver as they believe that their dreams will certainly produce financial success. Besides, it is expedient to pursue that dream or passion you love if you want to experience financial independence because if you are just doing it to make money, you may lose your heart and may not get financial satisfaction. That is why if you have not found that passion that gives you joy or that thing you love doing, keep looking for it until you find it. Do not settle for anything! Hardworking Pays Successful people are hardworking and very diligent in their work as whatever financial goals either long or short-term they set to achieve, with so much effort and determination, they ensure to reach such goals. They will not take ‘No’ for an answer for any given task or project in as much as they believe it is achievable. Wealth builders tend to work harder than everyone else but still enjoy life. Besides, they are known for their insane work ethics.