EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION cfm ETI Pays Dividend In US$, Won’t The Scarcity Of FX In Nigeria Discourage The Practice? Why Was The Notice Of Union Bank’s Acquisition Without The Price, Unlike That Of Diamond Bank? NACCIMA Tasks Women On Business Development APEDETT 2022 Investments Conference: We Will Adopt Malaysian,… ###### MARKET REVIEW Before we commence our discussions for today’s edition, I want to encourage us to share this link and invite our friends and neighbours to this our weekly Town Hall Meeting that it aimed at demystifying the equities’ market, knowing that the more the participants in the market, the better for everyone, and the more the number of participants in this town hall, the richer our encounter. It’s a free class. As you know, the market is for buying and selling- demand and supply, and if we have more people participating in the market, it will be more active for the benefit of us all, and we can plan more effectively, as there will be more flow of funds and liquidity into the market. Don’t tell them to come and invest or trade… They will know whether to invest or trade after attending the meeting two or three times. Another important announcement is that we are starting a live stock market trading session in the first week of February, from 12 to 12.30pm, making use of a live chart, rather than the usual end-of-day chart. We will chart the market as it is going on. We would watch the market from morning to mid-day and then from 12.00 to 12.30, we would conclude and tell you how the market will close and what you should do. Try to attend the live class by God’s grace in the first week of February via Zoom, and I pray that it will be a worthwhile experience for us all, as we join from anywhere we are across the globe. It is a thing of joy that many more people are participating in our town hall every Saturday and getting value for the time spent participating, as the market is becoming more interesting for all of us. For those who want to read the outcome of the meeting and questions asked, this edition will be published in the Sunday Independent newspaper of next week. The one (Equity Traders & Investors’ Town Hall with Ambrose Omordion Cfm) you will find in the newspaper tomorrow is that of last Saturday. We need to do much more to get more investors participating in the market. On our own, we are also taking investor education to different schools, to start teaching children how to obtain this knowledge. I keep telling people that no matter who you are: a banker, medical doctor, engineer or even a politician, you should know how to create wealth with what you have, no matter what you are earning… You can teach your children to at least start saving, otherwise, they cannot learn to invest. But for those of us that are already grown up, we need to see how we can spend our money on errands, but you have to do it with knowledge. At the end of the day, the market will be robust for us all, with more participants, such that at the end we also create employment, because if more people are playing the market more companies will come and raise funds to do a lot of things. To begin the review of last week’s trading activities today, we are going to walk through the chats and the lines, but before I go into that, I want to ask just a simple question for which I need an answer: Is the Nigerian stock market in an overbought region now, or oversold? I need an answer before I continue, because I’m telling you, earnings season is around the corner and it is not about direction, but volatility. At this point now, I see from the chart that the market has crossed its 12-year and five-year stronger resistance of 45,000 basis points and moved above it. So, as we speak now from your own angle, is the market overbought now, or in an oversold region? PARTICIPANT I: Overbought and it will still continue until March… POLL PARTICIPANT II: Going by the trend, I don’t think the market is overbought at this moment. Another question is: There are four, or five phases in a market cycle- accumulation, markup, distribution, and decline phase. What phase are we in now? PARTICIPANT I: I will say that we are at the accumulation stage, given that the earnings season is coming, people are buying more for both the capital appreciation and dividend income. You all have answered the questions correctly, a sign that we are intelligent investors in this house, which is why we’re different from others in the market. If you look at the chart we are seeing here… I told you before, in any market, multiple timeframes are very important in your analysis. Don’t assume one and leave the other, they are all important that’s why, when you are chatting you need to look at your daily chat, because in our market here, we use end-of-day, but if you are using live chart, you can use the one-hour chart, but now we are using end-of-day, hence the need to look at your daily chart. That will give you quicker information and signals to enable you to take action. After that, you look at your weekly chat… for your monthly and then quarterly. These three charts- daily, weekly and monthly should guide you to arrive at a decision at any time you are in the market. And that’s why we don’t just look at the chat with one eye, open your eyes and look at other factors, because your chart may be showing positive indicators, but news in the horizon is not looking bright, notwithstanding the fact that the chart is supposed to have sieved all the necessary information. True, but yet, we need to consider fundamental support, which is why a good trader or investor must at all times know how to combine both technical and fundamental analyses to arrive at an investment decision. Let me explain, in November, we saw the market hitting 44,062 basis points, followed by a small correction and then it started coming down. As it did, it tested the moving average of seven, 20, 50 and 100… Is Capital Gains Tax in the latest Finance Act not a disincentive to equity investors and traders on the NGX? Alerzo On The Lead Of Emerging B2B Ecommerce Trend Interswitch Supports NITDA’s National Privacy Week, Promotes… Your question is very clear, and people have in the past expressed such fears, and my simple answer since the law was enacted is “since it was announced, has it affected the market? No. The Capital Gains Tax Law applies when your profit threshold in your transaction (the difference between the price you bought the shares and sold) is above N100 million. Also, there is a clause in that law. Besides, if you are buying, and selling, it does not apply until you are taking the capital, or cashing out, or taking the money out of the market. It is your profit that is being taxed and not your capital. That means, for those of us not making up to N100 million, it doesn’t affect you. It is those that are making gains within the threshold from buying and selling shares that are taxable under that law. The retail investors will not feel it, because the target of the government are the institutional investors. Whenever they are cashing out their investments, they will pay tax, which for me is not a bad one. The law is not new globally, because it happens in other advanced countries, the difference here is that the government has exempted retail investors, hence the threshold. For me, a 10 percent tax of N100 million, is not too much contribution to help the economy grow. It is a welcome development for me and it is not too much of a sacrifice for those making good money. It won’t discourage participation in the equity market. ETI pays a dividend in US$, won’t the challenge of sourcing FX in Nigeria discourage the practice? I can’t honestly hazard a guess, but the board could come up with offering shareholders a choice of which currency they want their dividend paid in, that is if the situation is ever in the extreme. But the good thing in Ecobank Transnational Inc. is that although it has not paid a dividend for a while, we have seen the earnings that have emanated from the company in recent times. There is a high possibility that dividend will be paid this time around, judging by the numbers we have seen already at Q3 (Profit after tax for the first nine months of 2021 grew by 916 percent to N104.51 billion, from N10.28 billion reported in the corresponding period of 2020). But there is no absolute guarantee, because I am not on the board. But, not only that, ETI has what’s going to impact its cash flow in the new year and going forward. I said it on one of the TV programmes that I appeared recently that because of its Pan African payment platform, Pan-African Payments and Settlement System (PAPSS), which is like our own NIBSS (Nigerian Inter Bank Settlement System) that we have in Nigeria, that is going to be deployed for the African Continental Free Trade Area. The future of the group is very bright. As we speak, ETI operates across the continent and the branches in the various countries will plug into that platform, meaning that even as Nigerian banks- GTCO, UBA and Access Bank are expanding fast across the continent, the biggest immediate beneficiary of the free trade agreement could be ETI, because of its spread. We know the importance of an efficient payment system in trade, and money which is a necessary ingredient for trade to be considered balanced. If there is no payment there’s no trade, that means the payment platform will also be of benefit to the likes of Access Bank, and UBA that will also take advantage of it, because of their spread across Africa. ETI already has a foothold which is a good one. If you are in ETI, don’t panic as to whether you will be paid a dividend in US Dollars, or in Naira. The currency of payment is not as important as the fact that a dividend will be paid. Just stay in your position. PARTICIPANT III: Ambrose, ETI is not only listed in Nigeria. Its shares are traded on the Ghana Stock Exchange and in Cote d’Ivoire (Bourse Régionale des Valeurs Mobilières SA, or BRVM, located in Abidjan, which is the regional stock exchange serving the French West African countries of Benin Burkina Faso Guinea Bissau Côte d’Ivoire Mali Niger Senegal Togo). Because it is listed on three different countries and exchanges with different currencies, ETI will continue to pay in US Dollars, being the best way for uniformity. It cannot come to Nigeria and pay in Naira, then go to Ghana and pay Cedi and then Cote d’Ivoire and pay Cephas… No, the currency of payment will remain US Dollar. What happened to ETI’s preference shares, were they converted or the group is still paying off? PARTICIPANT III: You may need to go back to the registrars. They will pay you. What is the latest on the Flour Mills, Honeywell acquisition? For Honeywell Flour Mills, someone drew my attention to a publication last week about the company, and when I made contacts with those who should know, I learnt that the document I saw is part of what is being used to finalise the approval process by the various regulators and any moment from now, we would be told of the final decision on the deal. The parties have reached a very advanced stage, apart from ETI that has come up to state its claim. My source assured me that the authorities are reviewing the situation as in every merger and acquisition deal. The publication was necessary to inform shareholders of both companies of the development and then elicit observations, if any, before the deal is consummated. My take is that you hold on for the parties as the deal is still within tolerable timeframe, as they seek to agree on the business model. Why didn’t the Notice of Union Bank’s acquisition come with a price, unlike that of Diamond Bank? I believe that before the parties involved will sell about 83.3 to 97 percent of their stake to Titan Bank, they must have agreed on a price for the sales and we expect that they will furnish us with the price eventually. But, as we speak now, we believe that the shareholding structure of that bank (UBN) has changed, because about 83.99 percent stake is in the hands of one person, which is the controlling shares already. We are going to seek further information about what is happening, because up to this moment, we have not heard anything else after that day. I think the regulators should carry us along, if there is anyone in the town hall today with additional information, please kindly share. Again, if you look at the deal, it is a situation where a smaller bank is trying to ride on the back of its bigger competitor so as to spread its tentacles and gain a nationwide foothold. For that, I don’t envisage any changes in Union Bank, in terms of branding, except that there is a need for a lot of investments in the operating platform. In terms of staff strength, Union Bank has more than the one acquiring it. Titan Bank has less than 200 staff on its payroll, which cannot drive UBN’s operations across the country. My advice, therefore, is that you should watch and not sell your position, because Union Bank as an institution would be the net gainer of all these things happening, because it is the listed entity of the two partners. Let’s be on the lookout for further developments as they unfold, especially information about the transaction price at which it is being acquired. PARTICIPANT III: For now, available information on the Union Bank transaction is still just skeleton. We are told that the private equity firm who controls about 89 percent of the outstanding shares are selling and they have got a buyer. So, they must agree. Now, there are two questions. The first is, will the new owners delist the company (Union Bank) from the Nigerian Exchange Limited and convert it into a limited liability company? If the answer is yes, rest assured as a minority shareholder, Titan Bank will pay you the same price it paid the majority shareholder and delist Union Bank, like what Olam did to shareholders of Dangote Flour. But, if they choose to remain quoted, they will be compelled to buy some more shares at that price, which can be as low as 500,000 like Ardova did (when it acquired Forte Oil, formerly African Petroleum from its majority shareholder- Femi Otedola), or they can buy more. But, somebody that controls 89 percent is likely to take away the remaining 11 percent, so that he’d take everything. That is what I see that is likely going to happen to Union Bank, because 89 percent will not allow itself to be dragged down by the minority 11 percent, you would rather call the 11 percent shareholders “and pay them the same price I paid the 89 percent give me your own let me be delisted so that I will go and do what I want to do anytime, and any day I want to come back, I will.” PARTICIPANT IV: Let me say that Union Bank of Nigeria, being a quoted company… for a transaction of that magnitude to take place, it behooves on the parties to communicate at what price the shares are being sold. So, whether the transaction is completed already, we don’t know, or whether they’re still in the process. But, if it is a case where the transaction has been consummated fully, it behooves the regulators to compel them to tell the investing public the price at which those shares are being sold, among other conditions… about eighty something percent stake in a bank the age and spread of Union Bank, is not something that the public will not be interested in knowing the details. On the question about Honeywell, I was trying to make an inquiry through someone who had been on the board of BagCo, a member of the Flour Mill of Nigeria family, and what he said is that, as it is today, that acquisition has happened in principle, so that what the parties are just waiting for is the regulatory authority to give approval, since all the documents to support the request have been sent. So, once the regulatory authority gives the go ahead, it is a done deal, but he didn’t say at what price Flour Mill is acquiring Honeywell, but in principle, once the regulator approves and gets back to them, it will be announced to the public. The acquisition will likely take place, unless the regulator scuttles it. PARTICIPANT III: Flour Mills says it is acquiring Honeywell for N80 billion at which it was valued. So, it is for you to decide to take it as such. PARTICIPANT V: But, you know that in transactions, the company being acquired could have debt. So, whether that debt is also part of it. You can choose to say, of the N80 billion, N40 billion will go into defraying your debt and the balance is what we are going to acquire the shares. We need to find out whether the N80 billion being paid is with respect to the shares outstanding that they are acquiring, or whether you know… it’s broken down into different segments. I’ve seen transactions where they say okay we’re going to pay a total of N80 billion, but of this, we realise that you are owing banks N60 billion. Therefore, we will wipe out your loan from the banks. PARTICIPANT VI: I don’t think there is a basis for argument, because the terms of the transaction are very, very clear and they are buying the shares as they are. So, whether or not Honeywell Flour is having a loan in their books, or what have you, they have done the valuation and have placed the value at N80 billion, and the analysis that was done shows that the share acquisition price is likely to be about N7.61 per unit, which is what the previous speaker before you was saying that the acquisition price is already public. It is now left for individual investors to take their own positions. The market actually reacted when Ecobank Nigeria started making wahala and placing a caveat emptor on the transaction, and I think that is just what the market is a little bit wary of. But, as for the price, I think it’s already in the public domain. PARTICIPANT III: …and in addition to that, remember that Flour Mills is not acquiring 100 percent. I have to value your company, so that I will know what percentage I’m taking… Flour Mills is taking about 76 percent, so if they value it N80 billion, 76 percent of the N80 is what will be paid for, because they are not paying for 100 percent of the listed shares. If Flour Mills takes 100 percent like Olam did in the case of Dangote Flour, it will be clear to all of us, but they are not buying out the minority, they are specifically taking that 76 percent over. And, so, when they value the company, you take 76 percent and pay them. (On the issues of bank loans, among others,) when you buy a company, you take the assets and the liabilities. Is there a rule that says all banks in Nigeria must be listed on the NGX? PARTICIPANT III: There is no regulation compelling any company, not just banks to be listed on the NGX. It is by choice. You can be listed, or choose not to. Citibank is still operating in Nigeria, but has never been quoted. We can mention many banks that are in Nigeria and are not quoted- Keystone now is not quoted. Deutsche Bank is still operating in the country and never listed… It is not a must, coming to the exchange to be quoted is your choice. If you wish to be quoted or not, no problem. You can even be a Plc and yet not come to be listed… you are free. We have the Niger Delta Exploration Company Plc, FrieslandCampina, makers of Peak Milk… You don’t need to be quoted, once you have Plc, I can take your shares to NASD (an over-the-counter trading platform) and trade it and try it simple. What is the current Book Value of Union Bank? The current Book Value Per Share of Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, is N9.08. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is the transcript of the weekly free question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd, with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. Email: ambrose.o@investdata.com.ng.