Liverpool have reportedly told Newcastle what they will need to pay to sign Divock Origi this month, as Eddie Howe looks to bolster his attacking options. Callum Wilson’s injury has forced Howe’s hand somewhat, with the striker set to be out for at least six weeks with a calf injury. And The Telegraph claim the Magpies are interested in Origi, who is forever on the fringes under Jurgen Klopp at Anfield. Liverpool Told To Sign Bukayo Saka Tuchel’s Tactics Would Give Liverpool Edge Against Chelsea… The Belgium international’s contract expires at the end of the season but the Reds hold an option to extend his deal for another year. But the report claims Origi ‘wants to move on’ and despite losing both Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane to the Africa Cup of Nations, Liverpool ‘will not stand in the way’ of an exit this month. They have reportedly set a £7million asking price, which has further tempted Newcastle, with his ‘very generous wage’ unlikely to put them off as it has other potential suitors. Along with Origi, Newcastle are also said to be interested in Bournemouth‘s Dominic Solanke and Arsenal‘s Eddie Nketiah, while an enquiry has been made over Norwich‘s Todd Cantwell. Newcastle have also been linked with a move for Aaron Ramsey, with Juventus boss Max Allegri confirming the former Arsenal star is available for transfer. POLL The Wales midfielder has only started 25 league games during his two-and-a-half years in Turin. Last month, Ramsey’s former Gunners team-mate Jack Wilshere claimed the Welshman “would be a great signing” for Newcastle. “He would be a great signing for them,” Wilshere said on talkSPORT. “It’s a massive club, Newcastle. “He obviously had a successful spell at Arsenal, went to Italy, he hasn’t played as much as he wanted to. “He’s probably wanting to get back here, he’s got a young family. [He can go to a] big club, who are potentially going to be even bigger in the next four/five years.” Liverpool And Newcastle United To Track Olympiacos Midfielder… Jurgen Klopp Delivers Major Liverpool Boost Amid Premier League… January looks set to be a huge month for Newcastle, as they look to dip into the transfer market to climb out of the relegation zone – they currently sit 19th, two points off Watford in 17th.