ABUJA – As Kaduna State Governorship race hots up, a former Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District , Shehu Sani has indicated his interest to join the race in 2023. Sani said he is joining the race to rescue the state from the mess that have been created by  Governor Nasir El-Rufai. He disclosed this while speaking on a radio station Invicta FM during an interview in Kaduna on Saturday. I Will Be Next Governor Of Kaduna – Shehu Sani Boasts Dass Youths Protest Attack On Emir, The lawmaker said that he is throwing his hat in the ring  on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party  ( PDP ) adding that it is left for the Party to unite its members to form a government that will respect the will of the poor in Kaduna State. According to the lawmaker “We sat with my loyalists and supporters and they wanted me to contest the governor of Kaduna state which I will do to remove APC, God willing; to remove anointed candidate of the state governor and to enter Government house where Comrade will be sworn in as the next governor that will bring changes, that will clean all the dirt they brought in the state in the name of development.” “I will bring security. This is what my supporters wanted and I trust them. So, I will contest the governorship seat under the PDP. Therefore, I call on the people of Kaduna to support and collaborate with me. I also solicit for their prayers; I need the prayers of religious leaders, marketers, physically challenged, women and youths. You voted for Malam as Governor what remains now is to have a comrade as a governor so as to see the difference between us. “You must reject the anointed candidate ‎of those who demolished your houses. Support us to see how we form a government that respects the will of the poor in the state,” he said. POLL The lawmaker said as a contestant he doesn’t have money to share to delegates to vote for him, warning the people that money politics is what brought the country into “the mess under the ruling party”. He said if the masses decide to vote for him, with or without money, he would win.