ABUJA – The upper chamber of the Na­tional Assembly on Wednes­day took steps to save Nigeria about $2 billion on rice im­portation and to improve the country’s foreign exchange earnings. This followed the passage of a bill seeking to establish the National Rice Develop­ment Council. According to a report by the Committee on Agricul­ture and Rural Development Chaired by Senator Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa West), the bill seeks to establish a coun­cil that would lead to a com­prehensive development of the rice sector and the organ­isation of rice stakeholders to enhance local production of the commodity in Nigeria. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target In his presentation, Sen­ator Adamu explained that the establishment of the council would transform the activities of rice farmers, rice processors, millers, research­ers, marketers and other im­portant stakeholders across the entire rice value chain, particularly the clusters of smallholder rice farmers and small scale millers spread all over the country. He said, “With our natural comparative advantage in the area of rice production as a country, Nigeria should con­sider the need to put in place a National Rice Development Council and a fail-safe compre­hensive national rice develop­ment roadmap that will guide us not only into a regime of self-sufficiency in production, but also for export purpos­es, employment generation for our teeming youths and growth of our economy. “The Nigerian rice indus­try exists in abstract as there appears to be no form of coor­dination in the absence of a properly structured rallying point. “Today, we have Paddy Rice Dealers Association of Nigeria (PRIDAN), Rice Farmers Association of Ni­geria (RIFAN), Rice Proces­sors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN), Rice Millers Asso­ciation of Nigeria (RIMAN) and many more. “This Bill seeks to estab­lish that rallying point and a comprehensive national operational and governance structure for a complete rice value chain process.” POLL He added that the legisla­tion also seeks to enhance gov­ernment’s efforts for efficient policy and regulatory frame­work for the Nigerian rice industry; promote enabling business and investment environments for rice stake­holders; support the growth of the rice industry in Nigeria and in the sub-region as well as promote the sustainability of foreign exchange earnings put at about $2 billion annual­ly for rice related importation to the country. “The framework created by this Bill will pull invest­ment into rice production, provide the missing link be­tween rice production and industrialisation, provide employment, reduce migra­tion from rural to urban cities and enhance socio-economic activities all over the country. “Few countries having rice council include Rice Coun­cil of Tanzania, USA Rice Council, Directorate of Rice Development (India), Rice As­sociation of Thailand, among others,” Senator Adamu said.