ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu on Monday inaugurated 30 units of operational vehicles donated to commands and divisions of the Nigeria Police Force by the Abuja Municipal Area Council, (AMAC) in Abuja. Inaugurating the project, the minister said the donation arose from the chairman’s desire to contribute in assisting the police force in fighting crimes within the area council in particular, and by extension the Federal Capital Territory. The minister observed that with the increasing reliance on technology, it is becoming more and more essential to secure every aspect of the environment, noting that security begins with good prevention and basic knowledge. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC Aliyu also affirmed that since the outbreak of the coronavirus and government declaration of state of emergency, commercial burglaries have almost doubled in major cities across Nigeria, adding that in times like these, swift and smart operations are more important than ever. She furthere stated ; “In this wise, the handing over of these operational vehicles is in line with our mandate not just to deliver dividends of democracy to our people, but also to protect lives and property of citizens”. She, however, used the occasion to pledge the FCT Administration’s commitment in the provisions of basic amenities, as well as maintain the existing ones, while tasking residents to justify government’s investment in their communities. The minister commended the leadership of Abuja Municipal Area Council for equipping the police in fighting crimes, just as she called on residents to assist the police with useful informations that would aid them for the overall peaceful coexistence of their various councils. Meanwhile, Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council, Hon. Abdullahi Adamu Candido, hinted that the imperativeness of the donation of the security vehicles to the police formation lies in the burning desire to collaborate with other actors in the fight against crimes that are building empires in the nation’s capital. POLL The AMAC boss stressed that the creation of AMAC Marshal Guards, a security outfit is geared towards tackling the security challenges in the council and ultimately to provide intelligence gathering to other conventional security outfits, engaging in surveillance activities and rendering security services. Candido revealed that since the creation of AMAC Marshals in 2016, the outfit has employed not less than 600 youths from the council, noting that the increasing unemployment rate has heightened insecurity in the society. His words , “this has helped to reduce unemployment rate of our youths drastically and has also lessened criminal activities within the council”. The highpoint of the event was the official handing over of the keys to the Inspector General of Police by the FCT Minister of State.