AKURE – The selection and installation of a new Olore of Ore in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State may have to wait as one of the ruling families, Dero family, petitioned Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu over alleged attempt by his deputy, Hon. Lucky Aiyedatiwa to subvert subsisting court order on the chieftaincy matter. In the petition filed by the family through its attorney, Tope Temokun Esq., entitled: “Olore Of Ore Chieftaincy Dispute And The Conniving Role Of The Deputy Governor Of Ondo State In Conflict With The Government’s Official Position And In Disobedience To Court’s Admonition,” Governor Akeredolu was asked to stop the selection process in line with court order. Copying the state Attorney General, the Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Local Government Affairs and the chairman , Odigbo Local Government, the petitioner informed the governor that the initial chieftaincy declaration procured by the Akintimehin Family, which excluded other founding families of Dero and Orunsero families of Ore, was challenged in court and subsequently set aside and nullified. The Dero family’s right to the throne was restored on February 7, 2020 by an Ondo State High Court. ‘2023: Ethnic Conflict, Violence, Others Must Be Resolved For… Boko Haram Abduct Mobile Police Officers In Borno Besides, the court also declared the Olore stool vacant and the Dero family was pronounced to be the next family to present a candidate to fill the vacant position of the Olore of Ore. Consequently, the Akintimehin family appealed against the judgment and obtained a stay of execution of the judgment on the grounds of fair hearing not accorded the immediate past Olore of Ore, Oba Johnson Olatomide (from the Akintimehin family) for not being a party to the suit/judgment which voided the registered declaration and terminated his reign on the throne. According to the petition, “one year and two months after this, the said Oba Johnson Olatomide joined his ancestors and the Dero family had applied to the Court of Appeal, to vacate the said stay of execution, since the beneficiary, by natural cause, has now left the throne. “The Motion To Vacate The Stay Of Execution Of The Judgment Is Still Pending Before The Court Of Appeal.” The petitioner also referred to a letter issued by the office of state Attorney General on September 13, 2021 (in response to his(the petitioner’s) letter dated June 15, 2021) which advised that parties to the Olore of Ore chieftaincy dispute pending before the Court of Appeal should maintain status quo pending the determination of the appeal. The petition also states that “The court of Appeal, sitting on the Akintimehin family’s appeal in Akure in Appeal No: CA/AK/124/2019 which came up on the 5th of October 2021 before their Lordships Hon. Justice O.F Omoleye (Presiding), Hon. Justice R.M Abdullahi And Hon. Justice P.A Mahmoud, hinted that there was no need to move the motion for injunction dated 14th September 2021, in the light of the admonition that the Court gave afterward that parties should maintain status quo pending the determination of the appeal and warned on the dire consequence of any of the parties taking step to fill the vacant stool of Olore of Ore till the Court of Appeal give their verdict.” POLL However, the petitioner alleged that a letter of approval dated December 30, 2021 has been procured by the chairman, Odigbo Local Government, Mrs. Margaret Tale Akinsuroju, with the support of the deputy governor for the Akintimehin family to present a candidate for the stool of Olore of Ore conrary to the positions of the appellate court and the state government through the office of state Attorney General. The petitioner, who expressed confidence in Governor Akeredolu for his stance on justice and equity, cautioned that the deputy governor and the council chairman be called to order and prevent a repeat of recent inequitable presentation of candidates for vacant stools that threw some communities into chaos and anarchy, noting that Ore is a volatile community.