As part of efforts to encourage the political initiatives of the South-South PDP Youth Leaders in the geo-political zone towards speaking in one voice the victory of PDP in 2023, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Monday, approved the hosting of the South-South PDP Youth Leaders’ Summit in Asaba, Delta State capital. Reacting to this development by the South-South PDP Youth Leader, Barr. Lloyd Ineye Owonaro in a press statement made available to some group of Journalists today being 31st January 2022 in Asaba, Delta State capital, through the Event planning Committee Chairman, commended His Excellency, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for given approval for the hosting of the summit in Asaba, Delta State. The Youth leader stated that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has proven that he is a Youth-friendly Governor, and a good father to all, a true political, Patriotic leader whose desire is to see the PDP party soar to greater heights in Delta, South-South Geo-political zone and ensure that South-South Youths explore their potentials for sustainable Socio-economic, and Political development of the region and country. Delta Has Enhanced Drivers, Enablers Of Investments, Okowa Tells… Fuel Tanker Explosion: Okowa Visits Scene, Orders Immediate… The South-South Youth leader, Barr Lloyd Ineye Owonaro also, commended the doggedness of leadership, members of the committee set up for the summit lead by Comr. Uyero Erarawewho, Special Assistant Political to Delta State Governor Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa as well as the pragmatic leadership of the South-South PDP leaders, the indelible achievements of the South-South Governor’s in their various States, even as he counts on their support for the success of the summit. The Bayelsa State Born Legal Practitioner then thanked Delta State Government for making the vision of the Party’s South-South Youths a reality as the stage is set, that is, the event slated to take place on March this year, 2022 in Asaba, Delta State on the theme: “Youth and the Rescue Mission in Nigeria” The letter of approval from the office of Chief of Staff to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa reads in parts: “I am directed to acknowledge receipt of your letter to His Excellency, the Governor concerning DELTA STATE TO HOST SOUTH-SOUTH PDP YOUTH LEADERS’ SUMMIT IN ASABA. Kindly be informed that the content of your letter have been duly noted by His Excellency the Governor”. “Please accept the assurances of the warmest regards of His Excellency, the Governor. Office of Chief of Staff to Delta State Governor”.