ABUJA – The Universal Basic Education Commission UBEC has set aside N3.6billion for the construction of smart schools across the six geo-political zones of the country. The “Smart Schools” have been designed in categories to boost the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) for teaching and learning with an estimated cost of N350 million per school for the state model. That of the zonal model schools with more capacity and ICT infrastructure would cost 600 million to serve each of the six geopolitical zones in the country. SBMC: 1147 Communities Shortlisted As Beneficiaries For… Billions Spent On Basic Education Intervention In States Not… The Executive Secretary, Dr Hamid Bobboyi made the disclosure at the groundbreaking ceremony, which held in Jigawa state. Bobboyi said the initiative was informed by the impact of the Covid 19 pandemic which lead to the lockdown of the country and the closure of schools for nearly a year. He explained that during the period of COVID-19 lockdown, learners all over the country were at home and not learning because the face-to-face learning approach is the primary mode of delivering content to learners. The ES said, it is necessary to prepare for any situation that could arise to disrupt the teaching and learning process. He stressed that digital and e-learning platforms provide opportunities for both teachers and learners without the constraint of time and space. POLL He explained that it is expected thatdeployment of technology for instructional delivery would significantly increase the quality of basic education indeed the Nations learning outcomes. He explained that UBEC Smart Schools are currently at the completion stages, the plan is that before the end of this year most, if not all would commence academic activities. “It is my expectation that the standard we are jointly setting up would be sustained and improved upon so as to meet the schools objectives”, he said. He specifically thanked Governor Mohammed Badaru not only for the prompt response for land for the project but also granting UBEC permission to organize the groundbreaking ceremony.