IBADAN – The Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ali has warned against uncontrolled attack against officers of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in Ibarapa area of Oyo State. The Comptroller General who was ably represented at the Town Hall Meeting by the Oyo/Osun Area Command Comptroller Customs, Comptroller Adamu Abdulkadir in Eruwa said the meeting became necessary as a result of incessant attacks on officers and men of the Nigeria customs service by Youths and other groups in Ibarapa axis while discharging their constitutional duties. The town hall meeting which was attended by traditional rulers, Local Government Chairmen, religion leaders, representatives of the youths and other stakeholders in Ibarapa area, as issues bothering on safety of customs officers and residents of the community were extensively delibrated upon. Olubadan: Oyo CP Mourns Olubadan, Assures Residents Of… Ngelshengele Farming Community Get Succor From Buni In his words, NCS Boss Commiserated with the community leaders over the demise of Asiganga, stressed that the NCS would continue to operate within the ambit of the law that established the service. The Comptroller General, Nigeria Customs Service, Hameed Ali decried the incessant attack on his men by residents of Ibarapa adding that the service would no longer tolerate such. He said, “Our core job is to generate revenue and curtail smuggling, we are being guided by relevant laws which is enshrined in cema of 1958 especially section 11.Which gives officers to go around for legitimate assignment without any restrictions. If you indulge in illegitimate business, customs officers are empower to condemned and seize such items. He said the law empower customs to seize any unlawful goods. There are laws which allow us to enter any premises without any warrant to check your premises if there is need for such. “The law allow us to patrol freely, the penalty for interfering with the duty of customs office is death. Custom is not happy with lost of lives, especially in this axis and your subjects has constitute themselves to an institution to do and undo not minding that the officers you see here are empower to use the weapon to protect themselves but we are mindful of the innocent people. Please talk to your people, don’t test the will of this people. Any further attack on this officers will be viewed seriously, please caution your subjects. They should engage in legitimate business. The Federal Government has rolled out some palliatives which they should key into instead of smuggling.” He urged the people Ibarapa to desist from smuggling saying anyone caught will be dealt with accroding to the law. Our job is to curtail smuggling, there are so many windows today that people can key into, we are here to reduce collateral damage to our economy. We are well groomed to do our job and nobody should dare our officers and our boss said he would not be happy seeing his men being molested. Please tell them to have a change of heart as I was sent here to plead with you to talk to your men. We are not to be seen as enemies but as officers of the law.” POLL He said, series of incidences had happened between my men and your people, especially the recent attack on officers. He urged the residents to refrain from such attack and that any further attack on personnel would be view vigorously as an assualt and be dealt with.” “There are several provisions in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that cover the operation of officers of the service. He urged the people of the area to see his men as officers of the law with the responsibilities of generating revenue for the government, curtail smuggling and provide security for the people.” Ali said. Ali however called for the support of the people while he enjoined them to continue to support his men with intelligent informations that will aid their operations. During the last ileya festival our men were attacked and matcheted along Igbo ora axis although some people lost their lives during the incident but we regret this. Also two weeks ago, our men were stacked by the village youth with dangerous weapons. In Nigeria today we have so many job to do, first to collect revenue, we are set up to stem the tide of anti smuggling and of recent, we have been saddle with the responsibility of providing security for the people following the onslaught of Boko Haram. Ali said. 8 Die In Bayelsa Boat Accident FRSC Says Defaulters Of Speed Limit Devices Won’t Be Tolerated… In his Response, the Chairman of Ibarapa East Local Government, Hon. Gbenga Obalowo commended the Comptroller General of Customs for the initiative of the town hall meeting, but charged officers of the command to conduct their affairs in line with the dictate of the law. Hon. Gbenga Obalowo and other hosting traditional rulers at the meeting promised their supports and that of their subjects for the NCS, while they called for better relationship between the service and residents. Hon. Obalowo said, “We got your message but by the time you are trying to carry out your obligations, there might be some resistance from the those working against the law, we want to plead with you to appeal to your men to do their job diligently. Because of the insecurity challenges the country is currently facing.” “The Customs officers should be duly identified because bandits herdsmen are now using Military uniforms to perpetrate their evil act, how do we identified them? There should be proper identification due to the state of insecurity.” “They should apply maturity in all their operations, they should not behave like touts they should operate within the ambit of the law. We want to assure you of our support and cooperation. We are ready to support you, we will protect your people whenever they are here.” Obalowo said.