A bridge in the US city of Pittsburgh has collapsed with six vehicles, including a bus, on it at the time. No deaths have been reported. Officials said 10 people sustained minor injuries, three of whom were taken to hospital. The snow-covered Forbes Avenue Bridge gave way on Friday morning, sometime after 06:00 local time (11:00 GMT). Ukrainian President Downplays Talk Of Russian Invasion NUGA Games: Makinde Hosts UNILAG VC, Others, Promises Support The collapse happened just hours before President Joe Biden visited the area to talk about infrastructure. Fire Chief Darryl Jones said first responders used ropes longer than 100 feet and formed human chains to pull victims to safety. Search dogs and drones were also spotted on the scene. A nearby resident told the KDKA-TV local news channel that the incident “sounded like a huge snow plow… pushing along the surface with no snow”. Residents have been asked to avoid the area after public safety officials confirmed they had to shut off a leaking gas line that goes under the bridge. A strong smell of natural gas is being reported in the area. It remains unclear what caused the city-owned bridge to cave in. Pittsburgh Mayor Ed Gainey said it had been inspected as recently as September, but a 2019 assessment revealed its structure was deteriorating. POLL The steel bridge, built in 1970, is a common route for motorists into downtown Pittsburgh. Federal transportation officials say about 45,000 US bridges – including more than 3,000 in Pennsylvania – are in poor condition. In November, President Biden signed legislation into law that includes $110bn (£82bn) to repair and rebuild roads and bridges. On Friday, Mr Biden travelled to visit the fallen bridge ahead of a pre-planned speech in West Mifflin, about 10 miles (16km) outside of Pittsburgh, to tout the benefits of the funding. “I didn’t realise there are more bridges in Pittsburgh than in any other city,” said the president, who was born in Pennsylvania. “We are going to fix them all. That’s not a joke.” Oil Set For 6th Straight Weekly Gain Amid Tightening Supply Gov Emmanuel Wants Former Aspirants To Support Ekiti PDP… The American Society of Civil Engineers, which regularly scores US infrastructure on an A to F report card, currently gives the country a C- grade. (SOURCE: BBC)