To mark the 30th-anniver­sary of the creation of the area, Chairman, Ini Local Government Council of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Isra­el Idaisin has empowered 15 constituents with mini buses. The council boss, at the event held at the Council Secretariat in Odoro Ikpe, also distributed over 500 bags of rice, cash grants to other constituents cutting across men, Women, youths as well as staff of the LGA. Addressing the occasion, Idaisin who acknowledged God’s benevolence on Ini and her people said it became nec­essary to use the epoch-mak­ing event to honour and re­ward the citizens who have achieved outstandingly in their different walks of life. Barber Stabs Motorcyclist To Death In Bayelsa Novena University College Of Law Commences LL.B Degree… The celebration, Idaisin said, also aimed at empower­ing loyal political supporters for their contributions in en­suring the political machinery in Ini LGA was not clogged by any form of challenges. “Indeed our beloved Ini Lo­cal government area is 30years old today. I thank you all for be­lieving in my administration and the leadership of Gover­nor Udom Emmanuel. “Let me specially com­mend our efforts and contri­butions no matter how little towards ensuring that Ini LGA enjoys absolute peace, progress, tranquillity and safety of lives and property, as well as government and private sector investments in our various communities” The Council boss identified some of the life-transform­ing projects recorded so far under his tenure to include provision of portable water, Construction of Civic centre at Ikot Ekiko, construction of classroom blocks at Primary School, Ikot Udo Asan. He listed others to include; the renovation of the Council buildings to befit the status of a Council Secretariat, consis­tent grading of feeder roads across all the eleven wards in the LGA, ongoing construc­tion of modern motor park, payment of Bursary to all Ini Local government indigenes, in all the tertiary institutions among others. POLL “As our tradition, we will witness today life-touching empowerment aimed at lift­ing 15 families out of poverty by giving them minibuses.