All arrangements have been concluded for the 2022 edition of the Oodua Progressives Union (OPU) annual World Congress in Kabba, Kogi State. The two-day programme organized by the diaspora organization is slated between Friday, January 28 and Saturday, January 29 at Jonny Hotel Hall, Okene Road, Obajana, Junction, Kabba, Kogi state. In a statement released by the Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Kehinde Aderemi said the annual congress is the 8th edition. 2023: Christian Group Pledges Support To Bello, Calls Him Man Of… Kabba Chaos: Gov. Bello Directs Investigation, Calls For Calm The congress, according to him, had been held in all the states in the Southwest, including Lagos state, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Oyo town, Oyo State, Abeokuta, Ogun State, Akure, Ondo State, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and Offa in Kwara State. Aareonakafo of Yoruba land, who is also the global Convener of OPU, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, said the world congress offers a great opportunity for the delegates to visit Nigeria after spending many years abroad. It will also help them to know more about all the states that had played host to the OPU in the previous congresses. “For instance, Kogi state is located at the extreme end of Yoruba land. About 30 or 35 percent of the Okun people of Kabba town are Yoruba. “As a result, this year’s congress will really help in extending our frontiers beyond the southwest. We have been to all the states in the Southwest, including Kwara but now, Kogi is our next destination. That is the reason for this congress. It will also help to encourage many of our members to come back home and make a remarkable impact in the area of nation-building”. POLL Iba Adams added also that the delegates of the diaspora group will pay courtesy visits to the Kogi state governor and the royal father of Kabba, stating that the visits are part of the programme lined up to make the  congress a success. “Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello will also be at the event, the Obaaro of Kabba, Oba Oladele Awoniyi is the royal father of the day, Dr Oluwayomi Atte is the guest lecturer and Chairman Ijumu Local Government, Alhaji Taufiq Isa and other dignitaries are expected at the programme. “Also the Okun Development Union (ODU) members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and other eminent Nigerians will also grace the event”. The congress with the theme: “A strategic Approach to Fulfilling the Destiny of Yoruba Race: The way Forward” is focused at raising issues on the best approach to actualize the dreams of the Yoruba race. “Other activities for the programme include the inauguration of community borehole in Kabba, free health services including eye test, treatment for other sundry health-related ailments, presentation of wheelchairs to the aged and physically challenged people as well as empowerment programmes for the needy. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello 2023 Presidency: 600 Women Groups To Stage… “We are expecting delegates and members of OPU from all the 96 countries across the six continents of the world.And the two-day event will feature a courtesy visit to the governor of Kogi state and the royal father, inauguration of borehole for the people, free health facilities and climaxing with the presentation of awards to some members and a dinner party where all participants will wine and dine together”.