But before shining more light on Akinyemi’s remarkable accomplishments as a colossus in international affairs , astute public servant and purpose driven leader of high integrity , allow me digress a bit by highlighting the disconcerting state of affairs in our country arising from lack of a broad world view by our current leaders culminating in the mismanagement of our diversity. That is sadly the reason that our country is now mentioned in the same breathe with failed countries like Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria either for the rising tide of terrorism or listed alongside Libya, Sudan, Mali and Ethiopia notorious for violence driven by the struggle by aggrieved members of the country seeking to be separated to form their own countries due to religious intolerance or ethnic rivalry between the multiple ethnic nationalities that constitute the country. Despite the magnitude of corruption that is endemic in public service Bolaji Akinyemi,having been sired by a clergyman and educationist , Reverend James Akinyemi is an epitome of integrity. Hence, although he served in premium roles in government, he has no real estate assets like mansions in highbrow neighbourhoods of Ikoyi, Lagos or Maitama, Abuja. Instead, he dwells in a modest home, not on the lsland as most public servants of his calibre who attained the level of cabinet minister, are likely to, but in the mainland of Lagos. Compare him to the obscene situation whereby the immediate past petroleum resources minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke has been indicted for frittering away billions of oil money, some of which was used to acquire an obscene collection of jewelries and personal accoutrements that got seized and which would make Imelda Marcus (Philippines infamous First Lady who acquired 3,000 pairs of shoes) green with envy. How Not To Treat An Ex-Convict Ganduje, The Most Beautiful Bride For VP And even consider the case of Abdulrasheed Maina, a pension funds task force chairman assigned with the duty of recovering looted pension funds running into trillions of naira , which he re-looted and anti-graft agencies uncovered and jailed him. The negative effect of the heist by the pension funds looter, the compromised former minister of petroleum resources and other corrupt public and civil servants may be adversely impacting the likes of professor Akinyemi who may not be regularly receiving their pension dues as retired public servants that served without blemish. The above assertion is underscored by the fact that with the legendary irregular payment of pensioners dues which is the dishonourable trademark of our government , honest retirees such as professor Akinyemi who did not dip their hands into public treasury to create personal retirement benefits for themselves by engaging in corrupt practises, may be in jeopardy. One lesson that l have learnt from the story of professor Bolaji Akinyemi is that: military regimes did a better job picking appointees for technocratic posts than politicians simply because they were adept at casting their nets far and wide to find Nigerians with the best fit for the roles as Ministers and Directors General of Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs. And they did a good job hence a positive image of our country soared even if it was under military dictatorship. The assertion above is validated by the fact that it was under military regimes that we had the likes of indubitable Professor Akinyemi leading foreign affairs ministry, the erudite professor Olikoye Ransome-Kuti heading the health ministry and outstanding professor Babatunde Fafunwa being in charge of education ministry. All of them were round pegs in round holes at different points in time under the watch of the military. Apparently and understandably, our political leaders are unable to achieve such a high level of professionalism in appointments to strategic public offices owing largely to the need to be partisan by rewarding those who were in the trenches with them during elections and thus helped them to prevail over their opponents. POLL In my view, there is a need to strike a balance between professional politicians and professionals in politics in choosing various heads of MDAs in order to deliver on campaign promises made when seeking to be elected. On a personal note, Professor Akinyemi is my intellectual role model. It was he who influenced me, without his knowing it, to pursue a master’s degree program in Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy because as a young impressionable man, l longed to plant my feet, career wise. After my academic pursuit in Fletcher, l had also planned to build on it by attending the University of Oxford for a doctoral degree as professor Akinyemi had done by obtaining his doctor of philosophy degree, PhD from Trinity College, Oxford. Having applied and was considered suitable by the authorities in the university of Oxford for the academic pursuit, l was torn between remaining in the political arena to harness the reward of my role in the emergence of late Umar Yar’Adua as president in 2007, and sacrificing my ambition of obtaining a PhD from the university of Oxford as professor Akinyemi had done. Regrettably, I opted for the former and lost the latter. Since then, as the conventional wisdom goes, a lot of water has passed under the bridge. The Abundance Of Inanities In Nigeria Effervescent Bolaji Akinyemi At 80: They Don’t Come This Good… It was Eleanor Roosevelt that once stated that “If life were predictable it would cease to be life, and be without flavour.” Professor Bolaji Akinyemi is not only an intellectual role model, but also a style icon. He popularised bow tie wearing on a daily basis as opposed to wearing it only to weddings, for ballroom dances or other special occasions. As I watched him on television, l got so enamoured and sucked in by his bow tie so much so that when I became a banker, l developed the knack for also spotting bow ties even to work on a daily basis. But my obsession with bow ties was scuttled by an overzealous executive director in the bank where l was working then, and who banned, with military alacrity, my wearing of bow ties to work as a banker. Readers can now figure out who influenced me to the extent that the most popular photo of me that accompanies my published essays and book is the one where l am spotting a bow tie. It is in the bid to permanently hold on to the memory of professor Bolaji Akinyemi, my intellectual mentor, that l had the privilege of having him write the forward for my soon to be released book: “Becoming The President of Nigeria. A Citizen’s Guide”. In conclusion, l would like the world to join me in wishing the effervescent foreign policy leadership icon, a maestro in political science, an administrator per excellence and octogenarian who turned 80 on December 4, 2022, Bolaji Akinwande Akinyemi a very happy 80th birthday anniversary. Concluded Onyibe, an entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.