Distribution Companies (DisCos) have stated that they take ownership of electricity infrastructure purchased by individuals and communities to ensure subsequent repairs and safety of equipment. The Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), which disclosed at recent stakeholders meetings told Daily Independent that since the DisCos take responsibility for any incident that happens to those infrastructures, there was need for indemnity and safety. “It is important for Nigerians to understand that DisCos have a responsibility to ensure that only good quality equipment duly certified by Nigerian Electricity Management and Safety Agency (NEMSA) are installed in our network,” spokesperson for the association, Sunday Oduntan, said. Power Generation Companies Paid 50% Of Total Invoice – Industry… With 40MW Power Plant Operational, Investors Scramble For Space… According to him, the equipment, after being installed, needed to be fully protected by the utility companies. Oduntan said there had been occasions where transformers that were installed in the days of PHCN, for instance in Lugbe, Abuja, caused electrocution, stressing that there was need for protection, ensuring that access is only granted to qualified personnel. “People have lost their lives because they were trying to maintain their transformers. This is why we ask customers to write a letter of donation to the DisCos. If the items do not belong to the DisCos, they cannot exercise any right over the use of the items, nor should they bear liability for any incident that occurs thereafter,” he noted. He noted that it remained the responsibility of the DisCos to make electricity infrastructure available, adding however that in situations where the demand is far more than supply due to shortage of funds, customers do step in to help their communities. “Since privatisation, our members have invested considerably on improvements in their networks since 2013. POLL “However, in a reality where the absence of infrastructure was excruciatingly acute across the length and breadth of this country before this phase of our power reforms, and considering the huge cost of revamping inherited networks as well as the very critical need for power supply for homes and businesses, it is understandable when communities of customers decide to step in rather than take the option of waiting till resources needed to service their needs are appropriated by their respective DisCos. “The issue of community volunteering is very clearly stipulated by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). For those who follow NERC’s laid guidelines, there will be no argument at the end of the day,” Oduntan said. He also said accusations surrounding disconnections and reconnection fees charged by Discos were unfair, saying disconnection is a legitimate recourse available to the service providers under certain conditions and the reconnection fee is a penalty to dissuade repeat offenders and cover cost,” Oduntan said. It would be recalled that the Federal Government, recently attributed the prevailing epileptic power supply in the country to neglect by past authorities that paid scanty attention to the development of the sector. Abubakar Aliyu, Minister of Power, made the assertion at the end of the extraordinary meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the presidential villa, Abuja. Delta To Birth New Act On Power Generation, Transmission,… Ondo Moves Against Connection Hitches, Threatens Legal Action… The minister, who presented 16 memos from his ministry and got council approval for all, said the present administration had done more than previous governments to ensure that Nigerians began to enjoy improved power supply. He explained that the government was doing a lot to remedy the situation with more investments in the sector in order to reverse the system collapse being witnessed in the country. While noting that the government has placed order for power equipment, the minister assured that Nigerians will in no distant time, begin to witness the outcome of the ongoing investments. Aliyu maintained that the present power generation in the country is about 5,000MW, just as he decried what he described as the weak transmission grid. Speaking on the memo he presented, Aliyu stated: “Today, I presented to the council 16 memos. Let me say what these approvals will do to the nation’s electricity supply.