IBADAN – A member of the Federal House of Representatives from Iseyin / Itesiwaju /Kajola /Iwajowa federal constituency, Oyo state, Honourable Shina Peller, has charged all Nigerians home and abroad to let their thoughts, utterances and actions in the year 2022 be driven by love and peace. Peller, who also doubles as the Ayedero of Yorubaland, made this call in his new year message made available to the press on Saturday 1st January 2022, where he listed love, unity and peace as a prerequisite for progress and national development. In the same vein, the federal legislator explained that for peace to reign in any given society, there is a need for all to embrace love, unity, fairness and justice in their dealings with one another. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… “To achieve peace, love must first prevail,” he said. Furthermore, Peller observed that the year 2022 presents to all a golden opportunity to hold conversations targeted at correcting the leadership deficit in Nigeria. Similarly, he enjoined all to devote their time and resources towards making Nigeria better, adding that one of the ways to achieve this is to get involved in the political process that determines the country’s leaders. He added that the best way to do so is for all to arm themselves with the basic tools needed to elect genuine leaders in 2023. According to him, the basic tools are their PVCs and party membership cards. According to the statement, “The New year presents a fresh opportunity to practice love and peace, for it costs everyone nothing to do so. To achieve peace, love must first prevail. POLL “Love and peace are the essentials that we need to foster unity amongst us. The past years showed that it was lacking in our society therefore, it is my dream to see Nigeria on the right trajectory. “The year 2022, affords us the chance to hold conversations aimed at correcting the leadership deficit in our dear country. “As we make new year resolutions, let’s take out time to think of Nigeria and how best we can make the country better. “In this new year, I have resolved to spare my limited time only with those who have their permanent voters card and those who are members of political parties because they are citizens who care about their country. “I have resolved not to waste my time engaging in fruitless discussions with those who do not have what it takes to make their voices heard; those who haven’t armed themselves with the basic tools to elect genuine leaders in 2023. God Has Destined Ekiti To Move Forward In 2022 – Adesokan New Year: Support Buhari To End Banditry, Kidnappings, Oba Alabi… “In 2022, for us to be friends or continue to be friends, kindly get your PVC and political party membership card. “We must come together as a community of forward-thinkers to set an agenda ahead of the general election. We must stir up the waters of dialogue, douse unhealthy tension and work for the common good of Nigeria. “Let love and peace reign in Nigeria! Happy New Year.”