IBADAN – A governorship aspirant under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos state, Engr. Rasheed Teslim Balogun has paid a courtesy visit to the party leaders in the southwest, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja and Hon. Soji Adagunodo, in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital. As he expressed optimism in the party ability to defeat the All Progressive Congress (APC) massively across southwest in the 2023 general elections. During the visit Balogun pledged his unalloyed loyalty to the party, also promised to work with the southwest leaders to ensure that PDP reclaims other states in southwest. NSCDC Averts Clash Between Hausa, Yoruba in Kwara Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi He insisted that the party will send APC packing in Lagos in the coming elections. According to him, “I came on solidarity visit to our leaders in the southwest with the assurances that our party, the Peoples Democratic Party will reclaim the southwest, and trounce APC in Lagos in the next elections. “I want to also assure our esteemed leaders of  my support in ensuring  unity within the ranks of the party. It is my hope that PDP will come out stronger and better in future elections. “The most important thing for us is to work in harmony and forget any rancour. I promise to make sure that peace reigns supreme in PDP family in Lagos”. Responding, Amb. Arapaja, who is the Deputy National Chairman of the PDP applauded his efforts, saying Engr.Balogun had, from his attitudes, demonstrated unique qualities that is expected of a grassroots politician. POLL He noted also that the Lagos state governorship hopeful has all that it takes to rescue Lagos state from long years of political misfortunes occasioned by the ‘one- man show’ of Lagos politics. Meanwhile, Hon Adagunodo in his remarks, expressed appreciation at the visit, saying the party leaders would ensure that all aspirants of the party would have a free and fair primaries across the state. The PDP chieftain, however, urged Engr. Balogun to make sure lasting peace returns to PDP in  Lagos, so that the dream of winning the state would be achieved. “PDP is one big family, and nothing is impossible, that is why we all need to come together as one big family to ensure that our party wins the 2003 elections with landslide margin”. Part of the team that visited the PDP leaders included Balogun’s wife, Mrs Omokehinde Teslim- Balogun, Hon Rotimi Kujore, Prince Bosun Abiola, Hon Mrs Tolu Akinwonmi and Chief Akiwowo among others.