BluePeak Private Capital, an alternative asset management firm with a strong focus on Africa, has announced its investment in Grit Real Estate Income Group Limited, a breakthrough pan–African real estate company. The investment operationalises Grit’s development plan to boost industrial and health facilities in East Africa – improving access to essential goods and quality healthcare. London Stock Exchange-listed Grit invests in and actively manages a diversified portfolio of high-quality assets across the continent. Founded in 2014 by Bronwyn Knight, Grit’s portfolio comprises 54 investments across more than eight countries and five asset classes. H12022: Guinness Nigeria Maintains Double Digit Growth, Posts… Lafarge Wins 2021 IoD’s Corporate Governance Award BluePeak partnered with Ethos Mezzanine Partners, to jointly invest $31.5 million in Grit in a transaction led by Ethos Mezzanine Partners. The transaction marks the inaugural investment from the BluePeak Private Capital Fund SCSp (the Fund), an impact-linked private credit and mezzanine finance facility raised during the COVID-19 pandemic. BluePeak designs innovative financing solutions to scale mid-sized African businesses. The Fund reached first close at $115 million in September 2021 and is targeting a final close of $200 million later this year, with a hard cap of $250 million. It provides vital growth capital to non-cyclical, growing firms, enabling them to accelerate innovation and transformation strategies and emerge from the pandemic stronger and more resilient. BluePeak’s expertise in structuring allows the team to offer a range of bespoke debt instruments, including mezzanine finance, preferred equity, convertibles, and senior debt. Investments are designed to maximise participation and impact for women and marginalised groups and targeted to sectors which directly uplift quality of life for millions of people. Proceeds from the Fund’s inaugural investment into Grit will be deployed to partially fund the acquisition (on a sale and leaseback basis), restoration and expansion of a prominent warehousing and manufacturing facility in Nairobi by Orbit Africa. POLL Orbit is a pioneering manufacturer of personal and home care hygiene products in the East African region. The total purchase, refurbishment, and expansion cost of $53.6 million is actualised by a $25 million senior debt structure backed by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, and $28.6 million through the investment provided by BluePeak and Ethos.