Disturbed by the corruption level in present-day Nigeria, former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (rtd) has said that compared to what was going on now, they were saints during his military regime. Babangida spoke in an interview with Trust TV monitored by journalists on Sunday. He said, “I gave an example I sacked a governor because of misappropriating N300,000. Now there are people we read in the papers, thank God there are papers to read and social media and so on; people who steal N2billion, N3billion and nobody is saying they are corrupt only us because we are military that is all. I still maintain that we are saints if you compare somebody who is accused of stealing N3 billion compare him against somebody with N300,000 then I think we are saints.” A’Ibom Metering Factory Will End Billing Challenges – Osinbajo On why the battle against corruption was so difficult, he said “I sold an idea but because it came from me, nobody likes it, nobody will like to hear it: Identify areas of corruption and attack them from the source. I read in one of the newspapers where a judge was complaining that they are not well remunerated by the public and that is a sure source of corruption.” “Wherever you have a system where you have a lot of control there will be corruption. So what we try to do, we got government not to be involved in things like production; anything to do with I have to come to you and you will always think you are doing me a favour, so maybe I should reciprocate it, that is the sort of thing.” “And that is why we introduced freeing the economy; you don’t need a license to be graded Grade A your groundnut or cocoa or cotton or whatever it is; you don’t need to go to Central Bank or to go to banks to get foreign exchange.” “There are Bureau de Change, they set it up in market areas, where you can easily go and get it; so the sources of corruption has to be identified and attacked,” he said. The Minna-born General recalled that his economic policy of liberalization and government stepping back from the economy; were emulated by Yar’Adua and Obasanjo. POLL He said they did and the current regime was also doing it even though in a different name. ” But it is all the same concept,” he said. Talking about which of his economic policies he is most proud of and that he would wish that could be continued by governments that have followed? “Freeing the economy; allow Nigerians to use their brain, to use their hands, to use their innovation, I think the liberalization is, I am very proud of it? Asked if the consequence of maybe encouraging corruption and people taking advantage and becoming rich at the expense of the poor because that is one of the complaints which brought the IMF, it brought a reduction in social welfare programmes for the poor people, he said “Well, I think this sort of debate is still on even today in countries like the United States. They couldn’t pass a budget because of the direction that people who believe that the ceiling should not be imposed. “In our own case we do a lot of borrowing, there is a lot of debate going in the country now about whether we are over-borrowing or we are under borrowing and so on and so forth; it all depends. “But that makes the government to sit down properly to do the right thing once you know that there are people in the society who will say no, you are wrong, why don’t you do it this way, there is always an alternative solution to this. “So I think it is an ongoing thing as far as I am concerned, it will continue throughout in the next 50 years, 100 years there will still be talk about corruption, about how to minimize it, you can’t just wipe it out 100%, you can minimize it, to an acceptable level. Asked about how often the present government seek his advice or contribution he said, “Not much and they are right for not because the Nigerian society, I know the Nigerian psyche, they will accuse the government for talking to me on anything and they wouldn’t like to be accused, so the best thing is keep him at distance. Commenting on why a former head of state, who has a record of living for a long time and dealing with so many problems, not being able to make an input or being blamed for making an input, Babangida replied that, “The good thing about Nigerians, I happen to know them reasonably well. They assess you based on a wrong perception, most of the time. If you say Babangida is a thief, the first thing Nigerian will do is to believe it and he doesn’t care whether you are going to explain or something. He believes what somebody else said, he doesn’t have facts, he will not accept even your own explanation, his reason is if you say he is a thief, he says yes, yesterday I saw him in a Mercedes, I saw him in a good car therefore he is a thief. They have a shallow thinking all the time. Asked how involved he is in the general politics in the country, or if he has retired like President Obasanjo, he said, “Yes I have; not involved in politics but still interested in what is happening in politics because this is my country I don’t have any other country, I have to take interest in what is going on.