. Says 2020/2021 Training Will Commence 10th January, 2022 ABUJA – The Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba has said, his vision is to ensure that the Police “deviate” from the old-fashioned standard of training that “dehumanizes the Recruits” and turn them into “hostile security” personnel. The IGP also noted that their plan is to “emplace a new training regime that must impart the virtues of professionalism, knowledge, discipline, confidence and critical decision-making potentials in the recruits. He stated this on Wednesday, at the Goodluck Jonathan Peacekeeping Hall, Force Headquarters, Abuja during his meeting with Commandants of Nigeria Police Colleges and Training Schools. The IGP disclosed that, the recruit training for the 2020/2021 Phase of the Nigeria Police Recruitment exercise will commence on the 10th January, 2022. According to him, “It will hold in the four Premier Police Colleges in Lagos, Kaduna, Maiduguri and Orji River, as well as 12 other Police Training Institutions spread across the country.” He said, “Our vision is to ensure that the upcoming training is fit-for-purpose and must deviate from the old-fashioned standard that dehumanizes the recruits in a manner that turns them to hostile security servants to members of the public that they were recruited to serve. POLL “Our plan is to emplace a new training regime that must impart the virtues of professionalism, knowledge, discipline, confidence and critical decision-making potentials in the recruits. “This is with the outcome of ensuring that they are trained appropriately and humanely enough to advance my agenda of ‘policing with courage and serving with compassion.” The IGP however, stressed the need for quality manpower, which he said is even more essential for an institution as critical to national security as the Nigeria Police. Adding that, “The responsibility for this process falls squarely on the knowledge, patriotism, sense of dedication and discipline of Commandants and other instructors of the Police Training Institutions where the basic training of our recruit Constables will hold. “The import of this is that all eyes of the Force and that of the entire citizens of the country at large will, over the next few months of the training, be on you and your respective Instructors. “The need for quality manpower is even more essential for an institution as critical to national security as the Nigeria Police and the responsibility for this process falls squarely on the knowledge, patriotism, sense of dedication and discipline of Commandants and other instructors of the Police Training Institutions where the basic training of our recruit Constables will hold. “Accordinfly, as custodians and guidance of the recruits, you are to provide mentorship by displaying high level of ethical standards. This is important because students learn more, although subconsciously, from watching and imbibing the characters and attitudes of their teachers and instructors. “It is for this reason that it is important to drum it up that you must all practice what you would be preaching to the recruits.” The IGP also reminded them of his administration’s zero tolerance to acts of corruption or extortion of any form. According to him, there must be no form of extortion of the recruits by the Directing, Drill Staff or any other staff of the Police Colleges. “Note that the Force Management Team has our ears on the ground and any form of infraction on this directive will be visited with severe sanction and appropriate disciplinary measures.” He assured that, adequate provisions have been made by the Federal Government for the welfare of the recruits and the Staff of the Training Colleges. “You are, however, expected to liaise with the Commissioners of Police in your respective States to ensure that adequate security arrangements are made for the protection of the Colleges. Equally, the training must always comply with the protocols laid down by the Presidential Panel on COVID-19.” In this regard, the IGP said all Staff and recruits must wear face masks and observe social distancing among other measures. This is as he thanked President Muhammadu Buhari immensely for his statesmanship, visionary leadership and firm commitment to the Nigeria Police Reform Agenda “Aside the enhancement of the welfare package across board for personnel of the Force, the sustenance of the recruitment process and prompt appropriation of funds for the exercise have been critical in our drive to address the historic manpower gaps that impact on our ability to optimally attain our policing mandate.” He commended the Minister of Police Affairs and the Chairman and Commissioners of the Police Service Commission for the understanding, cooperation, and unprecedented support to his leadership. He said, “I look forward to leveraging on this positive relationship towards advancing our commonly shared Police reform agenda. I must also, particularly, commend DIG Danmallam Mohammed, the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Training and Development and his Team for their forthrightness and sacrifice which combined to ensure the success of the recruitment process. “As we proceed into the object of this Conference, it is my expectation that we shall engage frankly, and courageously share ideas and experiences that will enrich the training exercise and ensure that pathways towards attaining our projected training outcomes are achieved.”