LAGOS – The African Action Congress (AAC) has lamented the alleged blockage of all means of identification of its National Chairman and former presidential candidate, Comrade Omoyele Sowore by the Federal Government to deny him access to make transactions. The party said the blockage of means of identification was discovered recently after Sowore tried to make some financial transactions for some personal and humanitarian activities. Comrade Femi Adeyeye, the AAC National Publicity Secretary, in a statement made available to Sunday Independent on Saturday, said attempts were also made unsuccessfully on his existing bank account for transactions. AAC Staging A Come-Back To Deliver Nigerians – Sowore Judge Declared Seizure Of Sowore’s Phones By DSS Illegal The action, the party said, excluded his bank account that was frozen for over two years by the State Security Service (SSS), which claimed it was investigating him for terrorism. AAC said: “Time, which is the oxygen that breathes life to all truths, has proven this claim to be not just cheap, but also ridiculous falsehood. “Despite the landmark victory against the DSS on December 21, 2021, the agency is yet to return Sowore’s phones to him and pay him or his lawyers the N2 million damages awarded against them. “We describe all these moves by the evil forces of the regime as illegal and affronts to the rights of Mr Chairman.” The party recalled that ever since the current federal administration unjustly kept Sowore under city arrest in Abuja , it had been one harassment or the other and that a day would not go without what it termed “darts of persecution thrown at him,” adding that the government had continued to squander state resources, just to silence the courageous activist. POLL The AAC stated that since the administration had become shameless, “we in the AAC are ashamed on its behalf, as it has become clear that it will not save itself some dignity, even in the twilight of its infamous exit. “We are not oblivious of the intent of this recent move which is nothing but a smokescreen of further attempts by the clueless regime to unjustly and illegally deny Mr Sowore his citizenship rights, especially the rights to vote and be voted for. “It is no surprise that this is happening as the country prepares for an election year. “We wish to sound this note of warning to the Buhari regime that all attempts to strip Mr Sowore of his citizenship rights will be resisted with full force within the ambit of the law. “In conclusion, we call on the Buhari regime to stop forthwith the persecution of Omoyele Sowore as it is glaring the regime has no case against him and all means of identification and personal effects (phones) be restored to him immediately.”