LAGOS – BUA Foods Plc has announced the receipt of approval for list­ing on the Main Board of The Nigerian Exchange (NGX). BUA Foods, according to a statement, has satisfied the listing requirements of The Exchange and obtained rel­evant regulatory approvals. As a result, BUA Foods is now listed in the consumer goods sector of the Exchange, with the ticker “BUAFoods”. “A total of 18,000,000,000,000 (eighteen billion) shares were admitted to trading, repre­senting the total issued share capital of the Company. Barber Stabs Motorcyclist To Death In Bayelsa Novena University College Of Law Commences LL.B Degree… “The listing by introduc­tion means that the shares of existing BUA Foods’ shareholders have been listed without an additional public sale of shares. Henceforth, all BUA Foods shareholders will be free to trade their shares on the Exchange”. Abdul Samad Rabiu, Chair­man of BUA Group, while com­menting on the listing, said: “I am delighted that yet another member of BUA Group has been listed on the NGX. “This shows our commit­ment to national economic growth and support for the food security drive of the na­tion in alignment with global sustainability goals.” “We appreciate the con­tinued support of our stake­holders; financial advisers, stockbrokers, suppliers, cus­tomers, consumers and mem­bers of staff. In particular, we cherish our host communities with whom we continue to en­trench very strong and mutu­ally beneficial relationships.” Engr. Ayodele Abioye, the Acting Managing Director, BUA Foods, also stated that “the listing today marks a new beginning for a Compa­ny playing a critical role in the FMCG industry, one that’s highly committed to nourish­ing lives with all our product offerings. POLL “The listing resonates with our commitment to sustainable growth as we nourish and enrich the lives of consumers by deliver­ing high-quality products at competitive prices. This listing creates an avenue for everyone to be a part of the success story of BUA Foods and benefit from the growth opportunities ahead.” It would be recalled that for over three decades, the company has maintained an unbroken streak of year-on-year growth, establishing ul­tra-modern production facili­ties across multiple locations. BUA Foods remains a con­sistent leading player in the Food and FMCG industry with a strong reputation for exceeding customers and con­sumers’ expectations with high-quality products.