ABAKALIKI – The Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC), Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha has applauded Governor David Umahi for declaring his intention to run for the office of the president of Nigeria in the forthcoming general elections in 2023. He briefed newsmen in Abakaliki, Ebonyi state capital barely 24 hours after Governor Umahi formally informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his desire to succeed him in office at Asorock Villa, State House, Abuja. At the party’s secretariat in Abakakili Chief Okoro Emegha described Umahi’s intention to run as a bold step, noted that he is confident that Umahi’s presidency will bring massive infrastructural development and economic prosperity to the Nigerian Nation and her citizenry considering his monumental achievements both in his private life and as Ebonyi state governor 2023: Why Tinubu Is Bad Product As Next President – Cleric 2023: Wike Urges PDP To Take Advantage Of APC Crisis “Let me inform Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora that Governor Umahi’s decision to join the presidential race is the best thing that has happened to the entire country, Nigeria considering his precedence and genealogy. Just like what he said on Channels TV where he promised toreplicate his Progressive efforts in Ebonyi at the National level. My Governor is not contesting with total obedience to the party’s decision”. “Those who knew Ebonyi state before the coming of Engr. David Umahi can be the judge. Under Umahi, Ebonyi has been transformed and now competes with developed countries. Aside from the roads network across the nooks and crannies of the state, there have been constant streetlighting since he took over the mantle of leadership.” The APC Chairman who also doubles as the Special Security Consultant to the state government said apart from the massive infrastructural development, the administration of Governor Umahi has also brought an appreciable level of peace to the people, thereby making life more meaningful and satisfying. “I, therefore, call on all Nigerians irrespective of ethnicity, belief and other attachments to please, queue into this dream of making the country greater by supporting Umahi to become the next president”.