Retired tennis star Martina Navratilova has blasted a decision by Australian Open organisers to ban T-shirts supporting Chinese player Peng Shuai. Security staff had asked spectators trying to enter the grounds to remove T-shirts saying “Where is Peng Shuai?”. Ms Peng disappeared for weeks after accusing a top Chinese official of sexual misconduct in November. Why Azimuth Is Best NationalJuniors – Capt. Owolabi Australian Open: Nadal ReceivesPreferential Treatment –… She has since re-appeared, but many remain concerned about her wellbeing. Tennis Australia, the or­ganising body behind the Australian Open, said Peng Shuai’s safety remained their “primary concern”, but de­fended their decision to con­fiscate the T-shirt and banner in a statement. “Under our ticket condi­tions of entry, we don’t allow clothing, banners or signs that are commercial or polit­ical,” it said. In a tweet, former world female number one tennis player Navratilova called the decision “pathetic.” French tennis player Nico­las Mahut also chimed in on the incident, suggesting that organisers were bowing to pressure from major corpo­rate Chinese sponsors. POLL Chinese premium liquor company Luzhou Laojiao and mattress firm DeRucci are list­edastwoof theleadingpartners on Australia Open’s website. “What’s going on!? What lack of courage! What if you did not have Chinese spon­sors?” Mr Mahut tweeted. Australia researcher for international rights group Human Rights Watch, So­phie McNeill, called Tennis Australia’s decision “not cool,” and urged other tennis players in the tournament to bring attention to Peng Shuai. The incident also sparked the creation of a Gofundme page that promised to print out more T-shirts after reach­ing its AUD$10,000 (£5,296; $7,179) goal. It is common for interna­tional sport events to have pol­icies on what organisers deem as political statements. Wim­bledon prohibits “any objects or clothing bearing… political statements, objectionable or offensive statements” from the tournament grounds.In November, Ms Peng posted a 1,600-word note on Chinese so­cial media platform Weibo, ac­cusing former Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli of forcing her to have sex with him. Doubts Over Timing Of Djokovic Covid Test BREAKING: Barty Beats Collins To Win First Australian Open Title She then vanished from the public eye, triggering a wave of global concern among the international ten­nis community, fans and hu­man rights groups over her whereabouts. She resurfaced weeks later, and in her first media interview in December following her reappearance, she denied making any accusations of sexual assault and claimed her social media post had faced “a lot of misunderstanding”.