Comrade Osifo Festus, President of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how recent macro-economic policies of government have further exacerbated the economic hardship faced by Nigerians. Excerpts: Please, tell us your take on the economic prospects for Nigerians this year? We are optimistic that the economy prospect for this year will be positive as it witnessed four consecutive quarters of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth since the exit from recession in fourth quarter of 2020. 161 Personnel Of Private Security Company Protest 35 Months… We Would Resist FG Anti-Citizens’ Policies In 2022 -Labour There was a GDP growth of 0.51%, in the first quarter; 5.01% in second quarter; and 4.03% in the third quarter of 2021. These were indications that the economy is on recovery path. We strongly advocate that Government must develop a strong mechanism in tracking how its macroeconomic policies, be it fiscal or monetary, affect the disposable income of individuals and households in the country. But, our Association has noted and sadly so, that most of the recent macro-economic policies of government has further exacerbated the economic hardship faced by our members and Nigerians in general. If this poverty induced policies are not urgently checked and correctional measures put in place, we could assure you that the little shred of hope that the citizens have in the country will fast erode and this could degenerate the already challenging security situation and grossly affect the level of governance. Are you saying that there are lapses that the government must show serious concerns? Yes. Some of the prevailing issues that are affecting the general populace and require urgent attention is the fact that the nation is fast degenerating into a land plagued with hunger as if famine has descended on our beloved Nigerians. POLL We are worried that the purchasing power of the already pauperised disposable income of the citizens has greatly degenerated as the cost of food in the market has gone up astronomically in the last three years. Whereas the astronomically increase in cost of food, wages are at best stagnant and in some cases reduced unilaterally and drastically. This could be attributable to several factors that are not limited to gross devaluation of the Naira against major currencies, displacement of farmers by bandits and terrorist, inconsistent policies of Government. It is unfortunate that to further exacerbate the looming dangers caused by food insecurity, farmers in states such as Benue, Plateau, Katsina, Nasarawa and Taraba cannot readily access their farmlands due to myriads of security challenges occasioned by incompetence and lack of patriotism. It is necessary for the government to secure the farmers and their farmlands this year as aggregate food production by the local farmers is the bedrock on which the systems of our food security rest. Giwa Appointed As Head Jumiapay Nigeria, Promises To Drive… Casualisation Remains Challenge In Nigeria Financial… We also show concern to the high cost of LPG as our Association wishes to further bring to the attention of government the hyper-inflation that has greeted the Liquified Natural Gas (LPG), commonly referred to as cooking gas. It is disheartening to note that the price of refilling 12.5kg cylinder of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (cooking gas) has risen by almost 100% percent over the past one year. This is one singular product that is used by several households in the country. We are worried that most middle to upper class homes, especially in the urban areas, are feeling the pinch. The poorer families are going through harrowing experiences trying to cope, more so as the price of kerosene had long taken flight in addition to being scarce in many places. Despite Nigeria sitting on one of the largest gas reserves in the world, we still depend largely on imported gas. Up to 70 per cent of the gas we consume in the country is imported. Some of the reasons attributable to this skyrocket increment is the devaluation of the Naira against major currencies and the introduction of value added tax of 7.5% on imported gas, increase in the international price of gas. We hereby call on the President to immediately abolish the VAT on gas importation, prevent further slide of the Naira, channel some of the exported gas to domestic use, and provide some form of verifiable palliatives for the lower-class citizens. What is your position on the deregulation of PMS? The history of deregulating the downstream oil sector through gradual or total subsidy removal has engendered intense debates between PENGASSAN, successive Governments, stakeholders, and experts in the oil and gas sector with each claiming that it will guarantee long term stability in product supply and price. And that it will lead to an advance and well-developed economic transformation in the country. PENGASSAN as an Association and a major stakeholder in the industry do not have issues with all the advantages, they claim that deregulations will usher into the economy because we understand the workings within the industry and therefore stand in a pole position on issues that boarder it. While maintaining our support for the full deregulation of the sector, we however reiterate that we will only support a deregulation exercise based on domestic refining and not import dependent. Therefore, effort should be made to increase the pace of the current Refinery rehabilitation and support continuous strengthening of the Naira. We wish to admonish Government at all levels to quickly come together and find urgent solutions in short and long term to the myriad of issues plaguing the Nation to reduce the difficulties faced by the citizens this year. As a labour leader in the oil & gas sector, what is the position of the refineries as far as the PIA is concerned, despite agitations that the refineries should be privatised? We have made it clear before now that the unions, both PENGASSAN and NUPENG are not really at the centre stage on refineries rehabilitation, despite funds put into turnaround maintenance, the refineries were still in the state of comatose. But today, when government started the rehabilitations, the unions insisted that we want to be in the steering committee of the rehabilitations, which was granted. When we started the process, there were some push that we did. For instance, for the Port Harcourt, Nigeria is borrowing $1bn from Afreximbank. We advised that Nigeria should not collect this money and pay into federation account or the CBN that the politicians will have access to the money. We advised that the best way to go was to open an escrow account, while the bank pays into the escrow account; the bank, NNPC and contractors will be signatory. At the end of the day, you will release money to the contractors per milestone. If you have committed 10 per cent of the work breakdown structure, that is the amount that will be released so that the money would be utilised for its purpose. That was what was approved. With our advice, they created the escrow account with the signatories, while Afreximbank will release trunk of it depending on the verifiable milestones. That is one of the things that we ensured is done. On privatising the refineries, this is our take. Firstly, this is a national asset. Over the years, it has not worked because of lots of issues. One of them is the lack of will from the government. If government decides to sell the refineries, Nigeria will be short-changed because many things have been damaged. It will not be in our national interest. We advocated that we should fix the refineries that once they start working, government should divest. They should give 51 per cent shares to private investors and retain 49 per cent, just as it is with the NLNG. This will help because when the refineries are now working, and we are now trying to privatise, Nigeria will make excess money from it. Then on the amount of money spent for turnaround maintenance is the amount on the scope of work. The scope of work is massive. We don’t think that the amount being put into it is wasted with the scope of work; more so because the money will not be made available to the politicians.