Contract rebel Ousmane Dembele has taken aim at the Barcelona hierarchy after it was revealed he has been told to leave the club ‘immediately’. Dembele’s current deal at Camp Nou is due to expire in the summer and talks over a renewal are at an impasse. Despite lengthy negotiations the two parties have been unable to find an agreement, with the winger’s self-admitted lofty wage demands balked at by the Catalan giants. Earlier on Thursday, Barça director Mateu Alemany criticised the player and revealed he would be sold this month, saying it’s clear he ‘doesn’t want to continue’ with the club or be part of head coach Xavi’s long-term project. B2B E-Commerce Makes Logistics Easier For Nigeria’s Informal… 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello “He doesn’t want to be part of our project. We told Dembele he has to leave immediately. We expect Ousmane to be sold before 31 January,” Alemany said. Dembele has now responded to those remarks, vehemently denying that he is not committed to the project at Barcelona and asserting that he is at Xavi’s disposal while he is still under contract, while distancing himself from the negotiations between the club and his agent Moussa Sissoko. In a lengthy statement on social media, he wrote: “It’s been four years since I’ve stopped reading things about myself without ever trying to justify myself. Gossip about me has been piling up for four years. “For four years people have spoken for me, shamefully lied with a single purpose, the intention of harm me. “As of today, it’s over. Starting today, I will answer honestly, without giving in to any kind of blackmail. POLL “I am 24 years old and like every man, I have flaws, imperfections. I have lived through complex moments, injuries, Covid has affected me. “Without the slightest training session, the manager has requested me and I have always complied…without grumbling.” The France international continued: “I forbid anyone to give the impression that I am not involved in the sports project. I forbid anyone to attribute intentions to me that I have never had. I forbid anyone to speak for me or my representative, whom I trust completely. “I’m still under contract, I’m fully involved and at the disposal of my club, my coach, I have always given everything for my colleagues and also for all the partners… it is not now that that is going to change. “I am not a man who cheats and even less a man who has the habit of giving in to blackmail. Pope Benedict XVI Implicated In Report On Sexual Abuse In German… Global Health Advocacy Group Lists Gains Of Sugary Drinks Tax “As you know, there are negotiations. I let my agent handle it, it’s his turf. My field is the ball simply playing football, sharing moments of joy with my teammates and all the members.”