A large European Union flag attached to the Arc de Triomphe in Paris to mark the start of France’s six-month presidency of the bloc has been removed after it drew outrage from far-right and right-wing leaders. French authorities took down the flag from the monument in Paris on Sunday, after rightwing opponents of President Emmanuel Macron accused him of “erasing” French identity. “The government has been forced to remove the EU flag from the Arc de Triomphe, a beautiful patriotic victory at the start of 2022”, Far-right leader Marine Le Pen said on Sunday. Fauci Voices Hope For Return To Normalcy Around February, March Flight Cancellations Continue In First Few Days Of 2022 Junior European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune, who on Friday had said the flag would remain for “several days”, said it had been taken down as planned. “It was scheduled that the flag was to be taken down this Sunday. We hadn’t established an exact time,” Beaune told France Inter radio. The giant blue flag was raised in place of a French flag on New Year’s Eve to mark France’s turn at the rotating presidency of the EU Council, which it will hold for the next six months. The arch, a monument to war dead, and other landmarks including the Eiffel Tower and the Pantheon are also being illuminated with blue lights for the remainder of this week. Beaune, who on Saturday accused Macron’s opponents of “desperately chasing after the sterile controversies of the far right,” also denied any “retreat”. POLL “We embrace Europe, but that doesn’t take anything away from our French identity,” Beaune told France Inter radio. French President Emmanuel Macron, who has yet to say if he will run for re-election in April, defeated Le Pen in a 2017 run-off by 66 to 34 percent. Le Pen was re-elected president of the National Rally (RN) on 4 July 2021 and has formally launched what will be her third attempt at the presidency. Most polls show there will be a rematch between the two in the upcoming presidential election with Macron expected to win again, albeit with a slimmer margin. The first round of the 2022 French presidential election will be held on 10 April 2022 between the two candidates who get the most votes . Britain Makes Omicron Contingency Plans For Hospitals, Schools France Requiring 10-Day Quarantine For Unvaccinated US Travelers A second round runoff will be held two weeks later in the likely event that no candidate receives a majority of the votes in the first round.