ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Admin­istration (FCTA) has warned that all unvaccinated staff would be barred from accessing FCTA premises with effect from Monday, January 17, 2022. This is part of efforts aimed at containing the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 in the na­tion’s capital. This warning was contained in a circular signed by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olu­sade Adesola, and issued on Monday, January 10, 2022. Journalist’s  Home Burnt As Akwa Ibom Fire Service Remains… Okowa Mourns Shonekan The circular was addressed to the Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Develop­ment Authority (FCDA), all Mandate Secretaries, Coordi­nators of AMMC, STDD as well as Heads of all Department and FCTA agencies. Mr. Olusade said the circular was in line with the one issued earlier by the Federal Govern­ment allowing staff on Grade Level 12 and below to resume duty. The circular with reference No. HCSF/3065/Vol.1/107 dat­ed November 26, 2021 also directed that all employees are required to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination or present a negative COVID-19 PCR test result done within 72 hours on a continuous basis as part of measures to curtail the spread of the virus. The circular read in part, “All members of staff are there­fore required to show evidence of COVID-19 vaccination or present a negative COVID-19 PCR test result done within 72 hours, failure of which such members of staff will not be allowed to the office premises commencing from Monday, January 17, 2022.” It added that in view of the fact that FCTA premises are public buildings, all visitors and clients coming to do busi­ness are required to comply with this directive. POLL The permanent secretary also said free vaccination points had been made available in all FCTA premises by the Health and Human Services Secretar­iat (HHSS) to provide opportu­nity for staff and visitors alike to get vaccinated. He, however, warned that persistent non-compliance or refusal by staff to be vaccinated would be treated in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Public Service Rules (PSR). Mr. Olusade explained that in order to ensure strict compliance with this circular, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection & Enforcement in collaboration with the Director of Security Services have been mandated to mount surveillance at all en­try points to prevent violators from gaining access to offices of the FCTA from Monday, next week.