***Open Grazing Land No Longer Available LAGOS – Obong Victor Attah, former Governor of Akwa Ibom State has said that open grazing is archaic, stressing that it is Nigerians rather than the South that need ban on open grazing and as elected leader, President Muhammadu Buhari should do what is good for Nigerians. Attah in an interview on Monday on African Independent Television (AIT) maintained that it is no longer feasible to move animals about, whether it is from the North to North or from the North to South. “The President is elected by the people and his obligation is to do what is good for the people. When Amatekun was formed, the presidency said that it was illegal, but Amatekun is working. What the people need is to stop the trekking of animals across the country, since the conflict arose because two groups are asking for the same thing.  I will use Abuja as an example, not too long ago, Abuja was an open grazing land but today you can hardly find land in Abuja to put up buildings. Open grazing land is no longer available. Modern things come with modernity, so you change when the need arises and that need has come    The former governor maintained that the ban on open grazing is the need for all Nigerians and not just the need of the South. Remembrance: Military Men Make Unquantifiable Sacrifices,… School Resumption: Oyo Govt Not Impressed With Low Turnout “It is difficult for anybody to rubbish the Asaba accord because a consensus is a consensus. I don’t want to sectionalize these things because the fact that the meeting was in Asaba doesn’t mean that it is a regional issue, it is a national issue, somebody has to voice it, somebody has to suggest a solution to it, just because it happened in a particular place doesn’t mean it is regional or sectional,” Attah said. He added, “Just before the Asaba accord Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State came up with a solution, and he is a Northern governor. His position was accepted by Miyetti Allah and even Miyetti Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has adopted the position of the Southern governors, that trekking animals across the country is no longer feasible, doesn’t make sense any more. “The children have to be in school, they have to get proper medical attention. Nomadic education has failed, so you have to put them where those facilities are available, that means cattle ranch. Miyetti came up with the statement that there is about 5 million hectares of grazing reserves to start with before we go to ranching.” “People shouldn’t see it as though it is the South that needs it; it is the entire country that needs it. We have to stop this movement of animals from one area to another, whether it is from the North to the North or from the North to the South. You have no right to trespass on anybody else’s land,” he said.