An educationist and entrepreneurship expert, Prof Gregory Ibe, on New Year Day, announced his intention to contest the governorship election of Abia State in 2023. Prof Ibe, who is the founder and chancellor of one of the best private universities in Nigeria, Gregory University Uturu, Abia State, made the declaration during a consultation meeting with officials of Isuikwuato Local Government Area chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Addressing party members from the 10 Wards of the LGA, Prof Ibe recalled his earlier declaration and subsequent procurement of the statutory expression of interest form in 2014, stating that he was then advised to step down in respect of the party zoning arrangement which favored the emergence of a governor from Abia South Senatorial District. 2023: Tinubu Has Edge Over Osinbajo – Jibrin Kofa 2023: Ebonyi Senator Declares Interest In Governorship Position “You will recall that I was prepared to contest the 2015 governorship election and had already produced a detailed blueprint for the exercise, set up political structures around the state, procured branded vehicles and even purchased the expression of interest form at Wadata Plaza Abuja before I was advised to step down based on the decision of Abia Elders Council to implement the Charter of Equity by zoning governorship to Abia South Senatorial District.“I was subsequently counseled to wait till 2023 when it will be the turn of Abia North,” he said. He further stated that he has since 2015 committed himself to supporting the governments at all levels and the PDP by creating social welfare packages for the people while fine-tuning his blueprint for 2023, asserting without equivocation that he is now more prepared for the crucial race than before. “As a loyal stakeholder of the party, I have since the development of 2014 sustained partnership with the structures of PDP, proactively supported every initiative of the state government as a corporate citizen while building and enlarging capacity to do the party and the people of Abia proud in the office of governor come 2023. “Leveraging my extensive knowledge of political power dynamics, vast background in the world of corporate business, diplomatic skills acquired while consulting with international bodies and relevant experience garnered from being the largest private investor in our state, I consider myself sufficiently prepared by God to run for the seat of Governor of Abia. “Umunnem”, if the politics of 2023 must reflect the lessons learnt from the economic recession, COVID-19 and EndSARS protests, then we need someone who not only comes from the right political zone but a governor that can think outside the box, innovate and reinvent the state. I believe that I ticked all the boxes right. “Having thus declared this intention at my ward today, I will subsequently embark on state-wide consultation visits to enlist the support and partnership of other stakeholders towards actualising the project,” the high chief stated.The Chairman of Achara Mbaugwu Ward 7 Hon. Chief Cyprian Obite congratulated Prof Ibe for his decision to offer himself to serve the state at the highest level of governance. POLL He recalled that “Prof Ibe as a foundation member of the party has continued to offer different levels of assistance to the ward especially at critical times”. He, therefore, promised the partnership of the ward executive in realising the vision. Also speaking the Chairman of the Isuikwuato chapter of PDP, Hon Charles Emenike appreciated Prof Ibe for keeping faith with the party through thick and thin, assuring that his gesture will be reciprocated at the right time. He promised to transmit news about Prof Ibe’s declaration to the party hierarchy. The event which was laced with solidarity songs and prayer sessions was witnessed by officials from the 10 ABSIEC Electoral Wards of Isuikwuato LGA.