LAGOS – A member of the Lower Chamber of the National Assembly, Hon. Mufutau Egberongbe has said Nigerians cannot wait for the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to openly declare his intent to run for the presidency in 2023. Egberongbe, who represents Apapa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, said Monday’s visit of the former Governor of Lagos State to President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock Villa, is an indicator to the fact that he (Tinubu) will not turn down the calls from Nigerians to run for the exalted office. The lawmaker explained that Nigerians who want Tinubu to take over from President Buhari, can no longer wait to hear him declare his intention to contest for 2023 presidency. Nigerians Don’t Want Successor From You, Just Go! PDP Tells… God Will Not Forgive PDP If It Doesn’t Hearken To Cry Of… According to him, “The visit of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to President Muhammadu Buhari has shown that he (Tinubu) is ready to heed the calls of those who want him to be the next president of Nigeria. “He has shown to us his lovers and followers that he is willing to serve us and the country at large. We have been calling on him to run and we have been waiting to hear from him and with what we have seen and hear today, I can confidently say that Asiwaju has agreed to answer our calls and Nigerians are eagerly waiting for that open declaration. “He is the best candidate to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari because he has all that is required to run the nation from wherever President Buhari is going to stop. “Lagos for example is a mini Nigeria and anybody that has governed Lagos successfully, would surely find it easy to govern the Nigerian nation. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu came on board in 1999 and he brought in some financial re-engineering that raised the internally generated revenue of Lagos from million to billion struck. POLL “Even when the federal government of Olusegun Obasanjo held back the money of Lagos State, we were still building roads, paying teachers’ salaries, paying staffs’ salaries, recruiting LASTMA officers, recruiting KAI officers and all sorts of social mechanisms. He has governed Lagos and for someone who has governed a state like Lagos, he is well experienced to govern Nigeria,” Egberongbe added.