ISEGHE AJAYI If you really desire to experience financial independence especially after retirement, then you need to be financially educated to avoid undue heartache. Besides, you can only enhance your financial life better this year if you have knowledge about how to manage and invest your money wisely. How To Advance Your Financial Life This Year You Need To Set Attainable Financial Goals This New Year It is imperative that you try as much as possible to embrace financial literacy particularly if you do not know what investment entails; you can seek the help of a financial advisor to educate you on personal finance if you really crave to make a good headway in your financial future this year. Do you know that financial ignorance does more harm than good to those who have this money but do not know how to multiply it? There is no way they can set their financial goals for the year, let alone making efforts to reach them since they do not know how to go about it. With ignorance, you cannot give what you do not have and experiencing financial freedom may be thorny since you do not know how to make your money work for you the most. Unless you change your financial mindset and seek financial knowledge from Experts before you can enjoy financial independence! That is why financial literacy is very important because it will provide you with the information and skills you really need to have a grasp of your money effectively. POLL What Is Financial Literacy? It simply means having a basic knowledge of finances and a grip on the value of money. It also allows you and others to make intelligent money choices which help in financial decisions. Do you know that without financial literacy, your financial decisions, and the actions you take lack a firm basis for financial success? Also, it is very easy to fall prey to common trap. That is why knowing the rudiments helps you guard yourself and grow your financial wellbeing. The Need To Adhere To Your Christmas Budget Making The Most Of Your Money This Christmas There is nothing you want to do in life that does not cost something but with financial literacy, you are able to get the most out of your money to enable you do more of that thing, which could be your skills or passion that you love doing the most. Financial literacy as a matter of truth should be an utmost priority especially to those who lacks the knowledge on boosting their finances or what is all about. With the role money plays in our daily lives, financial literacy should be a major concern for every individual including student as it may change their perception on how to spend and manage money positively. Financial Literacy however, helps you to enhance your finances in the following areas: Financial Plan A spending plan will help you to manage your money effectively especially in the area of your expenses. It helps you to track money that comes in and goes out. With this, you can have a proper grasp of your money and that is why it is vital to create a budget. It could be monthly, quarterly or yearly depending on the choice of the individual. But, most financial plan are monthly because a large number of people are salary earners and get their pay at the end of the month and as such prefer monthly budget. A monthly budget advises you where you are overspending and the need to cut down your expenses. But then, there is nothing wrong in having a yearly budget as it helps you cover annual and seasonal expenses which invariably helps you to set and reach your goals for increasing your earnings. Once you have a budget in place, you can learn how to build better spending habits to accommodate savings. Debts It is very important to understand how debts can affect your financial life negatively such that becoming financially secured may not be possible. That is why it is critical to know the interest rate of all your loans, understand how interest compounds on them, and how much it would cost you if you do not pay them off. It will also do you good to understand your credit score and know how it is calculated. A credit score is an analysis of how feasible you are to pay back a loan or remain current on monthly payments. Sustaining and paying down your debt will enhance that score and help you keep more of your money. Invest Prudently With financial literacy, you will not allow your money to wallow in your bank account without considering on how to invest or multiply the money. It is also crucial to know that you do not need to study corporate financial statements and shareholder reports to invest in the stock market before you can grow your money. Financial literacy helps you to discuss with professionals especially in the area of investment you are not really familiar with to avoid regrets. Track Your Money/Expenses Financial literacy helps you to live a prudent lifestyle and view it as the best way to experience financial breakthrough or freedom. The easiest way to achieve such is to control your expenses, keeping track of money that goes out and comes in. Being frugal is a vital key, to attain financial set goals as several people have no inkling what their monthly expenses are. That is why it is crucial to track your monthly expenses and in doing so, if you discover your expenses are on the high side particularly when compared with your monthly take-home, there is need to bring it down to enhance savings. It is also essential to track your expenses so that you can measure your progress financially. Moreover, living a frugal lifestyle does not mean you have to be inexpensive; it just means you need to save and invest a large percentage of your income. Retirement Savings Are on Track A final test of financial literacy is having adequate fund saved for retirement, but this does not connote that you must have enough saved to retire right away, only that you are on track to have enough by the time you reach retirement age. Expand You Financial Horizon It is also vital to expand your sources of income just as you have done for your investment portfolios. Remember, both the economy and the employment markets are not as stable as they were some years ago and you need to be prepared if the eventuality such as loss of job occurs. For example, if you have a full-time job, ensure you are into other businesses as not only will they provide you with an extra source of income for savings and debt reduction, it may also form the replacement of the job you may lose in the next downturn. But, if you already have a business, try to diversify into associated sources of income. You may even ponder about creating passive income sources, such as being an investor in a small business that is operated by someone else.