IBADAN – In order to nip in the bud the insecurity in Kogi State, the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams has admonished the governor of the state, Yahaya Bello to key into the initiative of the Southwest Security Network, otherwise known as Operation Amotekun in the state. He maintained that the initiative will assist in reducing the spate of insecurity in the state. Aare Adams made the charge at the weekend in Kabba, Kogi state, at the 8th edition of Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) Conference tagged Kabba 2022. Gani Adams To Nigerians In Diaspora: Shun Negative News, Develop… 2023: APC N’West Legislators Drum Support For Yahaya Bello… The Yorubaland Generalissimo who is the global convener of the diaspora group noted further that though the state is peaceful, but there  is need to beef up the security across the state. According to him, “I urge our amiable governor to replicate the idea of Amotekun in Kogi state. The governor can give the state security outfit any name that suits its purpose.This will help in complementing the efforts of the federal government in securing the state.” He, however, applauded the efforts of the governor in driving the economic fortunes of the state, adding that the OPU congress in Kabba had really helped Nigerians in diaspora to know more about the state. Speaking at the event, the Secretary to the Kogi State Government, Mrs Folashade Ayoade, representing the governor expressed appreciation to Iba Gani Adams for using the OPU platform to create a new bond between Kogi state and the people of the diaspora. She stressed that the Kogi state government will continue to bridge the gap between the North and the Southwest. POLL According to her, “Our amiable governor is a bridge builder and I am sure His Excellency will continue to bridge the gap between the North and the Southwest. “I urge all members of the OPU to be committed to the ideals of the organization and I know our government is always ready to sustain the relationship between the convener, the Aareonakafo and Governor Yahaya Bello.” The guest lecturer, Dr.Oluwayomi Atte, in his lecture, titled”: A strategic Approach to Fulfilling the destiny of Yoruba race: The Way Forward”, said the Yoruba people are people of integrity, very accommodating and worthy of emulation. “Yoruba history and ethos reflected a culture of people that are very enterprising. Yoruba believes in certain principles including that of Omoluabi, Yoruba believes in hard work, Yoruba hardly go to war, and they are very patient people. “Our destiny as a race is for the Yoruba to achieve their goals for the betterment of the people.” 2023: Christian Group Pledges Support To Bello, Calls Him Man Of… Kabba Chaos: Gov. Bello Directs Investigation, Calls For Calm In his remarks, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi, who is the Royal Father of the day, commended, Iba Gani Adams for contributing his quotas to the development of Okun land, and Kogi state in particular. “I want to appreciate the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land for counting Kabba worthy of hosting the OPU World Congress. Aare’s title is the only unifying title that can help to fulfill the destiny of our race”.