OSOGBO – Ahead of the July 16th 2022 governorship election in Osun state, some concern members of the opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have called on the Governorship Screening Appeal Committee of the party to screen out Senator Ademola Adeleke from participating in the forthcoming party primary election for the Governorship based on what they described as irregularities in his credentials. It would be recalled PDP will hold its gubernatorial primary election in March, 2022. The party screening committee headed by former Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Mohammed Adoke, had a few days ago , while submitting the report of the committee to the PDP National Organizing Secretary , Umaru Bature disclosed that the six guber aspirants were cleared and already given the go-ahead to participate in the gubernatorial primary election. 2023 Presidency: Over 600 Women Groups Back Yahaya Bello Aregbesola, Others To Interface On Alma Mata’s Renovation… The six governorshop aspirants cleared are; Hon Sanya Omirin, Senator Ademola Adeleke, Prince Dotun Babayemi, Alhaji Fatahi Akinbade, Mr Dele Adeleke and Dr Akin Ogunbiyi. It would be recalled that four of the nine petitions submitted to the screening and appeal committee were against Senator Ademola Adeleke which bothered on lack of capacity, multiple identities, false information and the existence of too many litigations against his candidacy. Ademola Adeleke, won the PDP gubernatorial ticket and ran on the party’s ticket in 2018. According to the spokesman of the concern members, Akinloye Adeyi in a statement issued alleged that all the documents presented by the former federal lawmaker since 2017 have featured irregularities. They have called for his disqualification citing alleged submission of fake certificates. POLL “The controversy which surrounds the name of Senator Ademola Adeleke especially his academic records has become notorious facts in Osun state today. “We have painstakingly weighed the chances of the Peoples Democratic Party to win the next governorship election in Osun State after waiting for 12 years of ACN/APC maladministration in the state. “We cannot afford to miss this chance again. APC desiring that the PDP should present former Senator Ademola Adeleke wants this done to help its candidate steal the people’s mandate through the back door by relying on the decision made in the PDP & ORS. VS. DEGI-EREMIENYO & ORS. (2020) LPELR-49734 (SC) to have him disqualified. “That the documents presented by former Senator Ademola Adeleke since 2017 have featured severe irregularities as enumerated above which cannot be glossed over, the party must act now , we further implore the committee to scrutinize all documents (Annexure 1-15) attached to this petition. “Therefore, Senator Ademola Adeleke should be disqualified and prevented from participating in the forthcoming gubernatorial primary election in Osun state in the overall interest of the party and Osun state’ the group submitted.