Progressive youths in the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) met in Lagos on Saturday to strategise on how to ensure adequate representation of young people in the new leadership of the party set to emerge at the upcoming national convention.The conference had in attendance young business stakeholders, political aspirants, and other young stakeholders in the government and party system. The conference was tagged the “Pre-festival business meet”.Participants were drafted from the six Southwestern states and Kwara. According to speakers at the conference, the progressive youth vision is to have young people better represented in decision-making structures within the leadership of the party and government. The youths also deliberated on ways to ensure a better deal for young people, regardless of whoever emerges as the presidential candidate of the party. Speaking at the conference, a member of the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, stated that Nigerian youths must look beyond sentiment and divisive factors, and build a strong alliance beyond religion and ethnicity.“The unity of Nigeria and its peace being of greater consequence should guide the actions and decisions of the younger generation towards the achievement of our collective vision. This will strengthen our resolve and make our voices heard. Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… First Female Nigeria Police Officer Appointed Adviser For… “We must not let religion and ethnicity divide us. If truly we want to take over the leadership of this country, there must be a clear vision which everyone must consider as our national priority,” Peller said.Lanre Oyegbola, member of the APC National Youth Lobby Committee and coordinator of the South West Caucus, which organized the event, stated that the initiative was a follow up on outcomes of the APC Progressives Youth Conference, which held in June 2021. “We initiated this platform to mainstream young people in leadership positions in the party and government. This transformative APC Progressives’ Agenda within the context of the national framework is representative of the ethos of progressive youth leadership, youth participation and equitable representation at all levels of elective and appointive positions. This agenda is driven by the APC National Youth Lobby Committee under the leadership of Ismaeel Ahmed,” he said. He further stated that it was crucial for young politicians to establish mutual understanding and a working partnership with their counterparts in the business world. Kabir Aregbesola, also a member of the lobby committee, stated that Nigerian youths must come together to speak with one voice. The objective, he said, will be furthered by the upcoming Progressives Youth Festival slated to hold in Ibadan on February 5. POLL “For us to be part of Nigeria’s political reform, mobilization is key. On Saturday, February 5th 2022, we are bringing 100,000 youths together in Ibadan at Liberty Stadium for the Progressives Youth Festival. This festival is the first ever in the South-West for the youths and by the youths, and the aim is to entertain, empower, and energize,” he said. Speaking earlier, Fatima Kakuri, another member of the lobby committee, stated that efforts made in the last one year have begun to yield fruit, with more young people emerging as party officials at the ward, local government and state congresses. Other progressive youths at the event included the former deputy national youth leader of the APC, Sesan Sobande, Segun Adebayo, an aspirant from Kwara State, Shehu Tijani Adegbola, Osun State APC Youth Leader, Seriki Murtala, Lagos State APC youth leader, Titilope Gbadamosi, an aspirant from Oyo State, Lulu Fawehinmi, coordinator of the Pentagon Movement Group; Adebayo Rasaq, Sheriff Hammed, Tunde Diya, and many others. The event was hosted by Rinsola Abiola, a media entrepreneur and young politician from Ogun State.Saheed Osupa, Portable, the Zazzu Zeh crooner, Small Doctor have their attendance at the festival slated for February 5.