A member of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Bamisile (BAFEM) has urged governor Kayode Fayemi and the leadership of the All Progressives Congress(APC)  not to downplay the Ekiti South agitation but give it the deserved attention . The former speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly admonished APC Zto draw lessons  from the defeat of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP)  in the Presidential election which he attributed to failure of the party to adhere to  zoning agreement. He stated that the task of making Ekiti moves to the point of greatness is a continuous  process that must be sustained, promising to build on the legacy of Governor Fayemi to lift the state higher than the current position. UK Govt Cuts COVID Isolation Period To 5 Days Indonesian Woman Flogged 100 Times For Adultery Speaking at the official declaration of his Governorship ambition in Ado-Ekiti,the Federal Lawmaker  appealed to governor Fayemi to ensure that the legitimate demand of the biggest zone in Ekiti is realized  during his administration. Stating that the issue of zoning can’t be downplayed, having assumed a national dimension, the former Speaker, Ekiti State House of Assembly, said : “I want to appeal to you party leaders to listen to us on this issue of zoning. ” It is time to support the agitation of the South Senatorial zone of our dear state that has not produced the governor since inception of democracy in 1999, so that we can continue to stand together as one”.he said . Strengthening his position on zoning , Bamisile  disclosed that ” the Governor of Kaduna, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai wanted to contest as president , that was as at two years ago. But if you see him today, he has made a total U-turn, because he said the constitution does not stipulate zoning, but for the principal of fairness, equity and justice, that he would allow the South to take a shot. “The Kaduna Governor was smart to learn from the mistake that  happened to PDP in 2015, who  reneged on the  gentleman’s agreement by parties that power will rotate between the North and South. This is also in the constitution of many parties. POLL “I listened to Governor Fayemi about one and half weeks ago said that all the eight of us contesting for governorship are capable to govern Ekiti. We are not asking anybody to impose anyone, but you must be fair to the South, what is fair is fair. I believe in fairness.” he maintained. Unfolding his agenda, the Chairman, House Committee , Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA), promised to prioritise leadership and good governance,human capital development, agriculture, industrial growth, among others, as cardinal objectives of his administration, if elected governor. “In fairness, Governor Fayemi is the best to have happened to Ekiti. The road from Ode-Omuo Ekiti has been abandoned for long, but he has tarred the road.The governor had done excellently well, but he needs to raise his respect by listening to this agitation from the South”. Bamisile posited that he is incurably committed to the transformation of the socio -economic facets of Ekiti, by offering exemplary leadership that will  uplift the people out of wanton poverty and deprivation. Bamisile said under his leadership, what would be paramount to him is robust leadership and good governance, one that will be strong enough to tackle youth unemployment, insecurity, inject all- inclusive governance and prioritise human capital development. Prince Andrew Returns Military Affiliations, Royal Patronages Group Urges Youths To Shun Rape, Child Sex Abuses “Under my leadership in Ekiti,I will restore peace and progress in place of insecurity and  prosperity in place of poverty and show respect to all Ekiti persons regardless of status and political beliefs. “I will diversify Ekiti economy using our potentials in agriculture like Chief Obafemi Awolowo did during the western region. In addition to this is the development of our human resources and our knowledge economy that was  initiated by the present government to bring a radical change to our economy . ” I know that human resource is more essential than any other resource, so I will develop the sector to be able to function properly under the 21st century economy. “Experts will work hard to tap our potentials in forestry, water and environment sectors, while Industrialisation and infrastructure will be thorough pursued through  public Private  Partnership. I will galvanise all these potentials to reduce poverty , unemployment and the dependence of Ekiti on federal allocation for survival” .