Nollywood actress, Uche Ogbodo has revealed the pregnancy that produced her second daughter, Lumina Maris, saved her from a terminal disease. She disclosed this on Saturday via her Instagram page, stating that she suffered acute Angioedema and was told by her doctor to relocate abroad because she was not likely to survive in Nigeria. The actress wrote, “I am that Woman the Lord Showed Mercy and I am finally ready to share my testimony. The better half of 2020 was the worst time of my life ‘cos I was told I was gonna Drop Dead According to Doctors they said my Condition could only be managed and the worst-case Scenario was Death and I might not know when death would come , they said I could be walking down the street and just Slump cos my heart could stop beating due to suffocation from acute Angioedema. 2023: Prof Greg Ibe Declares Intention For Abia Governorship 2022: Make Your Voice Count, PRP Urges Nigerians “They advised I relocate cos I can’t survive here in Nigeria, they said I should stop coming to the hospital every 2 days to take Steroid Shots that help me with The Swellings and Itching from Acute Urticaria. “I almost lost hope, I had started making plans of Exit putting my properties in my Younger Sisters name and my Baby Mildred’s name cos I believed if I left this earth my Sister would care for my baby better. “But one thing I never did was give up on my God! I Prayed! I fasted ! I hoped! I sowed seeds! I wailed in Agony most nights I couldn’t sleep due to attacks, I didn’t know what to do anymore, my body started rejecting medication even the steroids stopped working so I decided on my own to give up my Medication, but I never stopped praying a until God showed up for me! “Since my immune system was super weak and my hormones were malfunctioning I wasn’t even seeing my periods most times I was shocked when I got Pregnant! Instead of Dying, I Became Pregnant with my BUNNY, and my Life Changed, that Pregnancy changed my life! Reset my Imbalanced Hormones, upped my immune system my blood count became normal, it reset my Dead Skins, My Red and white Blood Cells started working better. Glowed my body and demolished all my Attacks, I could now breath, I no longer had things blocking my airways, I didn’t have problems with my heart anymore! “This was the Major reason I was dancing all through my Pregnancy because God gave me a Second Chance at life and Even dashed me a beautiful human being that used her fathers Genes to Reset MeI can’t explain this Miracle but I know that What God can not Do Does not Exist ! 2022 we move! Healthier and more Vibrant!”