AKURE – Men of Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps(NSCDC) and Ondo State Security Network, otherwise known as Amotekun, have moved to all correctional centres in Ondo State following the withdrawal of soldiers from the facilities. Corps Commander of Amotekun, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, disclosed this on Thursday in Akure. He explained that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu had informed all security agencies in the state to fill the vacuum created by the withdrawal of soldiers from the correctional centres across the state. Governor Akeredolu had expressed fear that there could be jailbreak in any of the facilities because they were prone to attack following the withdrawal of soldiers. According to Akogun Adeleye, “You will agree with me that the correctional centres are Federal Government’s physical assets and it is the responsibility of the mother security agencies to provide security for the facilities. “As soon as that incident (soldiers withdrawal) happened, the police and the NSCDC immediately deployed their men to all the correctional centres and because of our knowledge of the local intelligence, men of the Amotekun were directed by the governor to join the sister security agencies to ensure that there is no vacuum. “As we talk now, all the correctional centres in the state are being manned by the officers and men of the police, NSCDC and the Amotekun.” To forestall attack of the facilities or jailbreak, the Amotekun Corps Commander appealed to the people of the state to contact and infirm security agencies in the state whenever they suspect any strange moves in their neighborhood for prompt action. POLL He said: “First we want to give kudos to the people of the state for their support in terms of quality and timely information upon which we respond and act upon all their distress calls. “We are also telling them that security should not be left with the security agencies alone. They should expose the criminals among them and we will continue to treat all information received with utmost confidence such that source of the information would never be disclosed.”