YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Government said on Tuesday that the Tombia Bridge across the River Nun in the Yenagoa Local Government Area of the state is beginning to fail with the occurrence of damaged portions. The bridge was constructed by the Federal Government about 20 years ago during the administration of the first elected governor of the state, late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. It connects some communities in Yenagoa, Southern Ijaw and Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Areas as well as the state-owned Niger Delta University and the Bayelsa International Airport. Wase Greets Senate President, Lawan At 63 ASUS Unveils New Zenbook 17 Fold OLED Laptop The government said erosion caused by illegal dredging activities had affected the edges of the bridge and some of the joints resulting in noticeable gaps. Governor Douye Diri, who inspected the failed portions on Tuesday, directed an immediate stoppage of dredging activities on the river. He asked the Ministry of Environment to ensure that the directive halting dredging on the river was carried out to prevent the collapse of the bridge. Diri also directed the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure to embark on immediate remedial work on the damaged portions. The governor said, “This structure is showing visible signs of damage and weakness. The activities of illegal dredgers in the River Nun underneath the bridge have apparently caused the erosion that has affected the bridge. POLL “This bridge was built during the administration of the late Governor Diepriye Alamieyeseigha almost 20 years ago by the Federal Ministry of Works. We need to draw the Federal Government’s attention to this while we embark on immediate remedial work to prevent its collapse. “I hereby direct the Commissioner for Environment to ensure stoppage of dredging activities on the river. “I also direct the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure to commence immediate remedial work on the bridge to safeguard it for our people that ply this road to Ekpetiama communities, to Amassoma, Igbedi, the Bayelsa Airport and other communities in this axis of the state.”