Barcelona have finally registered new signing Ferran Torres after ‘increasing their financial fair play quota’ following a new deal for defender Samuel Umtiti. The French defender had been linked with a move away from the Nou Camp, but with his contract due to expire in 2023, Barca have announced a new deal until 2026. Yet what the 28-year-old was owed in the next 18 months will now be spread over the course of the new four-and-a-half year deal, which has subsequently resulted in the Catalan giants being able to sign up £55m man Torres officially. Nigeria Is Broken Because Of Personal Responsibility Issues, Not… BREAKING: Gunmen Enforce IPOB’s Sit-At-Home Order In Enugu Spain international Torres moved from Manchester City at the beginning of the month – and tested positive for Covid-19 shortly after his unveiling. Barca put on record their gratitude to Umtiti – who has been linked with a move to Newcastle – in a club statement detailing the arrangement, as they looked to overcome their financial plight. ‘FC Barcelona and first team player Samuel Umtiti have reached an agreement to extend the latter’s contract until 30 June 2026,’ the statement read. ‘The French defender is reducing a part of the salary that he was due to receive in the year and a half remaining on his contract. ‘This contract extension operation does not entail any greater financial commitments for FC Barcelona with regard to the player. FC Barcelona wishes to publicly express its gratitude to Samuel Umtiti for his willingness and the affection that he has demonstrated towards the club. POLL ‘Through this contract extension, FC Barcelona will be able to increase its ‘financial fair play’ quota and thus register Ferran Torres with the Spanish Professional Football League.’ Torres is now in line to feature against Real Madrid on Wednesday for his debut in the Spanish Super Cup semi-finals. The club only registered Dani Alves last week after he re-joined the club in November, following the opening of the registration window on January 3.