ABUJA – The Arewa Youth Consultative Movement and Ohaneze Ndigbo Youth Council have described the appointment of Ukeagu Kenneth Nnamdi as a National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by President Muhammadu Buhari as a round peg in a round hole. They took to a joint statement on Friday in Abuja, to commend the President, saying his decision fully demonstrates that he has the good interest of the nation at heart. According to both groups, Nnamdi’s years of experience in election management will contribute to the country’s quest for a strengthened democratic process. Nembe Spill: Arewa Youths Most Ignorant About Niger Delta… Igbo Youths Berate Arewa Youths Over Opposition Of Nnamdi Kanu’s… The statement also cautioned against attempts by some individuals to bring in what they described as “ethnic politics” into the nomination process, warning that INEC is not a place for ethnic “warlords”. The Ohaneze Ndigbo Youth Council in its reaction said the South East zone is pleased with the nomination urging the President to continue to seek out individuals with the right skill sets to man sensitive government positions. According to Mazi Demian Okafor who emerged the National Youth Leader of the Council, Ukeagu has the competence to represent the zone, warning those fanning embers of ethnic divide to desist from doing so in the interest of Ndigbo. “We are one. Any time one of our sons is elevated, we are happy. Especially when such person is qualified as in the case of Kenneth. We commend President Buhari for this appointment.” On its part, Arewa Youth Consultative Movement said the action of the President shows he has no hidden agenda whatsoever, noting that the President has been transparent with appointment of INEC Commissioners. POLL In her remarks, the Executive Director, Centre for Transparency Advocacy CTA, Faith Nwadishi said it is important to bring in people with proven track records. She said, “while we still expect the President to sign the Electoral Amendment Bill, his appointment of Ukeagu Kenneth Nnamdi is a welcome development because he has decades of experience, he is competent and knows what it takes to deliver credible polls”. She cautioned that INEC is not a place to play ethnic politics. Also, Ezenwa Nwagwu of the Partners for Electoral Reforms clarified claims by a group that Commissioners should be appointed on sub-zone level,saying that such claims showed the lack of understanding of the electoral process by the individuals making such claims. He said, nominations for INEC Commissioners are done on geo-political zonal basis and there is no sub-divisions known in the political administration of Nigeria.