The entry of a grassroot political gladiator, Barrister DD Azura in the Adamawa Central Senatorial District has further created confusion in the Adamawa’ State wing of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP. Azura, a friend of the Governor and man of the people who went through various political process to arrived at the enviable level a crowd puller and man of the people have been leading a group from the 7 LGAs that made up the District for the past 30 years. The London trained lawyer was the head of chambers of the Boss Gida Mustapha law Chambers before becoming the Hong Local Government Area as executive chairman officer. Senate Begins Investigation Into Fraudulent Award Of N7.5bn In… Restoration Of Power Supply: Social Life Returns To Guyuk LGA In… He was Chairman of the Industrial Arbitration panel during President Goodluck Jonathan. The central Senatorial District is packed full of eminent personalities who are also vying for the 2023 Senate seat but from all indications the legal luminary has the clout to spring surprises because for over 31 years he had established the DD Azura Group which is one of the several groups he is sponsoring not only in Hong Local Government Areas but now spread to all the Seven LGAs of the central district.. Azura a top notch PDP man has some people to contend with which are also pulling weight on ground but compered to the former best LGA Chairman of Hong he is creating ripples in the PDP. The seat is now been occupied by Senator Ahmed Aishatu Binani of the APC. POLL Baba Ibrahim Mustapha, Abdulahi Prambe and several others are names on the posters of the walls within District as possible contenders but eminent personalities spoken to in Adamawa State have said DD Azura has jolted all calculators. Addressing a mammoth crowd at Kulinyi recently DD Azura said he was entering the race because he was answering the call of the people of the Senatorial District who have been calling him all these while such that together they would move the District forward. He said the PDP was the major block to make the difference in the 2023 general elections from the Presidency to Adamawa Central District in the upper Chambers.