Star singer/songwriter Omoladé Oyetundun Rachael has brought to the limelight the reason why she had to pause her academics at the University of Ilorin Kwara State, Nigeria. Contrary to popular belief that it might be difficult juggling both education and stardom, Ladé has her own story to tell. Ladé, as she is popularly called, has been all about the music from a very young age and her parents were genuinely okay with her doing music as a hobby. She started out by singing in church choirs and with friends. Ladé continued with much enthusiasm for music in school despite her father’s distaste for her taking music more seriously than her academics. She attended rehearsals and participated in competitions where she represented both her school, state and won. That was the turning point for her as her father began to recognize how important music was to her and the success that comes alongside it. Her mum has always been a supporter of her music career, her dad however is now open to her passion and has now become one of her biggest fans sharing her links of music whenever necessary. After her rise to the spotlight thanks to her vocals on the popular Airtel 444 advert, Ladé’s lecturers were of the opinion that she has become proud and as such, had a bitter eye out for her. “The highest sacrifice I have made for music is putting a pause on my academics”, Ladé said. “It’s alright to make sacrifices for what you believe in, juggling both music and academics is feasible but I have way too much passion for music, so I chose music. Music gives me fulfillment and makes me happy. There is no age restriction to education and at my convenience, I will eventually go to school and pursue what I am passionate about. I’m a very creative person and I do well with my imagination. Right now I’m focusing solely on making music.” POLL “I am not against education and I am not saying anyone should not choose education, I’m just fulfilled with making music at this point”, Ladé said. Ladé has begun to solidify her pursuit in music as she just released a beautiful body of art titled “OMOLADÉ’. An EP birthed out of gratitude, love and hustle. The fast-rising star is using her success gained from the love received from the viral commercials she’s done to rise to the top chain of the music industry hence the recent release of her EP. Omolade EP by Ladé comprises 5 songs namely ‘Sing’, ‘Hustle’, ‘Speechless’, ‘Corny’ and ‘Situationship’ with production credits going to Damelo Wayne, Oscar and Ovonovo. ‘Omoladé’ EP by Ladé is out on all digital platforms.