Not minding the repeated denials by the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi about his interest in the 2023 Presidential race, former Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Jelili Adesiyan has urged the governor  to throw his hat in the  ring. The former Minister also urged the  stakeholders in Ekiti in particular and South-West  to prevail on governor Fayemi to join the Presidential  race saying “Nigeria needs Fayemi  at this crucial time. Alhaji Adesiyan, who was in Ado-Ekiti to drum support for one of his former aides, Otunba Demola  Popoola (ODEP) who is vying for the Governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress(APC)  said he was compelled to voice out, so that  Nigeria will not miss the service of Fayemi in 2023. Delta 2023 Governorship: We Will Not Oppose The Choice Of DC-23… 2023: Abia Foremost Philanthropist, Chief Omerekpe Declares For… He said: “Let me say this clearly, in Nigeria today, I have not seen any governor that is better than Fayemi. That is why Nigeria needs the incumbent governor in 2023 to reposition our nation.” According to him, Fayemi is a  perfect match for the job and he should be encouraged to show interest. “I cannot come to Ekiti and fails to talk about this. It appears Ekiti people did not know the value of what they have. Fayemi is probably the best material we have for the job now. He is  young, brilliant, articulate and visionary. This is not about noise. When we see a good leader ,we know and we have seen one in Fayemi. For somebody to have been leading the Nigeria Governors’ Forum(NGF) successfully, you know what means. “I was surprised seeing the governor completing many  abandoned projects and initiating several others in Ekiti in spite of the paucity of fund. I have seen the State’s Civic Centre ,the news roads constructed by his administration and many other laudable projects. We are just waiting for him to make his intention known”, Adesiyan  said. Describing Fayemi as a good leader, Adesiyan appealed to Popoola to build on the legacy being the governor would leave behind if he eventually wins the poll. End