***As ICPC Cooperative Launches Housing Estate ABUJA – The Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Professor Bolaji Owasanoye, SAN, has warned the developer handling the ICPC Multi-purpose Cooperative Housing Estate, Gefen Group, against substandard and poor execution of the project. Ukraine: US Troops On High Alert Over Stand-Off AFCON: Cameroon Beat 10-Man Comoros To Reach Quarterfinals The Chairman gave the warning in Abuja during the official Groundbreaking Ceremony of the Estate, which is named Professor Bolaji Owasanoye Housing Estate, located at Kagini Village, Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Professor Owasanoye who spoke against cutting corners, advised the developer to ensure that “only the best” was delivered to the staff of the Commission. According to Mrs. Azuka Ogugua, ICPC Spokesperson in a statement to Daily Independent, the Chairman also encouraged the Cooperative to be “vigilant by getting experts to supervise the work as the construction progresses.” The ICPC boss also admonished Infinity Trust Mortgage Bank, the Primary Mortgage for the housing estate to always play by the rules, saying that ICPC was not an agency to play with. POLL The project, which covers a total of 1.36 hectares of land, is designed to accommodate 32 units of 2-bedroom flats, 32 units of 3-bedroom flats and 16 units of 4-bedroom flats making a total of 80 units of flats. Earlier in his welcome address, the Cooperative President, Mr. Joshua Wakili, stated that the Kagini Housing Estate project was conceived with a view towards “covering the housing deficit faced by public servants and the residents of Abuja which is one of the cardinal aspirations of the current President of our nation.” He said, “This Project is also poised at providing quality and affordable houses to members of our amiable cooperative society thereby meeting the mandate of the cooperative society which is above all, welfare.” The President also explained that the Estate was designed to have a good road network; enough parking spaces; two 500kva generators; industrial boreholes; solar powered streetlights; security posts; perimeter fencing; recreational ground and a shopping mall amongst others. The Estate according to Mr. Wakili is estimated to cost about One Billion, One Hundred and Seventy-Six Million, Eight Hundred and Eight Thousand, Eight Hundred and Four Naira. Group Exonerates Lawmaker Satomi From Social Media Allegations Student Kills One, Wounds 3 In Shooting At German University Speaking at the ceremony, the Emir of Jiwa, Alhaji Musa Idris, who was represented by the District Head of Kagini, Alhaji Ayuba Barau, lauded the ICPC Cooperative for adequately compensating the local community. The Royal Father therefore pledged his continuous support for ICPC whenever the need arises. Giving a historical perspective, Mr. Bello Dauda, under whose stewardship the Kagini Land was acquired, explained that the motivating factor was the challenge of housing for members of the Cooperative. He narrated the processes they followed before the land was acquired and the Certificate of Occupancy given. On his part, the President Abuja Cooperative, Mr. Emmanuel Atama, described ICPC Cooperative as one of the frontline cooperative society in the FCT. Mr. Atama who spoke on some of the fraudulent activities in some cooperative societies, expressed his willingness to partner with the Commission to ensure transparency in the body of cooperative. Also, speaking at the ceremony, the Managing Director, Gefen Group, Dr. Nosa Edeko, pledged to do everything within his power to ensure that professionalism was not compromised in order to provide high quality projects. High point of the event was the Foundation Laying ceremony which was performed by ICPC Chairman in company of ICPC Board Members, Secretary to the Commission, Royal Fathers and developers.