ABUJA – Hon. Ighariwe Iduma Enwo, member representing Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency of Ebonyi has described as “criminal and terrorism” the activities of Ebubeagu, a group he referred to as armed militia established by the Dave Umahi-led Ebonyi State Government. The lawmaker who was addressing journalists in Abuja on Monday said the atrocities of Ebubeagu in the state led to the motion he and his other PDP colleagues in the House moved, calling attention to the mayhem being visited in the people of the state. “The motion I moved was on behalf of the Ebonyi PDP Caucus in the House on the killings by armed militia in the state. The idea was to let the world and the entire public know what is going on in the state. Ebubeagu Not For Political Witch-hunting – APC Over Seven Ebubeagu Operatives Killed By Gunmen In Ebonyi, Says… “Ebonyi is one of 5 states in the Southeast. Already we have a fair share of instability in the country and it’s our duty to let the world know what is happening in one of the states in the Southeast, because if care is not taken, what’s happening in other parts of the country will start happening in the Southeast, because we know how Boko Haram started. We know the dangers of proliferation of arms. That’s why some of us were very happy when Mr President ordered for the recall of arms in the hands of individuals. Right now arms are being mopped up, so why should a Governor, a Chief security officer of a state deliberately arm individuals who are not trained in the use of weapons? And when he leaves office for instance, what happens to those weapons? So these are some of the concerns. “In Ebonyi state right now, virtually every local government, we have 13 of them, arms are being amassed in large quantity and distributed to criminals who are recruited as members of the armed militia. And what this militia has been doing because they have the full backing of the state government with the assurance that nothing will happen to them no matter whatever crime they commit. They have become tools in the hands of those who want to cause mischief. “If I have a quarrel with you, this is an example of what happened in Akwuavu. Two people had a disagreement over Indian bamboo, and the Ebubeagu person went and called his colleagues to settle the matter for them. And when they came, they opened fire on the young man and he died. “They also killed another young man in Akaeze in Ivo local government, the video even went viral I can show you. What they did was they tied his hands to the back and used ax to cut him into pieces, and of course, he died. When after two days the youths went to the local government chairman to ask how can they put a stop to this kind of situation, the local government chairman, Mr Ogbaudu who’s a retired Navy, I don’t if he was kicked out of the Navy or something. He opened fire on them and killed two people. “When the governor went there two days after because it was a major escalation, he did not address the killing of the youth by Ebubeagu, neither did he talk about the killing of two other youths by the local government chairman, rather he was talking about how Ebubeagu has come to stay,” the lawmaker narrated. POLL He said the Ebonyi state government through the state house of assembly passed a law creating the armed militia as against the provisions of the constitution which exclusively placed anything regarding the procurement, distribution and use of arms in the hands of the federal government. He added that creating and arming individuals amounts to illegality that will be contested in the law courts in the coming days and weeks. “I can show you pictures of Ebubeagu carrying AK47 rifles, I can show you pictures of Ebubeagu carrying pump-action, and these are individuals wearing masks, so you don’t know who they are. What this means is that any group of people can just decide to acquire weapons, which is a recipe for chaos. Where does it take us to? So that’s the instability we are talking about in our motion,” he added. He reiterated the prayers of his motion which called on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to “investigate alleged attacks and killings by the Ebubeagu security outfit in Ebonyi State.” It also called on the House to urge the office of National Security and Intelligence to investigate the status of the authorization of various weapons such as pump action guns, AK47s and other automatic weapons which are used by the group in Ebonyi, just as it urged the Committees on Police Affairs and National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance.