***Says INEC Doing Major Cleanup Of Voters Register ABUJA – Prof Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has blamed the delay in release of detailed timetable for the 2023 general election on the lingering slow passage of the of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. Addressing Chairmen of the 18 registered Political parties at its quarterly consultative meeting in Abuja, the Independent National Chairman said the commission will release the election timetable as soon as it knows the fate of the bill. Despite Security Challenges, Nigeria Is Not A Failed Nation –… SMEs: Ugwuanyi Empowers Enugu Youths Through Cyber Security… The House of Representatives has said it is reintroducing the bill returned to the two chambers by President Mohammadu Buhari. Prof Yakubu also disclosed that the commission is carrying out extensive cleanup of data in the voters register to ensure that only eligible citizens is added into the voters register for the 2023 election, adding that for INEC and the different political parties would have some busy time in 2022. On the voter registration exercise which is ongoing, he said that as at 17th January 2022, ” a total of 8,260,076 eligible Nigerians commenced the online pre-registration, completed the registration physically or applied for transfer to new voting locations, replacement of their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) or updated their voter information records as required by law”. He also updated the parties on the forthcoming FCT local council election, where he said citizens are not taking full advantage of the access to polling unit exercise completely by the commission to move their voters cards those centers. According to him, out the 2822 polling units in the FCT, 593 of them do not have voters. POLL “This is because voters failed to take advantage of the expansion of access to transfer to these new Polling Units. The detailed distribution of voters to Polling Units in the FCT is among the documents in your folders for this meeting”. Meanwhile Sani Yusuf Yabagi, the new national Chairman of the the Inter -Party Advisory Council has pleaded with the National Assembly and executive to resolve the logjam hindering the passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill expeditiously. He said: “IPAC are anticipating the emergence of an Electoral Act that will address among others, the lingering and fundamental issues relating to the legalization of Electronic Accreditation of Voters as well as, the transmission of election results; issues relating to substitution of candidates in the event of death in an election; a redefinitionof what amounts to over-voting; early release of election funds to INEC; early commencement of campaigns by political parties and, the period that political parties are legally allowed to commence campaigns in the countdown to elections”. Engr Yabagi seized the opportunity to commend the commission for the effort at redefining the nation’s Electoral system through the use of technology and urged the commission not to relent in the strides. He also urged the commission to address issues which stakeholders observed at the Anambra State governorship election before the Ekiti and Osun Governorship Elections.