IBADAN – Following a recent report of a kidnap case at Onigari part of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, the Oyo State Police Command, under the able and gallant Commissioner, CP Ngozi Onadeko, on Tuesday, led a routine patrol team to ensure safer road for commuters plying the route on daily basis. Onigari, a border community between Oyo and Ogun states, and barely two weeks ago it was in the news that a man was killed, his wife was kidnapped while one was injured by yet to be identified gunmen suspected to be kidnappers. CP Onadeko, who led a joint patrol to the affected place briefed journalists about the safety of the road. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… Ngozi in her speech said, “We came here on a routine patrol and a routine check on our men who are on patrol duty, as you can see when we were coming you could see so many patrol vehicles, once in a while we come out to check to ensure we have the visibility of policemen on the road and there are enough patrolling vehicles.” “We have put in place a kind of check at the various checkpoints, and we have patrolling vehicles to patrolling both sides of the road so we are just here on a routine check to see that our men are doing what they’re supposed to be doing. “Yesterday the Deputy Commissioner of Police Operations (DCP OPS) was here with his team, today I also decided to come just to ensure members of the public, all the commuters that we are here to safeguard them, that the road is free and secure that our able men are doing their possible best to enable them to have a free ride to and from, from Lagos to Ibadan or wherever it’s they are going to,” Ngozi said When asked if the routine check was triggered by the recent kidnap case in the area, CP Onadeko said, “We cannot say we are doing this routine check because of the kidnap case that happened here about two weeks ago because this is what we’ve been doing constantly. She further said, “we have joint patrols with Ogun State Police Command, we’ve combed the bush even before that incident happened but investigations are going on, we are making headway, I don’t really want to say how far we’ve gone. POLL Onadeko, however, used the medium to call on the people of the state to shun any fake reports that are capable of creating fears or tension for them. She also called on the media to shun any sensational stories that can cause panic for the people of the State. She said, “I will still enjoy the pressmen to stop over speculations, it’s really deterring for people coming out and putting fear in them, we are trying everything humanly possible to ensure the safety of our road users, the IG is with us on what we are doing to ensure the safety of this road.” The CP’s patrol team took off a few minutes after one, with the starting point from the Command Headquarters Eleyele Ibadan, passed through Alesinloye Market, Challenge Area, Idi Ayunre, straight to Onigari, while returning, the team took to the main express road, leaving behind the Onigari border, passed through Guru Muharaj Village, Ibadan Quarries, Toll Gate, straight to Iwo Road, then to Ojoo, before headed back to Eleyele Police Command Headquarters.