LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari, Visitor to the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has tasked the nation’s University education sector to sustain benchmark minimum standards approved by the National Universities Commission (NUC). President Buhari gave the charge at the close of the 52nd convocation of UNILAG which was held at the F.Ade Ajayi Main Auditorium of the institution. The President, whose address was delivered by Dr. Chris Mayaki, Deputy Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission said adherence to such standards can only guarantee particularly the type of quality education produced in good universities. B2B E-Commerce Makes Logistics Easier For Nigeria’s Informal… BREAKING: Sanwo-Olu Reinstates Suspended LASU Registrar, Amuni This, the President advocated, can instigate rapid social, economic, scientific and technological changes needed to guarantee Nigeria’s march to the future with pride and confidence. He said, “The present administration will continue to encourage the Nigerian University System, by ensuring that we meet our obligations to this unique constituency, the pride and future of our nation. “We have recently shown this commitment by releasing the sum of N22.5b as Earned Allowances and N30b as Revitalization fund for the universities. We have also ensured that TETFund is responsive and proactive, by providing among others, funds for research, infrastructure and staff development. “From 2019 to date, a sizeable amount running into billions has been disbursed for the funding of Research. I am not aware of any other Administration that has paid more attention to the funding of education like the present administration. He assured that his administration will not rest on its oars and shall continue to engage the relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable funding to enable universities to deliver on their mandates. POLL President Buhari said he was particularly happy that peace now reigns in the University community after recent unnecessary and avoidable disquiet which nearly impinged on its reputational capital and acclaimed slogan, as the University of First Choice and the Pride of the nation. He said, “We must express special thanks to the Lagos State Government, National Assembly, the Federal Ministry of Education, the National Universities Commission and other well meaning stakeholders alike, for their interventions and for providing credible and effective leadership which in no small measure has helped in re-enacting the shared vision and unity of purpose for this great citadel of learning.”He urged the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe and his Management Team to play their part, through creative and resourceful leadership to sustain the gains. The VC lauded President Mohammadu Buhari for his support, the NUC, the Federal Ministry of Education, the chairman governing council, the chancellor, the management and staff of the university for their steadfastness at a period it mattered most. The ceremonies featured the presentation of awards and certificates to deserving graduates of the university. The oldest postgraduate student who bagged Doctor of Philosophy, Ph.D., in Mechanical Engineering at the age of 70, Engineer Asuelimen George Anacious said the expediency for him to properly fit into the academic line spurred him to pursue a Masters’ degree and subsequently a Doctor of Philosophy both at the University of Lagos