Ngozi Ogbuehi, the Chief Executive Officer of Zika Crown Goodies, a firm that is into bakery, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, talks about the challenges that business entrepreneurs are facing in the country and why the government must ensure that the pump price of fuel is not increased. Excerpts: How did the business start? I never had a passion for baking. What brought me into baking is peanuts. I saw peanuts somewhere I liked the way it was prepared and packaged and that was the attraction. People Should Take Advantage Of Technology To Enhance Their… I Was The Fourth Woman To Go Into Uber/Bolt Business – Abiola I thought that I should try my hands on it. I got someone to train me, but the person didn’t give me what I wanted, so I had to go online to get the training. I browsed it and saw the way it was being prepared, I did further consultations and that was it. I have been in the business for two years now. How has the business been? When we started it was thriving and I enjoyed what I was doing. The recent increase in the prices of things as a result of inflation is affecting our business adversary. POLL Inflation is killing businesses in Nigeria. The economy is down now. When I started this business a bag of flour was sold for N11,000 but now the price has gone up to N22,000 and above. The price of vegetable oil has also tripled and so for other condiments that we use for the bakery business. The business is dull for now, things are not looking up the way it should because customers are not buying the way they should because of hike in the price as a result of increased cost of production. In spite of the challenges that you just mentioned, what do you think is the way forward? The way things are in the country at the moment if nothing is done urgently there will be serious problems. I say this because you cannot plan under this condition that we find ourselves as business owners. If you go to the market today and you buy things by the time you return to the same market the next day the price must have increased. Govt Should Have Policies That Will Impact Positively On Event… Despite Proliferation Of Real Estate Companies, Housing Problem… A business owner will suddenly discover that the capital that he or she is using to run business has reduced by over 60 percent. If you sell your product and you return to the market the next time, you will be shocked that your cost price and the profit that you made put together cannot buy another product for you. I will appeal to the government to help business owners; it can give us grant or even loan, where the interest rate will be very low. I have tried to get one but it didn’t work. I want the government to assist us if not so; a lot of business will go under. We are trying in this country to do most things on our own as entrepreneurs, we power our factories and do most of these things which eat deep into our capital, Assuming the government plays its role in providing an enabling environment for us, it will go a long way in assisting our growth. I am talking about loan at very low interest rate because our capital has been depleted so much as a result of the harsh business environment under which we operate. If a customer orders for products he or she will expect you to produce and deliver before payment and by that you have extended some form of credit to the customer. If you are unlucky not to have the resources to produce and be paid later the customer will easily cancel the order and book with someone who has the resources to supply now and be paid later. It is for that reason that the government must come to our aid especially for those of us that are just starting. It has not been easy for us. I know how much I started the business with as capital but the harsh business environment is daily eating deep into the capital. The unfortunate aspect of it is that your price increase cannot be commensurate with the increase in your cost of production; otherwise you will lose your customers to competitors. Where are your customers located? Presently I service only Lagos customers. I have not started supplying to those customers outside the state. We are still young and are trying to grow the customers in our locality and may be in the future we can begin to think of expanding beyond Lagos State. How do you manage logistics? I do the delivery myself. I use a few staff to supply to our customers but we don’t outsource delivery because of cost. It will cost us more to use courier to deliver to those shops that are not close by and we don’t want to incur additional cost so that we won’t be tempted to increase our price. You know that we are in a competitive business. We try as much as possible to manage our costs even though it may involve extra stress on our part. Talking about managing your cost of delivery, we know that it will cost you extra to deliver to your customers because you may need to fuel your car or pay for transport to your customers’ locations. What is your thought on the alleged plan of the government to increase the pump price of fuel? The government should not consider that at all. The suffering is already too much for business owners. Inflation is too high and prices of goods are beyond the reach of the people. You know that pump price of fuel has a way of having a spiral effect on other products and services because of logistics. If the pump price of fuel goes up it will even increase the price of flour which I just told you is about N22,000, maybe we will be talking of N30,000 or more. Few Months ago when I travelled to the East, from my town to Onitsha was N500 and when I travelled during the Christmas the fare has gone up to N2,000, even when the pump price of fuel has not increased. We are appealing to Mr. President to please ensure that it does not happen. This present hardship is too much. Businesses are not finding it easy. A lot of people are still in business because they cannot find an alternative thing to do. I must say that with the present situation of things in this country, entrepreneurs are in a very difficult situation and I think that the government should understand and find a way to lessen this burden for us. The mere mention of planning to increase it will make transporters increase fares. Nigerians are very hard working people and they have been trying to cope on their own, the government should please allow us to continue to manage the way we have been doing. We are appealing to them. What do you think will be business outlook in 2022? If someone should look at the way things are, one may be pessimist but I would rather be optimistic. I want to be hopeful because 2022 is not dependent on 2021. Things were very difficult in 2021 but we are hoping for better things in 2022 because God says that he will do a new thing. As long as God has said it, I believe that 2022 will be good for businesses; it will be good for Nigerians.