LAGOS – Comrade Omoyele Sowore, National Chairman and 2019 presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), has called on the Nigerian masses not to succumb to the whims and caprices of the ruling class. Sowore, in his new year message to Nigerians, the masses and members of his party, maintained that although the ruling class attempted to scuttle the plans of his party for Nigerians, all hopes should not be lost as efforts had been in top gear to rejuvenate the AAC and turn it into a masses-oriented organisation it was meant to be from inception. He stated: “I bring to you all greetings on behalf of the entire National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party, the African Action Congress (AAC), seizing this opportunity of the New Year day celebrations to appreciate you all for your sacrifice of love and steadfastness at all times. Ondo Poll: AAC Vows To Sue INEC For Replacing Party’s Deputy… Westlife Prepare For Come-Back With Release Of First Album In… “Since the launch of our party on August 15, 2018, we have, with unimaginable energy reached out to the masses of our people, mobilised them with our revolutionary ideas and have made sure that our message of hope and liberation spread across the nooks and corners of the world, starting from our base here in Nigeria. “You all have made this spread possible in a short period through your unflinching supports; times you had to send the last naira, last dollar, last pound and euro, helping with all sorts, travelling from far and near, just to make sure the mill of the revolution grinds well. I seriously want to thank you.” Sowore noted that the AAC’s presence in the political space had been disruptive and that the transformational effect of this could not be denied, even by the party’s adversaries. The AAC leader stressed that the party and its members had been able “to storm the weather, as there is no gainsaying to the fact that for the last three years of the establishment of our great party, we have maintained our insignia of freedom, truth, resistance, solidarity and camaraderie. “All these we have held with our heads straight, eyes focused, shoulders high despite heavy state intimidations and threats, always pointing us to the contrary. POLL “I on behalf of the NWC can tell you for a fact that the usurpers are not finding the battle funny anymore. They have run out of gas, as supports from their political schemers, internally and externally have shrunk beyond their expectation. “This is coming as an effect of our unrelenting and dynamic political activities towards the rescue.” He, however, expressed joy that Nigerians had become more interested in what the AAC had offered and what it had in stock, much more than how the state had been interested in it. Sowore stressed: “In 2021, we recorded significant growth – set up and rejuvenated leadership structures in a state such as Kaduna, partook in local government elections in Ondo, Benue, Kano and a few other states across the country. “Attempts were also made in Lagos before we were consciously sabotaged again by the regime’s undemocratic electoral umpire (INEC) who deliberately omitted our party’s name on the ballot box. [VIDEO] Front Page Headlines For Thursday, 18th July, 2019 AAC’s Suspension Of Sowore As Chairman Does Not Stand – INEC “Preparations are underway for our participation in Abuja. I want to assure you that more states shall be visited by the National Working Committee (NWC) in the new year, as there shall be a lot of state-wide town hall meetings to iron out a number of developmental issues. “The AAC is our party, your party. As you all know that 2022 is our national convention year and as believers in democratic tenets, leadership would change. “I urge all members and prospectives to be part of the process and engage as peace-loving individuals that we are known as. The dates and lines of activities shall be reeled out soon after all constitutional provisions have been fulfilled. “At this juncture, on the state of the nation, I want to inform you that the next year, 2022 would be awash with a lot of neo-liberal attacks, democratic rights would be violated more by the state and the civic space would continue to shrink, but as usual of a penultimate election year, the Nigerian ruling class are prepared to throw crumbs around, to again secure their reign. “I need not remind you that these crumbs are from our commonwealth; our collective patrimony that they have stolen for themselves and their cronies. It is a given that poverty has been inflicted on the rest of us and it has also been weaponized for social conditioning. “I want to implore you all not to fall for this ploy and to also organise more resistance against their manipulation. I want to assure you party members that we shall not abandon any political process that would bring peace, progress and prosperity to our people as we have promised in our manifesto. “The struggle has just begun. Fasten your belts for it is time to do more.”