ABUJA – The Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osin­bajo has approved contract awards for various projects in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), flood control in the six geopolitical zones as well as for the Ministry of Transportation with a combined worth of about N76.78 billion. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, joined by his FCT and Transpor­tation counterparts, Moham­med Bello and Rotimi Amaechi, respectively, disclosed this while briefing correspondents on the outcome of the council meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday. The FCT has the largest share of the contracts approved for award with its two projects costing a total of about N56.2 billion. Expert Says FCTA Can Revamp Revenue, Reduce Cost Of Governance FCT-IRS Launches Aggressive Tax Drive To Meet N200bn Target According to the FCT min­ister, the approvals are for the construction of Kuje 105 high­way, access road and car park for Abuja Light Rail station. He explained: “Council ap­proved two contracts for the FCTincludingfortheFullScope Development of Federal Capi­tal Territory Highway 105, Kuje Road, from Airport Expressway to Kuje Junction Stage 1, Abuja, at the cost of N54,946,009,160.04. “It was awarded to Messrs. Arab Contractors O. A. O Nige­ria Limited with a completion period 48 months. “The second contract award is for the construction of access road and car park for Abuja Light Rail Stations – Gbazango Station of the Federal Capital City, Abuja – Lot 7 at the cost of N1,291,568,845.33. POLL “It was awarded in favour of Messrs. CBC Global Civil and Building Construction Nigeria Limited with a completion peri­od of 8 months.” The FCT minister also as­sured that efforts are underway to complete the longstanding Apo-Karshi road whose imple­mentation, he said, had been unnecessarily delayed because of lack of funding and design error. He added: “Apo-Karshi road is a road that should have been completed quite some time. It has faced a lot of challenges, some of which include funding, design error, and a few other is­sues. “I do know that just before I took my (COVID) break, a team from the relevant de­partments interfaced with them and they are very clear. I will try as much as possible to get this project over with at the level of my office by making sure that funding is adequately provided.” Theministerof information, on his part, gave a breakdown of the 14 projects approved for award under the Ecological Fund spanning the six geo-po­litical zones of the country. Tinubu’s Associates Split Over Osinbajo’s Alleged Presidential… Lagos Acquires Two New Talgo Trains He explained that two mem­os were presented on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari including the one that sought approval for the award of contracts for the 2022 emer­gency procurement of first and second quarters accelerated soil erosion, flood and pollution con­trol intervention projects. The 14 ecological project con­tracts were approved for award at the total cost of about N15.1 billion. Mohammed explained: “You note that these projects are di­vided across the six geopolitical zones. Two in the South-East, two in the South-West, two in the South-South; North-East has two, North-West has three, North-Central and FCT have three. “What I want to add here is that most of these projects when completed, they are handed over to the beneficial commit­tees. But the intervention of the Ecological Office is massive, huge and if we can complete 261 in six years, all that shows is that an average of about 40 or more every year. “The other memo is of equal importance, on behalf of Mr. President. It is the memo seeking approval for the award of contract for the provision of various agricultural inputs and equipment for the National Youth Farmers’ Scheme. “As you are aware, we have the National Youth Farmers’ Scheme under the National Ag­ricultural Land Development Authority. Here, four contracts were awarded for the total sum of N1 billion, N393 million with various completion periods.” In his address, Amaechi said he presented four memos on be­half of his ministry, which were all approved by FEC. He said FEC approved memo for the clearing of equip­ment for the deep blue project, “which will enable us site some of these projects in the coastal towns along the coasts,” at the cost N2.7 billion to be paid to the clearing agents.