ABUJA – The House of Representatives is worried that traditional rulers who are custodians of the people and the citizens are now the target of kidnappers. Hon. Musa Bagos described this as unfortunate, raised alarm over the rising spate of kidnapping in Plateau State particularly, Jos South and Jos East Federal Constituency. These followed a motion of urgent public importance brought by Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos (PDP, Plateau). Sabo, Yaba Residents Seek Help As Miscreants Continually Defile… Man Commits Suicide In Kwara Hon. Bagos noted that on Sunday, 16th January, 2022, at about 8pm the paramount ruler, the Gwom Rwei of Vwang, Da Gyang Balak was abducted while driving back home around the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in Vom Community. “He is now the second traditional ruler kidnapped in Plateau State within two months”. The House in their angry mood concerning these kidnapps mandated the Inspector General of Police to investigate the the kidnapping of the traditional rulers in Plateau State and report back to the House Committee on Police Affairs within two weeks. The House also urged that the perpetrators be brought to justice. The House said the issue of insecurity, kidnapping and payment of huge ransom to secure the release of victims has become a nightmare in the society. POLL The House feel sad that the issue of kidnapping has become a day to day routine with the kidnappers placing a huge demand of ransom on family, friends and communities of their victims in order to secure the release of the said victims. The House is calling on Federal Government institutions like the National Veterinary Institute (NVRI) and the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) around Jos South to install street lights and surveillance cameras within their communities. The House is also calling on Inspector General of Police to equip the community police with communication equipment to aid rescue operations. The House is worried that in this digital era where tracking ought to be made easier due to the synchronizing of National Identity Number with phone numbers, the perpetrators of the inhumane acts continue to communicate with victims’ family via phone yet go untraceable and free. These should be checked thoroughly.