IBADAN – Founder of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji, has once again lent his voice that the Super Eagles of Nigeria will fly higher at the African Cup of Nations (AFCON), with the sack of the German coach, Gernot Rohr. Maharaj Ji, has been the advocating for the sack of Gernot Rohr, the coach of Super Eagles of Nigeria because he is a festering sore that is gradually decimating the spirit of Nigeria’s soccer fortune. In a press statement on Tuesday through the One Love Family Divine Minister for Information, Ojo Mogbadewa, he disclosed that the sack of Rohr will turn around the fortune of Nigeria football to the early years of Nigeria football glory. Pinnick Assures Coca-Cola On Protection Against Ambush Marketers Former Liverpool Chief Peter Robinson Dies At 87 According to the statement, “Recall that Maharaj Ji has been an advocate for the non-use of any Oyinbo man to coach the Super Eagles as we have a lot of talents here in Nigeria. “Nucleus Ancestors demanded that he should be sacked before it blossoms into a malignant cancerous ulcer, because he was deliberately imported into Nigeria to kill the spirits of our enterprising, energetic and young soccer stars as well as that of sports administration and development in Nigeria. “We have a lot of indigenous coaches that can handle the team and other ones like the Golden Eaglets”. Maharaj Ji expressed his happiness over the defeat of Egypt and Sudan by the Super Eagles of Nigeria stressing, that, “the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), led by Amaju Pinnick can see that we don’t need any Oyinbo man to coach our national team at all. I told you Super Eagles of Nigeria will fly high with the sack of Gernot Rohr. He stressed that with Austin Eguavoen as the coach, the Super Eagles of Nigeria will bring the AFCON to Nigeria. POLL “Nigeria, particularly the NFF, led by Pinnick should not entertain the thought of sacking Eguavoen and replacing him with any Oyinbo coach after the tournament as this may spell doom for the Super Eagles in the future.