LAGOS – A week after their appointment by Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, the new directors appointed for the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) have formally assumed office. This is as Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director General, NCAA, has charged the new appointees to put in their best to ensure the growth of the agency in particular and the industry in general. Nuhu, particularly urged those coming from the private sector to be patient and be willing to learn the civil service rules to succeed in the mandate given to them by the government. Senate Passes Nigerian Airspace Management Agency Bill JUST IN: Air Passengers Protest Azman Flight Cancellations In… Recall that Sirika had last made 35 appointments to various aviation agencies, including the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Accident Investigation Bureau – Nigeria (AIB-N), Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET) and NCAA. Six directors were deployed to the NCAA by the government. Though, the appointments, deployment and redeployment generated a mild controversy among stakeholders and analysts in the sector who claimed that 26 of the appointees were from a particular zone in the country, while only nine were from the south, including one appointee from the South East. Those deployed to NCAA as directors are Adamu Wakil, Director, Human Resources, Capt. Chris Najomo, Director, Air Transport Regulation (ATR), Babagio Agio; Director, Operations, Licensing and Training Standards (OLTS), Odunowo Tayib, Director, Aerodrome and Airspace Standard (AAS), Sani Bilkisu; Director, Finance and Accounts and Ajiboye Isiaka; Airworthiness Standards (AWS). At the handover ceremony, which took place in Abuja on Thursday, Nuhu stated that it would take time for somebody who had spent all his life in the private sector to fit into the civil service and understand the regulations. POLL To address this challenge, Nuhu said, arrangements are being put in place for an in-house training for the new directors to assist them seamlessly fit into the system. He, however, emphasised that the new Directors are experienced in their various fields, hoping that they would use their many years and wealth of experience in the sector to positively impact the agency. Nuhu specifically pointed out that Wakili, for instance, has 35 years of experience in the civil service and would use this experience to properly guide the agency to stay on the right path and move forward. He declared that his addition to the agency would impact positively on the agency. He said: “We need experienced civil servants to guide us on matters of civil service rules and regulations to ensure that we keep the boat in the correct way, we don’t want to run afoul of any government rules or regulations, it is a very good addition to the NCAA and we really welcome him,” BREAKING: Pwajok Takes Over From Akinkuotu As NAMA MD Why SIFAX Group Is Interested In Airport Concession – Chairman In his response, Wakili promised to fit into the big shoes left behind by the former director and try his best with the support and cooperation of the director-general of the agency. “I consider you my boss, my leader and I promise to give you 100 plus loyalty by God’s grace and ensure we go by the rules,” he said. On his part, Najomo said the appointment came to him as a huge surprise and lauded Sirika for counting him worthy to serve his fatherland in this capacity. “It is a well-deserved appointment and I know that I have a lot to do, I will work religiously with other directorates to get things done and am ready to work with everyone as a family to make sure we are on the same page”. The highlight of the ceremony was the handing over of notes by the former directors to their successors. Sirika had last week through a circular with the reference number: FMA/PS/APPT/CEO/014/1/21, signed on behalf of the minister by S.D. Muhammad, Director, Human Resource Management, Ministry of Aviation, addressed to the Managing Director of FAAN, dated January 12, 2022, conveyed the re-appointment and deployment of Directors and Special Assistants in the Office of the Honourable Minister of Aviation and agencies. The circular also stated that officers deployed to the minister’s office would continue to draw their salaries and other entitlements from the agencies of deployment, while handing and taking over exercise were to be completed before the close of work on Friday, January 21, 2022. For instance, seven of the recruits were deployed to the office of the minister of aviation, while 28 others were deployed to various aviation agencies as directors. Sic personnel were deployed to NCAA as directors in the exercise, NAMA had four, FAAN; seven, AIB-N; four and the NiMET had seven appointments.