EJIKEME OMENAZU, SAM OGIDAN LAGOS ABUJA – The National Chairman of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorcha Ayu, has cautioned Nige­rians not to expect any­thing better from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in this year 2022. Ayu, who in his new year message of hope, urged the citizens not to give up, warned that like the APC, all bad things must come to an end, adding that under this re­gime, the lives of Nigeri­ans had been a living hell. Mbaka Admonishes Other Priests Condemning Kanu Insecurity: Probe Alleged Misuse Of Security Votes By Govs,… Ayu, who said that 2022 was a year of hope, urged Nigerians to mobilise “and get this evil out of your lives”. According to him, “Do not expect anything bet­ter from the APC in 2022. They will still make your life nasty, brutish, and short.” Similarly, analysts have taken a hard look at various indices and maintained that the just ended 2021 remains the worst so far for the coun­try. Some of the indices which they used to as­sess the year included the economy, value of the Naira against the Dollar, security, infrastructure, citizens’ welfare, as well as peace in the country, among others. They also took a look at the incoming 2022, and concluded that there might be nothing much to cheer about, even as they admonished Nige­rians to remain hopeful and prayerful POLL One of the analysts, Comrade Debo Ade­niran, the Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corrup­tion and Open Leadership (CACOL), who spoke ex­clusively to Sunday Inde­pendent, stated that as far as 2021 was concerned, it was a year of rhetoric by the government and polit­ical leaders. He said: “People’s ex­pectations were not met. The hope that there would be better infrastructure, better welfare and that security would be better was dashed. The economy plummeted, conditions of service became unbear­able. “A lot of people lost their jobs. Some busi­nesses could not operate. Crimes and criminalities, like kidnapping, mass murder, banditry rose to unprecedented level in different parts of the country, especially the North West, though they still exist in North East. “Killings by unknown gunmen reached a cre­scendo in South East. Agitations for ethnic na­tionalism got to the peak. Those agitating for Bi­afra Republic and Yoruba nation became louder and had to be subdued by the federal authorities.” He added: “There is nothing to cheer about in 2021, but we shall con­tinue to hope for a better tomorrow.” PSG’s Messi, Three Others Test Positive For COVID-19 Bandits Free Two More Abducted Kaduna Baptist Students In respect of 2022, he said: “Insecurity has gone down in South West, South South. “South East is already taking the issue of un­known gunmen which was also attributed to IPOB. “The unknown gun­men were not as bold as they were before. It is be­lieved that they will be caged. So there is hope for a better new year. “National economy may improve if there is no fear of bandits. Issue of bandits and kidnap­ping are going down. The IPOB has suspended its sit-at-home. The ac­tivities of the unknown gunmen have reduced. “Trade and commerce will improve in those places. It is in North West that insecurity still abounds. People in Kadu­na, Niger are in fear. But, once it is tackled, there will be improvement.” Another activist, poli­tician cum cleric, Bishop Funso Awe, maintained that from all indications, 2022 would not be better. He said: “I am not a prophet of doom. I align myself with former Pres­ident Olusegun Obasanjo. He said that nothing can improve under this Pres­ident Muhammadu Bu­hari regime. “The New Year, 2022 is an election year. From this year, it will be about those who want to hold one position or another. In a year before general elections, there is no gov­ernance. “This regime is going. Even the money for proj­ects will be diverted into politics, both at the feder­al and state levels. So, Ni­gerians should not expect any miracle in 2022. “What you see in the morning determines what happens in the eve­ning. With rumoured plans for the removal of oil subsidy, there will be increase in fuel price. “President Muhamma­du Buhari will take cer­tain decisions that will not be popular with the people because he is not coming back after 2023. “I think Nigerians should buckle their belts and prepare for tougher 2022.”