LAGOS – Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Ikeja Branch and Getjob Nigeria organised a job and Career Fair on January 15, for the unemployed, having about 1,000 job seekers, with some physically attending at the ven­ue, while many others hooked online via zoom, Facebook and other social platforms, seeking recruitments to fill up existing vacancies in the participating companies. The Fair had about 12 blue chip companies supporting it with scores of vacancy open­ings and HR personnel to rightly advise the applicants on what to do in securing jobs from such organisations. In his opening remarks, Engineer Bamidele Idris, facil­itator and President of Getjobs. com, said, “The job fair is our modest contribution to reduc­ing unemployment in the coun­try which is 33% from available data. If you critically consider this, you will agree this is massive compared to the past which is less than 20%.” Abia APC Women Threaten To Go Naked At National Secretariat Court Remands Woman 55, Over Alleged Trafficking Of Ladies For… The notion of applicants is that there are no jobs out there, but the fact remains that there are jobs but most don’t know how to access those jobs, owing to lack of knowledge of what is required or lacked the value that would match the vacan­cies available, which the Fair is about to address,” he added. Engr. Tosin Ogunmola, Chairman, NSE, Ikeja Branch said, “This job fair is very im­portant to us and that is why it is the first in the year 2022, and strategically hosted early in the year so we can get into the year on a promising note. “One of the things the branch set out to do is to serve as a centre of value for its members. That is why we put up an event like this not only for members of our profession, but also we expanded the scope of the event to cover other dis­ciplines.” In his lecture, Mr. Aba­yomi Alli, Manufacturing Director, Unilever PLC, said, “How many of us have what is referred to as differentiating competencies that sets us apart from other people, making an employer look at you and say I want to have this person. You got to have a peculiar value you are bringing into the organisa­tion to enable them reckon with you rather than waiting for them to evaluate you to know what you can deliver.” Mrs. Taiwo Dayo-Abatan, Group Head, Human Capital Development, Primera African Finance Company, asked, why are many applicants turned down despite attending many job fairs, having knowledge of how to properly present them­selves to job interviewers and after several grooming? POLL She then explained, “The world of work has changed. What you might have been taught in the past are no lon­ger working; you also need to understand your value, know what the employer out there needs and lastly you have to change your mindset that jobs are not available.