Akwa Ibom State government has reiterated its commitment towards ensuring the connection of the 2,274 gazetted villages to the national grid, in line with its power-for- all initiative. Recall that Governor Udom Emmanuel had announced December 2021 as deadline for attainment of power for all in the state. In a chat with newsmen  in Uyo on Thursday, the Hon. Commissioner for Power & Petroleum Development,  Dr. John Etim  said the state government, in line with the policy, has so far approved and procured 470 distribution transformers to 31 council areas in the state. Journalist’s  Home Burnt As Akwa Ibom Fire Service Remains… Akwa Ibom Seals 12 Quack Medical Laboratories Etim says government  has also earmarked 32,000 units of prepaid meters for installation in homes and businesses, commencing in the metropolitan areas of the state. “We have so far distributed and installed 12,000 units of prepaid meters and are still  expecting additional units of meters from the Federal Government through the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP)”. he said Explaining the key foundations of the initiative, the Power and Petroleum Commissioner said the programme targets at; “Connection of villages to the national grid, Metering solutions, which involved the provision of prepaid meters, and Network optimization”. Etim who applauded Governor Udom Emmanuel for the initiative and his commitment to see it through,  explained that the foundations were to serve as catalysts to birth the power revolution, with the potential of providing an enabling environment for businesses to thrive, and lifting many from poverty. “We have as an administration worked tirelessly to achieve the goals under each segment. At the last count, we have attained 94% in the connection of the 2,274 gazetted villages to the national grid, and believe that we have performed remarkably well in this regards. POLL “This feat was attained through the diligence and committed support of our dear Governor, who took particular interest in the power sector. The remaining communities yet to be connected will soon be connected, so they can join the league of communities with public power. “To complement this, we tapped into the World Bank/REA Nigeria Electrification Program and investment in renewable energy, and over 25 communities have been earmarked across the state for solar powered mini-grid. Work has already started in Ini local government to build a mini grid that will supply solar powered electricity to the communities there. “The efforts of the present administration to optimize the current power network have been geared towards the continuous servicing, repairs, maintenance, and installation of major injection substations, distribution transformers, armored cables, feeder pillars, electric poles, and other capital-intensive power-related infrastructure. “The Ministry of Power and Petroleum Development, under Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration, constantly receives complaints about failed or damaged power systems. In response, the ministry, with the support of the Governor, intervenes through repairs and replacements of power equipment and accessories, as the need arises. “To give a little more detail, the AKSG has: approved, released and installed over 470 Distribution Transformers all over the 31 LGAs  constructed over 100km of both 33KV HT networks and 11KV HT networks all over the State,  completed the installations of hundreds of Feeder Pillars, and rehabilitation of over 300 distribution transformer substations”. he said Jakes, Adeboye To Minister As  Carol Festival Returns To Akwa… African Regional Awards: PDP Lauds Gov. Emmanuel For His Unique… Dr Etim however regretted the activities of vandals whom he alleged to have destroyed power installations in the state,  saying that  vandalisation of power infrastructures was largely responsible for the unavailability of electricity for residents. He therefore urged citizens to abstain from such acts and vowed to subject those  caught to feel the full weight of the law.