INNOCENT OWEH As Nigerians gradually settle down to the new year 2022, there is no doubt that events that largely shaped the outgone year are still fresh in their minds. This may have also increased their expectations from the All Progressives Congress led government on whose platform President Muhammadu Buhari came to office. Wike Bags Chieftaincy Title In Enugu, Describes Ugwuanyi As… It Is Hypocritical Of Buhari To Sign Padded Budget But Refuse… Even though the year 2021 was characterised by security challenges occasioned by banditry and kidnapping, which formed the basis for assessing the government most times. One thing is also predictable for them, they are eager to see how the incumbent President will finish the race come 2023. For Buhari, the man who has been at the centre of governance from 2015 to date, has repeatedly assured Nigerians that he would not spend an extra day once the time is ripe for him to exit the corridors of power. That assurance is not lost on the people, especially since the once powerful administration of Ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo could not achieve the feat of a third term, even with all the resources at his disposal then, be that as it may, what perhaps is most paramount in the heart of Nigerians now, is what legacies would the Buhari government be leaving behind for all to compare and contrast with previous ones, when he officially bows out of office. Again, those following political developments in the country, might have observed that President Buhari is equally concerned about what Nigerians would think of him after his 8 years administration, hence has been making frantic efforts to highlight most of his achievements which many Nigerians appears to be feigning ignorance to unjustly. He has been quoted several times handing down stern warnings to his security chiefs to ensure they put an end to the persistent insecurity in the land, as he would like to leave behind a nation highly secured and united. POLL There is no gainsaying that the indices of insecurity in the country, particularly in the North East where banditry and kidnapping have held sway for years have largely defined the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, including the party that brought him on board. For many, one of the considerations that sold Buhari to the people was not just his sense of humility and disdain for corrupt tendencies, the mere fact that an ex-Army General was seeking the exalted office of presidency back then in 2015 was laced with high expectations that he would come to redeem the country from terrorism. That was the joker for the APC. Irrespective of how events have unfolded in the last six years, Buhari thinks he has done enough to salvage the situation from what he met on ground, although not many Nigerians share this same opinion with him. On the economic front, Buhari believes his policies that saw Nigeria exiting recession at several intervals, inspite of the Covid-19 pandemic, including downturn in crude oil prices at the international market, was more than glaring for all to appreciate. As the new year unfolds, which perhaps will unfold more political drama in the days ahead, Nigerians are looking up to Buhari, who took to a well crafted message on new years eve to first acknowledge shortcomings in his administration owing to insecurity and unforeseen TIB Movement Alerts On Suffering Of Nigerians In UAE Tofa Was Committed To Politics Of  Accommodation, Consensus… Be that as it may, as the year 2022 births, which many believes is an election year, preceding 2023 when a new administration will come on board, many Nigerians will be watching closely to see how the APC led government would finish the race, a fact that might also determine how their voting pattern would be tilted in the days and months ahead. economic challenges. He thereafter promised that he would intentionally leverage on the platforms provided by Information Communication Technology (ICT) to create more jobs for the teaming population in year 2022. That to some Nigerians is a welcomed development, going by the ever increasing unemployment rate in the country. What many may be worried about is that the President failed to itemise steps his ICT policies would lead to direct job creation in an economy already battered by high inflation rate and alleged plans by the same government to totally exit subsidy of petroleum products for the citizens. Buhari started his new year message for 2022 from the perspective of empathy for the people, saying we remain grateful to the Almighty God for yet another Year attained as a country, united by a common destiny and resolute in our determination to overcome the several challenges along the path to build the great and prosperous Nation of our dream. He also assessed his anti-graft policy, insisting that given the utmost priority to fighting corruption and other related offenses which have been a bane to the growth and prosperity of our dear Nation, he made major strides and breakthroughs through the innovative use of technology and forensics in the investigative and prosecutorial procedures with commendable results to show that the anti-corruption drive of the administration succeeded. “I salute the courage and resilience of all Nigerians, which was evident in 2021 as this nation, like other countries of the world, faced significant challenges that occurred as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the efforts to restore the global economy and social order”. Thereafter the President acknowledged that the persistent insecurity in certain parts of the country may have threatened to unravel the incremental gains achieved in the real sectors of the economy and in the administration’s overall objective to position the nation on the irreversible trajectory of sustainable growth and progress. He went further to assure that his government will remain resolute in its commitments and shall continue to press ahead with programmes and plans to better the country. According to the number one citizen, Nigerians should come to realise that the path to nationhood is often fraught with unpredictable difficulties and challenges, and most tried and tested nations have often prevailed through dogged determination, resilience, concerted commitment to unity, and the conviction that the whole of the nation, standing together against all odds, is by far greater and would ultimately be more prosperous and viable than the sum of its distinguishable parts. In terms of security, Buhari said his administration has given utmost attention to but will follow up to re-energize and reorganize the security apparatus and personnel of the armed forces and the police. According to him, it is on record that he has invested heavily in re-equipping the military in line with upgrading the platforms and firepower required to tackle the current challenges being faced in the country.