LAGOS – Prince Lawrence Jayeoba Adedeji Tanimowo Adebajo, the Orimolusi-elect of Ijebu Igbo, haspaid a courtesy visit to the Awujale of Ijebuland, His Royal Majesty Oba Alaiyeluwa (Dr.) Sikiru Kayode Adetona.Prince Adebajo in his entourage were the Obas of the five Quarters in Ijebu Igbo, HRH, Alaiyeluwa Oba Mufutau Yusuf, Sopenlukale of Oke Sopin, HRH, Alaiyeluwa Oba Ibitoye Solaja, Keegbo of Atikori, HRH Alaiyeluwa Oba Stephen Adeleke Adekoya, Bejeroku of Oke Agbo, HRH, Alaiyeluwa Oba Abdulrasheed Abayomi Banjo, Olokine of Ojowo andHRH, Alaiyeluwa Oba Aderemi Adewale Ogunye, Abijaparako of Japara. Also, joining the entourage of the Obas were the Chairman of the Orimolusi Coronation Committee, Otunba Femi Dinah, Olori Ebi of Ojuromi Royal Lineage, Arc. Adeyemi Kukoyi, Chairman, Ijebu Igbo Council of Elders, Engr. Bayo Dayo, Dr. Tunde Ipaye, immediate past Commissioner for Health, Ogun State and a member of the Coronation Committee and Chief Femi Omotara. His Royal Majesty Oba Alaiyeluwa (Dr.) Sikiru Kayode Adetona, while welcoming the entourage went down memory lane recapping how he became the King, bringing out lessons in unity, harmony and genuine reconciliation.He expressed joy on the choice of the Orimolusi-elect and enjoined all the five Obas in Ijebu Igbo to submit to the authority of the Orimolusi and ensure a rancour-free reign of the Oba-elect. Police Foil Attempt To Kidnap Bank Manager In Edo, Arrests 2… Emirship: Call Oluwo To Order, Group Tells Ooni, Alaafin,… He freely expressed the source of his affinity to Ijebu Igbo being his mother’s town.The five Obas pledged their allegiance to the Orimolusi-elect and promised to work towards the accelerated progress of the town. Earlier, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye introduced members of the visitation team which, according to him, is in line with the tradition and due process towards the successful coronation of the Orimolusi-elect. The Chairman of the Orimolusi Coronation Committee, Otunba Femi Dinah, introduced the Orimolusi-elect, Prince Adebajo, describing him as a man of destiny, a successful and accomplished entrepreneur, a humble, noble, God-fearing and compassionate personality who is ready to help people rise above challenges. The Orimolusi-elect, while responding to the admonition of the Awujale thanked God, the enabler of all things.He appreciated Awujale for his fatherly role in ensuring a peaceful end to the 27 years vacuum and for his endless love for Ijebu Igbo. He thanked the Elders of Ijebu Igbo, Members of the Ojuromi Royal family, the Warrant Chiefs and all well-meaning sons and daughters of the town who, with passion, sought an end to the long years of the imbroglio. POLL He prayed that his ascension to the throne will uplift Ijebu Igbo and create a bond of unity that is essential for growth.Chief Adebola Popoola, Babaloja of Ijebu North, Alhaja Sariat Adeleye, Iyaloja Akile Ijebu and other prominent sons and daughters of Ijebuland were on hand to rejoice with the Orimolusi-elect after the visitation, expressing their joy on his choice and promising to support him in his drive to move the town forward. 