LAGOS – Inner Wheel District 912 Nigeria marked the Founders’ Day with the empowerment of some Nigerians. Founded in Manchester, United Kingdom, Inner Wheel marked 98 years on January 10, and District 912 Nigeria was not left out in marking the day just like it was done all around the world. In the line of activities to mark the day, Inner Wheel District 912 Nigeria visited Isolo General Hospital where they gifted 20 expectant mothers with baby and mother kits each, with virtually all the necessities needed after birth included in the pack. Also, they visited the two babies of the new year born at the same time in just minutes apart after 12 midnight on December 31st. The two babies were presented with gifts and cash. ASUS Unveils New Zenbook 17 Fold OLED Laptop NSCDC Arrests Suspected Trafficker In Benue Thereafter, the team went to Inner Wheel Vocational Centre also in Lagos where they took stock of the various activities of clubs under it to celebrate Founders’ Day. At the vocational centre, Inner Wheel donated three wheelchairs to the Spinal Cord Injuries Association of Nigeria (SCAM); also, they gave out one wheelchair to 16 years old Master Chinedu Egenti, who was born paralysed, among other empowerments on that day. Speaking during the day-long activities, Chairman of Inner Wheel District 912 Nigeria, IWM Adefunke Olubunmi Shinaba, said the Founders’ Day was being marked globally, noting that in the spirit of empowering people, they decided to visit the hospital, among other places. “This is being celebrated globally because Inner Wheel is 98 years old today. “In our nature of reaching and empowering, we decided to come to this hospital, which is not the first time we come here. POLL “Because our theme for this year is ‘Pink First’ and that is to take care of women, we decided to visit the pregnant women at this hospital with the baby and mother kits. They will live and their children will live,” she said. Speaking similarly, PDC Yinka Ayanwale, Project Chairman of Inner Wheels Day, said: “We decided toi celebrate this with the women. We asked the hospital to get us 20 pregnant women and they listed the probably with the way and time they registered with the hospital,” she said. Meanwhile, the mother of Gbajabiamila Mohammed, one of the first babies of the year, Mrs Kabirat Gbajabiamila, thanked Inner Wheel for the gesture and prayed to God to bless the ladies. Also thanking Inner Wheel, Mrs Esther Amadi, a friend to the mother of 16 years old Chinedu born paralysed, who brought the boy to Inner Wheel, said the family of the boy would be very happy given that getting a wheelchair had been their major concern. “This has been a priority for his mother and I know she would be very happy for Inner Wheel. I thank you, people, very much for this. Lalong Commends Operation Safe Haven For Uniting Diverse Ethnic… Conservationists Lament Nigeria Becoming Hub For Illegal… The high point of the day’s activities was when the club under District 912 Nigeria showcased various empowerments they embarked on to mark the day.