In a bid to complement the government’s effort to make healthcare more ac­cessible to the general pub­lic, the Lion’s Club District 404B2, in partnership with Miracle Heart Foundation, has donated household items to the Paediatrics Department of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). The Chief Medical Director, Professor Ade­tokunbo O. Fabamwo, who received the items on behalf of the hospital, ex­pressed his appreciation to the club for its support and contributions over the years, noting that the Lions Club had always supported the facility. He mentioned that the club had donated the Dia­betes Clinic and Oncology Unit building in LASUTH, just as it also supported the hospital’s annexe in Gbagada. NYSC Gets Commendation On Innovative Service Delivery Absence of Governing Council Hindering AAU Progress, ASUU… Fabamwo also noted that the Lions Club of Ilupeju is working with the hospital to put up a storey-building in the hospital as well as expand the Eye Institute at the facility. The CMD said that the hospital is at a stage of development where the partnership of human­itarian organisations is required because the gov­ernment alone cannot do everything, envisaging that more private individ­uals and organisations will come forward to support the hospital’s management. In his remarks, the Gov­ernor, Lions Club District 404 B2, Lion Kayode Osinu­ga, expressed delight to partner with LASUTH and appreciated the CMD for acknowledging the support of the Club to the hospital over the years. He said the Club decid­ed to spread its tentacles further in offering assis­tance to the hospital’s Pae­diatric Department after a need assessment exercise to establish the needs of LASUTH. Osinuga said that the Club, in collaboration with Miracle Caring Heart Foundation, therefore, de­cided to support the Pae­diatric Department of LA­SUTH with Rechargeable Fans, Bedspreads and Bags for children of school age in addition to cash gifts to some indigent patients in the wards for payment of their bills. POLL Others present at the event included the Direc­tor, Clinical Services & Training, Prof. Adebow­ale Adekoya; Director, Hospital Administration & Human Resources, Mr. Kehinde Gbajumo; Direc­tor, Nursing Services, Mrs. Adebola Aina and mem­bers of the Lions Club.