IBADAN – Delays in the issuance of inter­national passports to prospec­tive travellers by the Nigerian Immigration Service may have adverse economic effects on Nigeria and the people, a 2023 ADC Presidential hopeful, Dr Favour Ayodele, has said. According to Dr. Ayodele, it has become indisputable that the current administration in the country has yet to factor in the gravity of the damage that delays in passport issuance could cost Nigeria’s economy. He said, “Since the first of­ficial Nigerian International Passport was made public in 1960, following the nation’s independence, subsequent ad­ministrations endeavored to keep up the speed in catching up with global requirements with respect to making our passports machine-readable in 1998 and biometrics-capable in 2003. Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… ASATU Projects Prosperous New Year For Ndi-Anambra “These upgrades enabled Ni­gerian citizens to continue to travel freely around the world, ensure the continual flow of in­ternational business between Nigerians and their interna­tional business counterparts, and more importantly, enable Nigerians in the diaspora to maintain legal immigration status in their second homes overseas while staying in touch with Nigeria. “It must be understood that majority of Nigerians in di­aspora require up-to-date doc­uments in order to maintain legal status for residency and work overseas. As at the last count, there were well over 16 million Nigerians living out­ side the homeland. “It would, therefore, seem like a matter of urgency to any economy-conscious adminis­tration to address what could potentially become a cog in the wheel of progress to a sector of the economy that generates about $20 billion per annum. Nigerians in diaspora remit an approximate average of $20 billion per annum.” Citing earlier publications, Ayodele said that in 2020, at the height of the COVID-19 lockdown, oil and natural gas export dropped by over 40per cent, to generate $3 billion ap­proximately, while remittanc­es by Nigerians in diaspora pushed the figure to $16 billion.