Ibadan Group of Entertainers, a body that comprises various Lounge and club hotspots owners in Bodija has reacted to a recent press release by residents of Bodija Estate on club activities around the community. A statement on Wednesday released by the group’s spokesman, Badmus Akeem, stated that the lounge and club activities around Bodija estate are not situated to inconvenience the resident in any way but a means to contribute their own quota to the development of the state. According to the statement, “Ibadan is a city with a different class, hence, while there is provision for some to enjoy themselves, it is also an avenue to provide job opportunities which will directly boost the economy of the community and Ibadan at large. Why I Want To Be Oyo Governor again – Alao-Akala Bodija Violence: 26-Year-Old Victim To Undergo Surgeries On… “We have not brought the idea of citing lounge and clubs to the environment to disturb the sleep of the residents, rather, our motives are to support the government in boosting the economy of the community and Ibadan through job creation. “The lounge and club activities have created thousands of jobs opportunities for people within and outside this community. “Ibadan being a city of the elite, we also believed that this will to some extent increase the social life of the people and as well provide relaxation space for people who have worked themselves and need to cool off the stress for the day. “Aside from that, the rate at which landed properties are valued has increased since the advent of our operation which is an advantage to landowners and estate valuers in the community. “It is surprising that this good intention of ours is being used against us by people who should see this opportunity from a positive point of view that we have mentioned above but decided to go otherwise. POLL “We hereby use this medium to urge Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde to support the developmental view of ours to ensure that we reduce poverty in the land”.