President Muhammadu Buhari has again expressed displea­sure over the spate of insecu­rity in the country, noting that he is overwhelmed by the security situa­tion in the North-West. Buhari, who seized the oppor­tunity of his visit to Sokoto State to inaugurate a new three million metric tons per annum BUA Cement Sokoto Line 4 factory, told the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abu­bakar III, who he also paid a condo­lence visit at his palace, that he has given specific instructions to the Nigerian military to deal decisively with bandits terrorising the region. Buhari said while the situation in the North-East and South-South of the country has improved compared to when he assumed office in 2015, the challenges in the North- West are different. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… Tanker Explosion: Delta Will Take Steps To Avert Reoccurrence… “Every day, we are wor­ried about what is happening in the North-West. When we came, if Nigerians are to be fair to us, they know the con­dition in the North-East and the South-South, but what is happening now in the North- West is what has honestly overwhelmed me. “The same people, the same culture, killing each other, stealing each other’s property. We are going to do our best and the military and law enforcement agencies have been given a clear order that they shouldn’t spare any bandit or terrorist. “We are going to hand over a secure country better than we inherited it.” Recall that in the outgone year 2021, activities of ban­dits and kidnappers became common in Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara, such that a good number of citizens were ab­ducted in demand for ransom. In Sokoto State, in particu­lar, over 30 travellers were re­ported to have fallen victims, with many meeting their untimely death and others kidnapped. POLL While commiserating with the government and people of the state over the recent loss of lives and prop­erty as a result of outrageous attacks by bandits and oth­er criminal gangs, Buhari assured the people that he remains unrelenting in his resolve to put an end to the heinous criminal activities in the state and other parts of the country. Before departing for Abu­ja, Buhari penned down some messages in the condolence register, “My condolences to the Sultanate, the govern­ment, and people of Sokoto State over the recent mind­less killings by bandits and terrorists. “Nigeria shall win the bat­tle over evil”.