LAGOS – The Lagos State Government has moved to collaborate with the Building Collapse Prevention Guild (BCPG) for the prevention of building collapse in the State. Dr. Idris Salako, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, stated this while receiving members of the BCPG in Alausa. He emphasised that the Lagos State Government was desirous of collaborating with professional bodies, especially the BCPG to stem the tide of building collapse in the State, noting that it was high time the narratives of the State was devoid of incidents of building collapse. ARCON: Architects Council Wins Draughtsmen Over Right To Design… Ogun Housing Scheme: Obasanjo Hails Abioduns’ Strides He urged the Guild to be more forthcoming in its relationship with the Ministry towards ensuring adequate monitoring of the physical environment, with a view to eradicating all forms of illegality in building construction in Lagos State. His words: “we need to work with BCPG , which comprises tested professionals, to find lasting solution to building collapse in Lagos State . We need to jointly understand the causes and work together to find lasting solutions”. Engr. Abiola Kosegbe, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, emphasised the need for professionals to take control of the building construction industry by reporting illegal practices and helping in shutting out quackery. She added that the online approval platform of the Ministry, which is about to take off fully, would provide an unequalled opportunity to validate professionals on building construction projects through the platforms of their various professional bodies. Engr. Eddy Atumonyogo, the President of the Building Collapse Prevention Guild, welcomed the extension of collaboration to the Guild by the Ministry and called for the codification of buildings to ease enforcement in the State. POLL Noting the importance of enforcement in every stage of building construction, the BCPG leader pledged the support of the organisation towards the realisation of the State’s aspiration for a sustainable smart Lagos, where incidents of building collapse were relegated to the background. Others at the meeting include the Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Hon. Ganiyu Adele Ayuba, Special Adviser, E-GIS and Physical Planning, Dr. Olajide Babatunde, Past Presidents BCPG, Arc. Akinola George.