Tammy Abraham was involved in a car crash en route to Roma training on Monday morning, according to reports. According to La Gazzetta dello Sport, Abraham crashed his Porsche Cayenne into another driver close to his apartment whilst heading to Roma’s Trigoria training base. Nobody was hurt in the incident and Abraham is said to have gone to check on the other driver. Says Ortom Had No Hand In Selection Of Ochi’Idoma -CPS Don Cautions Against Setting Indiscriminate Bush Fires No police intervention was necessary after the minor incident and it is believed he continued to training as normal with Jose Mourinho’s side. A few weeks ago, Abraham was forced to pay a £660 fine for driving over double the speed limit in a black Lamborghini during his time at Chelsea. The 24-year-old was clocked driving at 47mph in a 20mph zone in Putney, west London and handed six points on his licence at Bromley Magistrates Court. He was caught speeding in April in his £170,000 Lamborghini Urus V8 Auto and was also ordered to pay £66 to fund victim services and costs of £100 giving him a total bill of £826. There is no indication or suggestion that Abraham was speeding or breaking any road laws in the latest incident in Italy. POLL Abraham has enjoyed an excellent start to life in Serie A since leaving Chelsea in a permanent deal last summer. He has scored six Serie A goals and added another six in the UEFA Europa Conference League. Speaking in November, he claimed new manager Mourinho had turned him into a “monster” at the Stadio Olimpico. Asked what Mourinho had taught him so far, Abraham replied: “Just be a monster really! SON Strategises To Enhance Quality In Oil And Gas Sector Malcomines Win Jos International Polo Tournament Abraham has quickly found his feet in Italy under new manager Jose Mourinho “I think one of the things he said was I was too much of a nice player and that you have to show that aggressiveness as you’re getting older as a striker. “It’s not always about being nice on the pitch. You need that character, you need that presence to frighten defenders and I think that’s something I’m learning and getting better at.