LAGOS  – Having lost power after 16 years at the helm, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is doing everything possible to reclaim power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). More so, the main opposition party believes it can stage a comeback during the next general elections by defeating the APC. For PDP leaders, the inauguration of the new National Working Committee (NWC) christened the ‘Rescue Team’ effectively kick-started its journey to the 2023 general elections and its quest to take over government from the APC as the ruling party. The PDP had suffered a humiliating defeat in the 2015 general elections, where it lost control of the presidency, its majority status in the National Assembly, as well as majority of the governorship seats. Delta 2023 Governorship: We Will Not Oppose The Choice Of DC-23… 2023: Abia Foremost Philanthropist, Chief Omerekpe Declares For… Efforts by the PDP to regain power in 2019 was unsuccessful, as the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, lost the poll to President Muhammadu Buhari. Therefore, for leaders and supporters of the opposition party, the 2023 general elections present a golden opportunity for the PDP to regain power. Although the next general election has been scheduled to be held in February 2023 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), development in the political circle has shown that the opposition PDP has commenced its preparations for the elections. It has bombarded the media space in the last months with the campaign of becoming the preferred political party for the next election. Longing For Power Former National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, has repeatedly mentioned in all the press statements issued on behalf of the party that, “Nigerians desire that the PDP return to power”. The opposition party has hinged its dream of returning to power on the insecurity and the economic challenges currently being faced by the country and have predicted doomsday ahead for the country that would necessitate Nigerians to seek refuge under its umbrella in 2023. POLL On several occasions, during the inauguration of some projects executed by his administration, the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has told the ruling APC to prepare its handover notes at the federal level for the PDP in 2023. Wike boasted that Nigerians were earnestly waiting for the PDP to take over power in order to ensure good governance in the country. He once said that, “The hope of this country depends on PDP”, and that the party will kick the APC out of the centre come 2023. The party’s former National Publicity Secretary, who has also been in the forefront of the campaign to portray the ruling party in a bad light, has never hesitated to denounce the handling of the economy, the fight against corruption and the worsening insecurity situation in the country by the APC-led administration at the centre. Ologbondiyan has always been of the view that by 2023, Nigerians will reject the ruling party and send it out of Aso Rock Villa. He argued that Nigerians are tired of the APC and are anxiously waiting for the PDP to return to power. Part of his allegations includes unfulfilled electoral promises, the increasing wave of insecurity across the country, looting of about N15 trillion from the national treasury, despite the war against corruption and the mismanagement of the economy. He said: “Having stripped our national coffers, the APC is now using its illegal caretaker committee to attempt to set the narrative of the empty treasury to validate their further looting of funds meant for the 2021 budget. By now, the APC ought to know that such narratives cannot fly when Nigerians are already aware that its leaders stashed away over N15 trillion stolen from our national coffers.” Delta Guber 2023: My Vision Is To Consolidate On Okowa’s… 2023: Ex Police Affairs Minister Tips Fayemi For Presidency Salisu Mohd Lukman, Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), a few days ago, accused the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of working on a lie that will end up foisting the PDP again on Nigerians in 2023. According to the APC chieftain, the APC leadership is working on the fallacy that anybody the party imposes on Nigerians during the party’s presidential primaries will sweep the poll in 2023, a proposition he said cannot stand. He said such a lie will only pave way for PDP’s return to power, adding that the ongoing plot to postpone the scheduled February convention of the party will spell doom for the ruling party. He also accused the CECPC of deliberately pushing for postponement of the convention, working in accord with those he said are campaigning to have the election of the APC NWC and the presidential primary held on the same day. In either case, he alerted that the party is only working hard to launch the 2019 Zamfara State Election debacle at the national scale ahead of the 2023 General Election, noting that failure of the CECPC to give a definite date for the convention as well name the convention subcommittees has sustained the doubt among party stakeholders. “It is very difficult to excuse the CECPC from the campaign to postpone the February Convention. If the CECPC is not interested in the postponement of the Convention from the agreed February 2022 date, why is it difficult to make a formal announcement about the date and venue of the Convention? “Statutorily, by the requirement of the Electoral Act, the party is expected to serve at least 21 days’ notice of the Convention to INEC. Which basically means that if the Convention is to hold any day before February 28, 2021, the notice to INEC should be given on or before February 7, 2022” he pointed out. Lukman said the party and APC leaders appear not to have learned any lessons from the concluded Anambra State governorship election, believing “that agendas set in 2014 or 2019 are sufficient to respond to contemporary challenges, which post 2023 governance will be expected to respond to.” PDP’s 2023 Predictions Mount National Chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu, a few weeks ago, sent a strong message to the leadership of the APC and its government, saying by March or April 2023, there may not be a party called APC in the country. Ayu, who stated this at Government House, Makurdi, when he addressed party stakeholders, described the ruling APC as “a contraption” with neither programme nor ideological position, predicting its collapse by the next general election year. Ayu reiterated that PDP would win at least 25 of the states in the 2023 governorship polls. The former senate president assured the stakeholders, who included aspirants to various elective positions, that the party would not impose candidates on the people ahead of the 2023 general election. A statement from Ayu’s media office said, “By March/April 2023, there will be no APC in Nigeria. APC is a contraption, a contraption to win power, but they have no programme or any ideological position on what to do with power. “Therefore, we will be coming back in every state and at the federal level to take over power, with a coherent programme of action, and with which we will implement workable policies, as we were doing before.” He bemoaned the deplorable security situation in the country, especially the daily killings, but said Nigerians should not lose hope, as PDP was coming to rescue and rebuild the country. “Do not lose hope, Nigerians,” Ayu stated, adding, “Do not lose hope in Nigeria just because a small group of people have come to destroy her. Let us join hands and get rid of them, and reclaim and rebuild our country.” He charged party faithful to intensify work at the ward levels so as to commence the rescue mission from bottom up, adding that the immediate task of the party is to ensure victory in Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. Ayu said the party would work vigorously to regain leadership of the National Assembly, enlist more women and youths, as well as halt defection from PDP to other political parties. He said, “For the presidency, we will be fair to all aspirants. There will be no favoured aspirant. We will provide a level playing ground for everyone. “The next president will be a product of the PDP. We will come up with a strong manifesto indicating what programme will be given to our candidate to prosecute, unlike the APC that had no programme in 2015. “We urge Nigerians not to lose hope, because a small collection of people have come together to divide us. We are productive people, who are respected across the world. Do not allow the current leadership to destroy the tenacity of this nation. “PDP will be back with good policy, the economy will come back to life, and we will start exporting again. As a party, we have done the needful. We will work hard to rebuild our nation and shame the foreign detractors, who say Nigeria will break up. “We will be at the forefront of world affairs again. I’m determined to follow in the footsteps of Aper Aku, JS Tarka, and Adasu. APC is using propaganda to make it look like PDP is gone. We have mapped out strategies and agenda to take the party to the height. We will work as a team, leading the army to victory. Every member of the party will be carried along. PDP will fight to win Ekiti and Osun governorship elections.” While many of the PDP’s chieftains have continued to give clues as to how they intend to dislodge the APC come 2023, the ruling APC believes that it is going to be a hard time for the main opposition party, considering how its party members are joining the APC. Chairman, Jigawa State chapter of the APC, Aminu Sani Gumel, in response to the PDP’s claims that the party will take back power in the 2023 election, explained that the APC has fulfilled all its promises made to Nigerians before the 2015 general election. While insisting that it is a mirage and self-deception for PDP to think of taking back power in the coming 2023 general election, Gumel said the good leadership of APC forced thousands of PDP loyalists to defect to the party in Jigawa State and the country at large. He said the party is presently working to ensure the unity of the party ahead of the coming election. “We are presently working to console all the aggrieved members and woo more opposition members ahead of the 2023 general election,” the APC Chairman stated. Making 2023 Polls Crucial For the new national publicity secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, the primary goal of the PDP in the 2023 Presidential election is to install a new government. Ologunagba, a former member of the House of Representatives, in his official statement as spokesperson of the PDP, reiterated the readiness of the party to send the APC packing in the next election cycle. The statement read: “The goal of the new leadership of the party under the national chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu is to install a PDP government in 2023 and ensure that our country becomes more united, improved security of lives and property, improve the economy by implementing well thought out policies and programs, pay special attention to infrastructure especially electricity and rail transport.” That said, the publicity scribe slammed the ruling party, blaming it for the legion of challenges facing the country today. “Under the APC, Nigerians continue to experience insecurity ravaging the country, unprecedented unemployment, an economy in shambles, almost collapsing, the Naira falling daily, industries are packing up daily, education standards falling, the health sector in comatose, infrastructure decay and stagnation and scaring disunity and suspicion pervades the country by nepotism and tribalism. “I wish to congratulate Nigerians for the beginning of a new dawn and the start of a process signalling the exit of the most clueless, most uninformed and most embarrassing regime since independence. “The National Working Committee of the PDP appreciates the unprecedented courage displayed by Nigerians in the last six years of the corrupt, inept, inhumane and wicked APC government. The NWC urges Nigerians to be steadfast and vote for the PDP in the 2023 election to rescue and rebuild our country Nigeria,” he added. In November, Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, said in a statement that the PDP is ready to take over power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023, noting that the commendation that trailed the successful conduct of the national convention of the PDP, shows that Nigerians will vote for the opposition party in the 2023 presidential election. “Indeed, the unity of purpose and the spirit of sportsmanship witnessed at the event, despite all the challenges, further underscore the democratic credentials of our party as the platform for all Nigerians in the collective determination to rescue our nation from the stranglehold of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and return her to the path of good governance, national cohesion and economic prosperity,” the statement read in part. Elumelu further stated that, “The PDP national convention further highlights the readiness, capability and willpower of the PDP to regain power in 2023 and end the life of misery, poverty, hunger, bloodletting, unemployment, suppression and humongous corruption that has been the hallmark of the APC failed and anti-people administration. “The widespread interest by Nigerians and the nationwide applause that trailed the successful conduct of the convention confirm the resolve of our citizens to march with the PDP to take back our country from the suppressive grip of APC, come 2023. “It is therefore imperative that we remain united and ensure that all interests within the party are carried along in the task ahead. We must continue to foster an all-inclusive platform which provides a level playground for all. “We must bear in mind that the task before us is an enormous one, given the immensity of the confidence Nigerians repose on our party as their only hope.” Elumelu said the minority caucus of the national assembly will continue to support the PDP, adding that the “task of rescuing Nigeria from the devastation of the APC is paramount to all at this point in our national life.” Daunting Task Ahead National Secretary of the PDP, Samuel Anyanwu, who recently restated the party’s commitment to resist any attempt to manipulate the 2023 general elections in favour of the APC, said the PDP would present a presidential candidate that will be acceptable to all Nigerians in the 2023 polls, adding that Nigerians were fed up with the lies of the ruling APC and the President Buhari government. Anyanwu stated this while speaking with journalists in Amaimo, Ikeduru Council of Imo State, insisting that the PDP was prepared to reclaim power in 2023, because APC will collapse immediately after Buhari’s administration. “What we have done so far will tell you that PDP is prepared to take over power in 2023. We have made it obvious that whoever will emerge as PDP presidential candidate in 2023, will be someone all Nigerians will accept. “This will also apply in Imo, my home state. There will be political tsunami and huge exodus from other political parties to PDP and there is no doubt that PDP will take over power again in the state. “Make no mistakes, once the Buhari government ends, APC will die. Buhari is the face of APC and as soon as he leaves, the party will become a lame dog,” he said. He added that the PDP lost in 2015 not because it was not popular, but because the country had a God-fearing person in President Goodluck Jonathan, who did not want power at the expense of Nigerians’ blood. “And in 2019, APC lost, but the party refused to concede defeat. This time around, Nigerians will resist any attempt to thwart their mandate. And the only way Nigerians will be happy again is when PDP regains power,” he stated. However, pundits say beyond rhetoric, the task ahead of the new PDP NWC is daunting, as it requires a great deal of work to lead the opposition party to victory in 2023. Even the national chairman of the party agrees it is not going to be a walk in the park. Ayu, while speaking at a valedictory session for the immediate past NWC, in Abuja, last month, said the journey ahead of the opposition party is going to be tough. He said: “the journey ahead is going to be turbulent and rough. Many people have attributed to me all sorts of capabilities. I’m sorry I am not Jesus Christ, neither am I Prophet Mohammed; I am only a team leader who firmly believes that to run a big political party of this nature, you must work with everybody.” Nevertheless, he said the anticipated turbulence notwithstanding, the PDP will win the 2023 polls, working as a team. Regardless, political analysts say the PDP leadership must first of all resolve its internal contradictions, including issues raised by the outcome of its last national convention, and pockets of crises in some state chapters, to give fillip to its quest to “rescue” the country. Presently, no fewer than 9 state chapters of the PDP, as well as the North West chapter, are currently enmeshed in one form of crises or the other. They include: Edo, Anambra, Lagos, Osun, Oyo, Ekiti, Niger, Kebbi and Kano States. In Edo, the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, is locked in a supremacy tussle with the PDP national vice chairman, Dan Orbih, for control of the party structure in the state. In Ekiti State, party members are divided between the former governor, Ayo Fayose and his former deputy, Senator Biodun Olujimi. While in Kano, former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso is squared up against former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali over the control of the structure of the party in the state. Similarly, in Niger State, the former governor, Babangida Aliyu is up against the immediate past PDP national financial secretary, Abdulahi Mai-Basira. In Lagos, the PDP is torn between Chief Olabode George and Deji Doherty. While in Oyo State, the opposition is factionalised between Governor Seyi Makinde and former leader, House of Representatives, Mulikat Akande-Adeola. In Anambra, Osun and Kebbi chapters of the opposition party, what exists is a peace of the graveyard as the chieftains battle for the soul of the party. Besides, the intrigues, power play and horse trading that led to the emergence of the new NWC may exacerbate the schisms in the PDP, especially at the zonal levels. Besides, it has left many PDP leaders, whose ego was bruised disenchanted. The outcome of the last convention, indicates that the PDP governors have effectively taken over the control of the party structure, albeit to the chagrin of other stakeholders. Recall that immediately the PDP governors decided on the zoning of party offices, the governors were given a free hand to decide who filled the NWC seat ceded to their respective geo-political zones and micro-zoned to their states. For instance, after the chairmanship seat was zoned to the North, some leaders of the party had made spirited efforts to draft former Senate President, David Mark, into the contest. However, the governors were not comfortable with Mark. Consequently, they drafted Ayu into the contest through the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom. The former was to later emerge as the consensus candidate of the North for the chairmanship seat. In their determination to ensure that the preferred aspirants emerge, the governors wittingly shut out several eligible aspirants from contesting at the last PDP convention, by championing for a consensus for all the elective positions, except for the two deputy national chairmen.