DAMATURU – Borno Police Commission­er, Abdu Umar, has con­firmed the arrest of four miscreants in connection with the attack and bru­talisation of a female res­ident of Maiduguri, Ms. Fadila Abdulrahman, at her restaurant situated at Shehu Sanda Kyarimi Park. The suspects arrested by the Police are Bello Musa aka Al-Shabba, 24, Nasiru Abubakar a.k.a. Mane, 22, Mala Mohammed a.k.a Bobby, 30, and Ali D. Shet­tima a.k.a Ari, 25. The CP said they were arrested after Governor Babagana Zulum of Bor­no directed the security agencies to fish out the culprits and make them to face the full wrath of the law. Scores Escape Death As Fire Razes Building In Abraka Exam Malpractice: JAMB Rejects Apology From Candidate, Insists… Recall that many resi­dents took to their social media platforms alleg­ing that the incident was sponsored or directed by Hon. Ahmed Satomi, Member, Representing Jere Federal Constitu­ency of Borno State af­ter the lady accused him (Satomi) publicly on her facebook wall, an alle­gation that the Lawmak­er has since denied and exonerated himself from such act. In a recorded video which went viral on so­cial media indicated a leader of the miscreants suspected to be political thug, who was heard abus­ing the lady and threatened to kill her if she continued attacking Hon Satomi. “Be careful. Otherwise, we will waste you,” the leader of the miscreants was purported to have said in the video. Reacting in a press state­ment Hon. Satomi person­ally signed and issued to journalists on Monday, condemned the incident, and exonerated himself from the act. He said, “I, Hon Ahmed Satomi, Member House of Representatives (Jere Fed­eral Constituency of Borno State) regret that my atten­tion has been drawn to an incident that happened with Ms. Fadila Abdullar­aham last Sunday, January 22, at Shehu Sanda Kyarimi Park in Maiduguri. POLL “I am deeply saddened by the occurrence of such incident and especially to a woman, but more worri­some that this was perpe­trated under my name. “I want to categorical­ly exonerate my humble self from this act and any of such that occurs in the future. “It is on records that I am a staunch lover and supporter of economic self- reliance and develop­ment, and that has a his­tory even before I became a lawmaker representing the good people of Jere Federal Constituency. This fact has not changed and I am still on a drive to sup­porting the vulnerable and motivating many young people looking up to me as a role model.