***Says Tinubu’s Declaration Good For Democracy ABUJA – Jolted by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s declaration Monday to run for 2023 presidential election, supporters of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo have said their commitment to the nation’s number two is not been doused in anyway. The various Support groups in different statement released in Abuja said they are convinced that no Aspirant is better suited to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari and pursue the policy of the party than the Vice President. Kwara APC: Can Adamu-led Committee Reconcile Lai Mohammed,… 2023: North-Central’s Allegations Of Marginalisation Untrue –… According to OPS4Osinbajo, a support group consisting of members of the organized private sector, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is far better intellectually equipped than any current presidential aspirant for the task of leading Nigeria’s economic rejuvenation towards future greatness. “With Osinbajo, Nigeria’s organized private sector has much basis for optimism about post-2023 economic activities,” the group’s spokesman, Alhaji Abdulrahman Farouk stated in Abuja. Osinbajo’s candidature offers much hope for citizens who have high expectations about job creation, increased earnings and growth, the group said adding: “Even though an aspirant has informed Muhammadu Buhari about his 2023 ambition, the most credible option still appears to be Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and for the organized Private Sector as well as the citizenry, Osinbajo offers much fertile ground for hope to rapidly germinate. In a statement issued at The Progressive Project (TPP) office in Wuse, Abuja on Monday, the Organized Private Sector for Osinbajo group stressed that rather than mere sentiments, Nigerians must carefully weigh the past and current potentials of various candidates towards using their voter’s card responsibly in the 2023 election. POLL “Getting Nigeria’s economy to grow faster than the population is going to take a lot of consistent planning, discipline and integrity, as well as great consistency in implementation but with his sharp focus, Professor Yemi Osinbajo is expected to do well,” he stated. “The idealistic and very patriotic pursuit of various economic policies led by Osinbajo speak volumes about future potentials for people-focused policies; under his supervision, Nigeria’s social investment programmes have been ranked internationally but much more good news should unfold when he is fully in the saddle by 2023,” he added. They maintained that no declaration by any number of aspirants can douse the patriotic passion associated with those championing the cause of an Osinbajo presidency in 2023, a veiled reference to the consultation launched by Tinubu on Monday to president Muhammadu Buhari. Also speaking, Dr Aliyu Kurti the chairman of the Progressive Consolidation Group (PCG) has declared that their support for Osinbajo was borne out democratic ideal. “As genuine democrats who believe in the Progressive ideals that Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo stands for, we welcome others into the race because we strongly believe that a plurality of candidates and political parties only enhances the robustness of our democracy. 2022: God Has Anointed Me To Be Next Ekiti Governor – ODEP Preserve Nigeria’s Unity, Cede Power to the South-East… “As I once stated, every well-informed Nigerian knows that PCG is the very first 2023 support group to be formally recognised by our progressive party, APC, and we have never sought to prevent or discourage others from following in our footsteps because Vice-President Osinbajo will not subscribe to dirty political games that some typically desperate politicians play. “We are mobilising for Prof Yemi Osinbajo, a man who believes in the rule of law, a man who is a democrat and a great progressive too; nothing in his antecedents ever speaks of anti-democratic standards. “Therefore, we do not only welcome the declaration by an aspirant; in fact, we anticipate having half a dozen more, so that Osinbajo would emerge from a very rich array of choices offered to the nation by the APC. “The nature of the political competition that we envisage shall be one characterized by politics without bitterness; to this end, all members of pro-Osinbajo groups have been instructed to address other aspirants with courtesy and avoid getting drawn into the usual mudslinging that characterized Nigerian politics. “As to the chances of success, we are very confident that Osinbajo will enter and win the race by virtue of all his good qualities and citizens’ expectations to see him build on the foundation laid by President Muhammadu Buhari,” Dr. Kurfi stated.