BAMIDELE OGUNWUSI Of all the policies of the Central Banks of Nigeria (CBN) in the year 2021, the ban on forex to operators of Bureaux De Change (BDCs) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the launch of e-Naira were two important decisions that shaped the finance sector in the country. Analysts at Afrinvest in its annual Banking Sector Report (BSR) for 2021, titled, Resilience Amidst Endemic and Pandemic, said they expected complete sanity in the FX market given the huge FX needs that are met outside the official delineation. Nigeria Stumbles Off Starting Line In 2022 African Expansion Is Part Of Our Corporate Strategic Plan –… Many, however, believe that the ban on FX Sales to BDCs is a case of a “sacrificial goat”. The analysts said: “In a similar fashion to the January 2016 episode, the CBN governor at the end of the July 2021 MPC meeting placed a ban on FX sales to BDC operators and suspended the issuance of new BDC licences over allegations of FX racketeering. This was followed by a directive to DMBs to set up an FX teller desk in all branches to cater to approved FX transactions. “Although this development could help boost the FX and commission income of DMBs (due to increased transactions), we are less optimistic on how it would restore complete sanity in the FX market given the huge FX needs that are met outside the official delineation. “Besides, the import-substitution objective of the FG cum CBN which led to the blacklisting of 41 items from accessing FX at the official window in 2016 has not yielded any significant fruit that could help reduce the demand for FX in the parallel market. POLL “Currency crisis worsened in the aftermath of the 2016 ban of FX sales to BDCs, despite the instruction to commercial banks to fill the void. This on one hand was driven by the insufficient FX supply to banks by the CBN, and on the other hand, customers’ apathy to banks’ cumbersome processes”. Interestingly, the CBN had in the last 20 months expanded its list of banned items to 45 items (Maize, Fertiliser, Milk, and Sugar being the new additions), while foreign capital inflow declined 61.1% y/y in H1:2021 to N2.9tn. This is reminiscent of the 2016 trend, especially as the import-substitution objective of the FG has not yielded desired results. This issue of clearing backlog in the forex market is one of the important reasons analysts believe will help the market a great deal. Clearing unmet demand for dollars would go a long way to helping Nigeria escape from the prospect of further currency devaluation, analysts and executives say. “Consequently, demand for FX at the parallel market remained elevated, aided by the large market already created by the CBN’s ban on FX sales to importers of the blacklisted 41 import items. By extension, these fueled a steep rise in the inflation rate (Jan ‘16: 9.6% to Dec’16: 18.6%) and the deterioration of offshore investors’ confidence which resulted in large capital flow reversal of 67.2% y/y to $1.8bn in 2016”, the analysts said. Buhari Assures MAN FG Will Address Forex Shortages For… Flexible Exchange Rate Answer To Nigeria’s Forex Woes – CPPE “Rather than devalue the naira further, the authorities need to work on addressing market confidence, which may start with clearing of demand backlog, both from foreign investors and manufacturers,” says Abiola Rasaq, former chief economist at UBA Group. Nigeria has an official window for foreign currency transactions where the naira is priced much higher against the dollar than on the black market. The authorities have sought to support the official rate with a range of restrictions on dollar demand, and in July, it ended the sale of forex to bureau de change operators. Despite the ban on forex, Aminu Gwadabe, President of the Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), said they are still providing foreign exchange services. He said: “BDCs are licensed to provide retail FX services, including buying from the public and also selling to end-users for allowable transactions namely Personal Travel Allowance (PTA), Business Travel Allowance (BTA), payment of medical and school fees. He added that while the dollar sale from CBN had helped in enhancing supply, the fact remains that BDCs are empowered to source FX from other sources and also to provide various services to members of the public. “While the CBN has stopped dollar sales to BDCs, it has not cancelled their operating licences, or banned them from providing FX services to members of the public”, he added. “At ABCON, we urge our members to see the CBN pronouncement as a wakeup call and opportunity to widen their customer base and deepen their business. ABCON has always worked with the CBN to ensure proper working of the FX market and in line with this principle, we will engage with the apex bank to address and resolve all the issues that led to the recent action”, he said. Earlier in August, some analysts offered mixed views on the issue with some FX traders saying the action is going to be counterproductive, noting that the central bank may be underestimating the size of demand outside the official market and that the policy change will do little to address the sharp disparity in the official and parallel market exchange rates. However, others say that the move is correcting a long-standing anomaly. BDCs are licensed to meet demand for personal and business travel and not for big-ticket items that should translate to demand of over $100 million a week, said one analyst who did not want to be named for this story. But Uche Uwaleke, a professor of economics and capital market at the Nasarawa State University, opined that the decision by the CBN to stop forex sales to BDCs has merits and demerits as it is a step in the direction of unification of exchange rates and bringing transparency to the currency market; as it is in the best interests of Nigerians. “The move is likely to check round tripping of forex and reduce supply of forex in the parallel market. Further, speculative demand for forex is also likely to reduce. I am aware that BDCs have been accused of being vehicles for bribery and corruption. This will likely be reduced. It goes without saying that a more transparent forex market will improve confidence in the economy and could lead to increased foreign investments”. As for the e-Naira, things seem to be shaping up. As of November 29, 2021, at least 114,900 consumers and merchants have activated the eNaira wallets since it was introduced in October 2021. A breakdown showed that the consumer wallets constitute about 112,870 of the activated wallets, while the merchant wallets account for just a little over 2,000 wallets. The eNaira, which is Africa’s first Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in October, is the electronic version of the Naira, the country’s currency. The launch of the digital Naira, which was aimed to serve about 200 million people in Nigeria, attracted national and international interests as observers wanted to know how well the electronic currency would perform and what problems it would solve in banking and finance space on the continent. About 24 hours after it was introduced, the app was removed from the Google Play Store because of some glitches but was restored some hours after the issues were resolved. It was observed that as at November 29, 2021, the app recorded 589,000 downloads on both the Android and iOS app stores, with the former accounting for 461,000 downloads and iOS accounting for 128,000 downloads. Analysis showed that Ecobank and GTBank are currently leading in customers’ adoption of the eNaira, with over 2,000 merchant wallets active, about 20 per cent are domiciled with Ecobank, while GTBank has the majority of the consumer wallets activated by users amongst the top 10 financial institutions in the country. According to the report, Ecobank is leading in merchant adoption, followed by Access Bank, Zenith Bank, Union Bank, First Bank, UBA, Polaris Bank, Keystone Bank, GTBank, and Wema Bank. On the other hand, GTBank is leading with the majority of the consumer wallets activated by users from the top 10 financial institutions in the country. As far as consumer wallets go, GTBank has more than 30 per cent of the total activated consumer wallets held by all banks in Nigeria. Access Bank , First Bank, UBA, Polaris Bank, and Ecobank are the top seven banks with the highest number of activated consumer wallets.