KANO – Dr Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, Kano State Deputy Governor, on Tuesdays assured irrigation farmers that work on the Tiga Dam would be ready by June, this year. Gawuna who spoke against the backdrop of the outcry by irrigation farmers in Kano State over the closure of the Tiga Dam, explained that the dam was shut down to enable the supervising authorities to carry out repairs on the channels. The Deputy Governor who doubles as the State’s Commissioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources stated that the refurbished channels would boost irrigation farming activities in the areas. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… He said, “We have to shut down Tiga dam to enable repairs to be carried out. Although, the shutdown was not done by the Kano State government but Hadeja Jamare River Basin Development Authority. “For all these years, we have been delaying the execution of the contract of renovation, restructuring and extension of the irrigation facility by a company called “Transforming Irrigation Management in Nigeria, TRIMMING”. We have to allow them to shut down the dam. Speaking further, “But now, they are almost done. By mid this year, we are sure that Trimming will complete its work and it will be fully utilized. The government will come up with lots of activities to engage the farmers. “Gawuna disclosed that the state government reconstructed a bridge within the plain to fast track their job. He said, “When you go to Konar Gafan, the area that they have finished, thousand of people are now benefitting from the project they have done in Bunkure”. POLL The Deputy Governor revealed that the state government has reclaimed 150 hectares of land which amounts to N378 million annually lost to soil erosion under the Watari Irrigation project. “There is the Watari Irrigation project that has been completed. It has 962 hectares out of which before 40% or 384 were unutilized because of the dilapidation of the dam and infrastructure there. But because of this project, the APPEALS project is fully utilized. “There is also the renovation whereby the 150 hectares previously lost to soil erosion has been reclaimed. The estimated loss on the 150 hectares annually is up to 378 million. “Currently, the Watari expansion stood at 1,000 hectares and approximately, 4,000 farmers are to benefit directly. With the expansion, we have increased the land use of the Watari Irrigation site. Though it has been in use we will formally Commission the project soon because it is very important to project,” Gawuna however stated.