KAZEEM AWOJOODU The ancient city of Ibadan, the Oyo state capital stood still on Sunday January 2 following the passage of the late Oba Saliu Adetunji Aje Oguguniso I, the Olubadan of Ibadanland at the age of 93. The late monarch was born on August 26, 1928 to the family of Raji Olayiwola and Suwebat Amope Adetunji in the Alusekere compound, Popoyemoja, Ibadan, and was the eldest of his father’s 17 children. Saraki Not Your Problem, Deliver Your Promises To Kwara People,… 2023: Northerners Will Never Betray Tinubu – DOJ He became the Olubadan of Ibadanland at 87 years of age after the demise of the late former Olubadan, Oba Samuel Odulana. He ascended the throne through what most people refered to as divine act of God, as the Olubadan succession system, which recognises the civil and the military lines as royal lines, and the hierarchy within the Olubadan-in-Council. Adetunji’s right to the throne would have materialised only after the reign of the former Balogun Olubadan, High Chief Sulaiman Omiyale, and the Otun Olubadan, High Chief Omowale Kuye, if they had all lived long enough to mount the throne. The highest ranking high chief in the military (Balogun) line, Omiyale, was next to the late Olubadan while Kuye (from the civil line) followed in the order, but on November 7, 2015, Omiyale died at the age of 91, paving the way for Adetunji, who was next to Omiyale, to ascend the position of the Balogun. Oba Saliu became 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland on Friday, March 4, 2016 and was presented the staff of office by the then governor of Oyo state, Late Senator Abiola Ajimobi at the popular Mapo Hall. The coronation ceremony was witnessed by dignitaries across Nigerians and abroad. His mother came from the Balogun family of Apomu while his father was a renowned Ibadan indigene. Like many influential figures in those days, Adetunji’s father had more than one wife. Of the four children that his mother had, he (Adetunji) and his brother, Ambali (76), are the surviving ones. Late Oba Adetunji had a humble beginning, starting as traditional attire (aso ofi) weaver, a tailor and later a music promoter. He was a leader in music industry and has promoted the likes of late Isola Abioro, Popular fuji musician, Wasiu Ayinde, Alhaji Tatalo Alamu, Dauda Epo Akara, Wasiu Ayinde and Malaika, Salami Balogun, Amuda Agboluaje, Tatalo Alamu, Raimi Atolagbe, Iyanda Sawaba and Asanat Omo Aje to stardom. His Omo Aje Records was later renamed Babalaje Records. POLL Oba Adetunji was a complete gentleman but a very disciplined and a no-nonsense person. This can be affirmed when he had a rift with the then state Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi over the botched traditional and Chieftaincy review which nearly destroyed the age long peaceful rules of Ibadan Chieftaincy and traditional rites. The then Governor through the kingship review elevated nine High Chiefs of Olubadan in council and some Baales, to beaded kings and coronet crown wearing kings, he also presented them with staffs of office, a move which the late Olubadan Adetunji stood firmly against. Oba Adetunji and former Governor of the state, Senator Rasheed Ladoja, kicked against it and challenged the decision in court. On August 27, 2017, Late Abiola Ajimobi made history by installing 21 new kings in Ibadan, his action was challenged in court by the duo of Senator Rasidi Ladoja and Late Olubadan Adetunji and they succeeded in court as the court nullified the process of elevation of high chiefs and Baales to the status of Oba. Oba Adetunji was loved by his subjects, and monarchs in the South West for his style of leadership and he will sorely be missed as 41st Olubadan of Ibadaland, he was survived by a wife, Olori Rashidat Adetunji and children, he has been buried according to Islamic rites in his Popoyemaja Palace. Anyone Expecting Anything Positive From Buhari This Year Is… Ugwuanyi Mourns Anthony Obi The late monarch was not shy to speak out on issues relating to the state of the nation. During the #EndSARS protest that rocked the nation in October 2020, he advised President Buhari to make a nationwide broadcast so as to reduce the tension in the country. Describing the two-week impasse as “very tough” and “almost unbearable”, Olubadan said the advice became expedient in a situation like this adding that the president should urgently address the demands of the protesters. According to him, until the needs of the aggrieved youths are met, there may be no concrete solution to the crisis. He said, “As the father of the nation with avowed commitment to protect lives and property, including recovering economy, it has become imperative for the President to speak to Nigerians especially, the protesting youths”. President Muhammadu Buhari in his condolence message to the government and people of Oyo State, the Royal family as well as the Olubadanin- Council, described the late Olubadan as a visionary and compassionate leader. The President, in a release by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, affirmed that the late Kabiyesi used the spheres of his influence as a respected traditional ruler and a lover of the creative industry to advance the progress of his people, encouraging and motivating them to give their best in their vocation and to the nation. While his demise understandably left a huge void to fill, the President urged the people of Ibadan and Nigerians from different walks of life to honour the eternal memory of the deceased by imbibing the virtues he cherished so much: generosity, peace, tolerance and devotion to unity. As Oba Adetunji was laid to rest, a mammoth crowd later converged at the compound of Senator Lekan Mashood Balogun the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland to celebrate with him as the next Olubadan of Ibadanland. In line with the hierarchy of ascension to the throne in Ibadanland, the Otun Olubadan is the next in line to mount the throne. There are two lines of ascension to the throne of Olubadan and they are the Balogun lines and the Otun lines, these are the lines that are qualify and direct beneficiaries to the throne of Olubadan, with the most senior on each line ascending the throne on rotational basis. The late Olubadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji Aje Oguguniso 1 emerged from the Balogun line. Senator Lekan Balogun, who is from the Otun line, is the most senior and the one to succeed Oba Adetunji. He was promoted from Mogaji to Ajia Olubadan few decades ago, most of the well wishers at Alli-Iwo Compound were sighted singing and rejoicing that eventually the Olubadan stool cone back to their compound after several decades. Balogun, who holds a Doctorate Degree in Public Administration; Public and Social Administration and Economics from Columbus International University, Brunel University, and Manchester University, in the United Kingdom, is from Ali-Iwo compound in Ibadan North East Local Government Area of Oyo State. As a businessman, he currently sits on the board of several companies with interests in oil and gas, distributive trade, management consulting, mechanized farming, and export of non-oil items, as well as travels and tours. The former senator was an Administrator/Head, Industrial Relations, Recruitment and Scholarships, Planning and Development units at Shell Petroleum Development Company. Balogun was also a Research Fellow with the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, a director with Triumph Newspaper, Kano; Editor of the monthly magazine-“The Nigerian Pathfinder” as well as a Management Consultant for multinational organisations such as Leyland, Exiat Battery, and Nigerian Breweries. He represented Oyo Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly between 1999 and 2003, and served as the Chairman, Senate Committee on National Planning. He was a member of Senate committees on Appropriations, Security and Intelligence, Police Affairs, and Defence (Army), among others. He was a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Social Democratic Party in the 1992/1993 presidential election, and a governorship candidate for the PDP in Oyo State as well as a research fellow at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Kaduna State. Senator Lekan Balogun is an elder brother to Dr. Muhammed Kola Balogun the Current Senator representing Oyo South Senatorial District in the National Assembly. It was also gathered that one of the former Olubadan of Ibadaland was from same compound Alli-Iwo, well-wishers were sighted singing and rejoicing that finally Olubadan stool returned to Alli-Iwo compound after several decades.Traditional drummers, family members, friends and relatives of Chief Mashood Olalekan Balogun were sighted at his residents in Alarere Area along Ife-expressway. Balogun is next person to ascend to throne of Olubadan of Ibadanland in accordance with the hierarchy and tradition of Chieftaincy title tradition of Ibadaland.