The Federal Government has inaugurated a new National Council on Productivity, to address the issues of low productivity in the country. Dr Chris Ngige, Minister for Labour and Employment, while inaugurating the Council in Abuja, stated that the Federal Government attached great priority to enhancing national productivity, and upgrading the nation’s global competitiveness and ranking. Ngige, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Labour and Employment, Dr Yerima Peter Tarfa, noted that the Council was being inaugurated for the effective implementation of the National Policy on Productivity. Interswitch Supports NITDA’s National Privacy Week, Promotes… BEDC Commends Illah Community Over Vandals’ Arrest He stated that the major work of the Policy was to serve as a roadmap for sustainable productivity growth and development in Nigeria. Ngige enjoined all relevant stakeholders to collaborate for an effective implementation of the Policy. The Minister noted that the low level of productivity constituted one of the major obstacles to the nation’s development, given that the nation was faced with the economic impacts of COVID-19, “youth unemployment and restiveness, poverty, insecurity, high inflation rate, financial crisis, amongst others.” He noted that increased productivity could be achieved through change of attitude of individuals to work, and provision of efficient services. The Minister charged the Council members with these functions: “To advise the Federal Government on all matters relating to productivity in the country, and to assist Government in formulating policies that will enhance productivity in the economy. POLL “To review and advise Government on productivity trends and wages in the economy, and to review policies, laws and regulations on productivity matters in the country. “ He enjoined the members of the Council to ensure that the Terms of Reference were carried out and implemented to the letter. The National Council on Productivity has as Chairman, Permanent Secretary, Labour and Employment, and Director, Productivity Measurement and Labour Standards department of the Ministry, as Secretary. Other members of the Council were drawn from National Productivity Centre (NPC), Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment; Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning; Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC), Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), National Planning Commission, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), among others. Permanent Secretary, Labour and Employment, Dr Yerima Peter Tarfa, in his address of welcome, stated that the Council meeting, following the inauguration, would deliberate on the state of productivity in Nigeria, and how it could be enhanced. Air Peace Deploys E195-E2, B737 Aircraft On Anambra Route Why CBN Disbursed Over N47.83bn To Power Sector Under Its Mass… He noted that the structure of the Council went beyond tripartite to Tripartite Plus, in recognition that Productivity issues cut across various sectors of the economy. The International Labour Organization (ILO) Country Director, Vanessa Phala, represented by Inviolata Chinyangarara, pledged the support of the Organization to Nigeria’s effort towards enhancing productivity.