It’s been a rather agonizing year for Nigerians – full of tragedies and differed dreams. 2021 began with the state of lawlessness that followed the #EndSARS protests which threw Nigeria’s hectoring police into a long spell of shock and paved the way for criminals of all hues to assume control of Lagos and elsewhere in the country. We gradually came out of that – or, did we? Difficult to say now. At any rate, Nigeria dawdled along its trajectory of negations overlaid with stories of terror, poverty, and despair. With COVID-19 intimidating the world in its never-ending mutations, there were several good excuses for those who control the levers of power in the country to shut their brains up and follow their whims instead. As President Muhammadu Buhari himself has admitted in his New Year message to Nigerians, kidnapping was the nation’s most conspicuous achievement and it took Nigeria several notches high on the insecurity scale. Buhari: 2022 Will Be Another Wasted Year To Be At Your Best In 2022 In one of the several sore cases of the beginning of the year, that is January 2021, seven boys and girls, aged 10–13, as well as an adult male, were abducted from an orphanage in Abuja, thus establishing the gloomy cadence that would define the year. However, in January 26, after an eternity of hedging amid nationwide frustration over the fight against terror, President Buhari shook up the top military command and named Leo Irabor Chief of Defence, Ibrahim Attahiru Army Chief, A. Z. Gambo, Naval Chief, and I. O. Amao Air Chief. Then Nigeria entered into a period of diplomatic engagement in February when it championed the candidacy of former Finance Minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, for the headship of the World Trade Organisation when South Korean Trade Minister dropped out of the race. Her victory was one of the very few positive achievements of that year, in addition to the fact that history was made – Okonjo-Iweala became the first woman and the first African to hold the position. But the shadow of terror lurked unappeasably and, on February 7, fourteen people were killed in Kutemeshi and five in Kujeni, two Kaduna communities, during raids by armed bandits who looted shops and warehouses as well as burnt houses and a church. This was closely followed by the February 17 kidnap of 41 people – comprising students, teachers, and family members and the killing of a student by bandits in Kagara, Niger State. Similarly, seven were killed when a military plane crashed in Abuja on February 21 while Maiduguri witnessed rocket attacks two days later. Still on the crimson path, we awoke to reports on February 24 that gunmen had killed 36 people and burnt down houses during attacks in Kaduna and Katsina States while two days later, at least 317 schoolgirls were abducted in Zamfara. POLL The pain of that sad incident was nevertheless mitigated by the refreshing news of the release of 42 hostages on February 27 after they had been kidnapped from a school in Kagara, Niger State, ten days earlier. As the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic continued, a major achievement was recorded on March 6 when President Buhari received the Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine from the UN COVAX programme even though the 3.92 million vaccines arrived March 2. Nigeria targeted 84 million doses of vaccine for the year and hoped to vaccinate 40% of the population and 30% in 2022. There had been 158,042 confirmed cases of infections and 1,954 deaths. Joy was incessantly ephemeral in 2021, and so on March 11 thirty students were kidnapped from the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Mando, Kaduna. The gunmen were said to have run past the boys dormitory to capture a large number of female students. In the long relay of tragic events, there was a siege to the Correctional Centre in Owerri, Imo State, and liberation of the inmates on April 5 while three days later eleven military men were killed in an attack in Benue State. This was followed two weeks later by another kidnap of students, this time at Greenfield University, Kaduna, as well as abductions in Tegina on May 30. At the beginning of June, Twitter removed one of President Buhari’s tweets and temporarily suspended his account, thus beginning a long-drawn out skirmish with the Nigerian government that is yet to be fully resolved. A Christmas Without Christmas Never Out Of Mind Maryam Babangida (1948-2009) Amidst reported massacre in Kebbi, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, announced that Twitter’s operations in Nigeria would be “suspended” indefinitely, arguing that the company was engaged in activities that “are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”, and on June 5, Twitter was blocked by all internet service providers in the country. Again, on June 10, bandits killed 53 people in Zamfara State just as eighteen people were killed by suspected Islamic militants in Dabna, Hong, Adamawa State, on July 7, with the gunmen reportedly attacking the nearby villages of Kwapre and Garka as well. A military plane was also shot down by bandits, but the pilot escaped. Also worthy of note was the Monday, November 1, tragedy in Ikoyi, Lagos, where several people were trapped under the rubble of a 21-storey building that collapsed, and took with it several lives and dreams. Then the year ended on a controversial note with the death of Sylvester Oromoni, whose case drew public attention to the age-long calamity of bullying in schools. But one cannot end a retrospection on 2021 without mentioning the loss of notable Nigerians, including Oye Ibidapo-Obe (January 3), academic administrator and former Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos; Ndubuisi Kanu (13 January), retired Rear Admiral and former Military Governor of Imo State (1976–1977) and Lagos State (1977–1978); Yisa Sofoluwe (February 9), former footballer and member of the national team; Lateef Jakande (February 11), journalist and former governor of Lagos State (1979–1983) and Minister of Works (1993–1998); Sadiq Daba (March 3), actor and broadcaster (Nigerian Television Authority); Yinka Odumakin (April 10), human rights activist and spokesman of Afenifere; Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru (May 21), Chief of Army Staff who died in a plane crash alongside other generals and aides. Others were T. B. Joshua (June 5), televangelist and founder of Synagogue Church of All Nations; Sound Sultan (July 11), musician and actor; Rachel Oniga (July 30), actress; Victoria Aguiyi-Ironsi (August 23) former First Lady; Sir Victor Uwaifo (August 28), musician and academic, and Baba Suwe (November 22), actor. Then the year ended as miserably and grimly as it began. 45 killed in the largely Tiv communities of Obi, Awe and Lafia Local Government Areas of Nasarawa State, December 18, 2021, A week later, bandits attacked 15 villages, kidnapped over 30 women in the Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara. One of the locals told the media: “The bandits kidnapped 10 women in Kura, at Bayauri they kidnapped 9. “They also entered a village called Gana and kidnapped 7 before proceeding to Duma and kidnapped another 7. These happened before Sunday morning.” According to the report, many villages have been deserted, as the villagers have now embarked on an exodus to the state capital, Gusau. The long shadow of 2021 lurks in our hearts like a bad dream and, unfortunately, we have nothing to look forward to that can erase this harrowing feeling that as long as this government drags on, the situation can only get worse. Recall that ISWAP launched multiple rocket attacks in Maiduguri, the state capital, hours before the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Borno State recently. In that attack, many houses were destroyed by the explosives that landed in different areas, including Ngomari, Bulumkutu, Ajilari, and Ayafe communities. While fielding questions at the end of an emergency Security Council meeting presided over by Buhari at the presidential villa following that shocking development, Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, said the ability of the terrorists to strike with rockets was worrisome. Indeed, it should. You may then ask, is the fear of the worse justified? Yes, it is. Food crisis will worsen because insecurity may grow worse in reality even when the government claims it’s winning the war. And as long as the agrarian North is still held hostage by terrorists and other marauders that are growing more fiendish and can now fire rockets, there is no evidence that change is near. But to be pessimistic is to submit to the crippling sensation of an end. Perhaps, for this reason, we can try to look ahead of us with smiles even if what we see should make us cry. Let our faith help us yet again to stay afloat even if the welter of confusion emanating from the top threatens to pull us down permanently. Together, then, let’s say: “So long, 2021; may we never see your incarnations, never.” Luckily, we are heading for another momentous political period when the ordinary folks may be remembered again, and as we journey through the mesh of this familiar course, let’s look into us for answers that we can find ourselves and not those thrust into our mouths. Goodluck, fellow countrymen, and welcome to 2022.