MAKURDI – Officials of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state are at daggers drawn over funds allocated for the media coverage of the birthday of the Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume. The money was allocated by Senator Akume to the Publicity Committee for the transportation and feeding of newsmen that were taken to Gboko, Gboko Local Government Area (LGA) from Makurdi, the state capital to cover the event, which took place at his residence. Daily Independent gathered that the newsmen were left hungry throughout the duration of the programme that lasted from 7 am to about 5:40 pm. We’ll No Longer Put Money Into Ajaokuta – FG 2019 Election: Segun Akanni, Oyo REC,  Advocate Accurate Media… The problem started when the newsmen were about to leave the residence of Senator Akume in Gboko for Makurdi at the end of the programme and the media handlers to the Minister could not provide the transportation and feeding allowance that was provided for the pressmen. Despite the information that resources were made available for that purpose ahead of the event, the media handlers who were seen running from pillar to post claimed that Senator Akume did not make available the resources. The concerned media houses who did want their names in print alleged that the same scenario played out when they were asked to accompany the Minister on another trip, about a week before his birthday. According to one of the affected journalists, members of the publicity committee had dismissed them with a promise to offset their allowances after consultations with the celebrant. We later gathered that trouble broke out in the cause of sharing the spoils among the committee members, when some of them were shortchanged, leading to a disagreement on who takes what. POLL The disagreement resulted in one of the committee members (names withheld) who leaked to the media that they were at daggers drawn over the ‘sharing formula’, as to who gets what. Up to the time of compiling this report on Monday, the APC officials were at loggerhead and yet to make headway on the issue.