LAGOS – Concerned Niger Dleta Youth Forum (CNYF) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the The Executive Secretary Nigeria content Development and Monitoring Board NCDMB Simbi Kesiye Wabote over alleged Perjury, Corruption. The group demanded that the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Kesiye Wabote, step aside for a thorough investigation of allegations of corruption against him within 14 days. The youths in a statement made available to newsmen on Friday and signed by the National Leader Comrade John Ebitari and the Secretary Comrade Oweikeme Preye noted that “it is in the interest of justice and in line with the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s avowed stance on war against corruption.” they noted that “perjury is of serious concern” and should be taken seriously. IYC Warns Blackmailers To Leave Wabote, NCDMB Boss, Alone INC Spokesman Congratulates Gogo-Ogan, Marshal-Harry, Capt… They further stated, Mr. Wabote is bringing shame and disgrace to the Niger Delta region. As Niger Delta youths we haven’t seen any tangible youth engagement programmes and activities that NCDMB or Simbi Wabote has brought to the region. As a public public office holder we expected Simbi Wabote to be transparent in his affairs. They also commended Timi Frank for always standing on the truth as a patriotic son of the oil. As a group we have never met or had any contact with Jackson Ude or Timi Frank but we have been following the alleged corruption cases against Mr. Simbi Wabote both here in Nigeria and US at this point we decided to make our point clear by calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sack Mr. Simbi Wabote and face his ongoing corruption cases. Comrade John Ebitari advise youths from the region not to be use by selfish people like Simbi Wabote that are always gain favour by sabotage the region and the economy of the Nation and also remember, Mr. Wabote Simbi will only use you when it is time for war then forget you and favour his corrupt cronies when it is time for benefits. The further call on the leadership of IYC especially the president Igbifa to Stay off from the activities of NCDMB. As ijaw youths we are totally disappointed with the current IYC leadership which had been bought over by Akpabio and cronies in NDDC. The Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC has been picketed by few individuals in the Niger Delta region and beyond with interim administration’s. Taking over the leadership of IYC as Ijaw youths we thought as for once the ijaw Nation has gotten it right but reverse is the case, it has never been bad this way since the inception of IYC, Igbifa is a fraud, he deceived the Ijaw Nation by kidnapping himself in order to avoid the protest organised by Ijaw Youths after collected millions of dollars from Akpabio and his cronies. Let Igbifa stay off from NCDMB. POLL The statement added, “learning of the ongoing case in the United States of America in a libel case instituted by lawyers acting on the authority of the Executive Secretary in which the Defendant’s counsel is accusing Mr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote of perjury and lying on oath in his case against Jackson Ude, a journalist, in a United States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. “Attorney to Ude from Amadi Law Office at 204 Blossom Street Extension, Suite A. Lynn MA 01901, Barr. Beneth O. Amadi, had in a letter dated January 15, 2022 and addressed to the Honorable Joseph F. Leeson, Jr., United States District Judge, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, 504 West Hamilton Street, Suite 3401, alleged that Wabote perjured (lied on oath) in his response to interrogatories. “The court had on Tuesday, December 21, 2021 ordered Wabote, to provide “full and complete responses to defendant’s interrogatories”, as the court was not satisfied with earlier responses provided by Wabote and his counsel. “But in his reaction to the responses by Wabote to the interrogatories, counsel for Defendant (Ude) wrote to the court demanding sanction for “Plaintiff (Wabote) and his Attorneys for committing fraud on the court, for perjury and for acting in subornation of perjury in this case”, the statement recalled. said they “found it shocking that if knowingly, and with clear intention, as Mr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote was accused, is working to derail the course of justice and to torpedo Defendant’s access to justice in a case in far away United States, he will do worse in Nigeria. Buhari’s Aide Backs Wike On War Against Bunkering In Rivers 2023: DPV Reaffirms Commitment To Okowa”s Leadership “To ensure that he does not continue to obstruct the course of justice both in Nigeria and the United States, we call for his immediate suspension or he should voluntarily step aside for proper investigation into corruption allegations against him and to stop further siphoning of the nation’s scarce resources for legal fees abroad. “We therefore call on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) and the National Assembly to immediately institute open probe of the core allegations against him as contained in a petition directed to the Code of Conduct Bureau. “If he fails to resign within 14 days, we shall be left with no choice but to take legal actions against him, including mobilising the civil society community to occupy the National Assembly and relevant anti-corruption institutions until the the needful done”, the statement read.