Chief Ayo Adebanjo, National Leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, speaks on his expectations in year 2022 under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He also shares his thoughts on Electoral Act Amendment bill, restructuring and insecurity and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: The Buhari administration has asked Nigerians to expect a new price regime of petroleum products in 2022. What is your reaction to this? I told you back in 2015, when Nigerians voted for change, that the man had no clue; he was just beating about the bush. You are wasting your time if you are waiting to get anything positive from Buhari’s government. He doesn’t understand the problems of Nigeria, not to talk of solutions to them. You first have to understand a problem before you decide what you are going to do to solve it. He is clueless and he doesn’t listen to advice. You see, his reason for coming to office was to Islamise Nigeria and to pay back those who removed him from office. He wants to take revenge on all those who have done him evil. He is not fair to the country. All the zigzag programmes of development you see him doing are about those who invited him to government. He is just trying to appear to be democratic. He is not. So, I don’t waste my time. What promise has he made that he has fulfilled? So, people are just wasting their time. I have told you to pray to God to send him away from there once his tenure finishes. Akume’s Birthday: APC Officials At Daggers Drawn Over… Saraki Not Your Problem, Deliver Your Promises To Kwara People,… Nigerians are going through a hard time due to increase in the prices of commodities. Do you think Nigerians would be able to cope if the situation persists? There is no solution to Nigeria’s problems until Buhari goes away and the country is restructured. That is all I know. Everything depends on the government of the day. Everything depends on the leadership. This country should be restructured before talking of any election because the final thing lies with the president. Now they have passed the Electoral Bill and instead of signing that bill into law, he sits on it, and the constitution is still there that gives him the dictatorial power. He is a tyrant. How do you see the amendment to the Electoral Bill allowing direct primaries to be conducted by political parties to pick their candidates? What are the inherent opportunities? When you are asking for the opportunities, that is the pretence. We should go for direct primaries. Very okay, and yes, it is expensive. That is all. But let the people speak; don’t adopt the system that is prone to corruption, a system whereby so-called godfathers lodge voters in hotels and keep them there until they come and vote at a price. All those would go under direct primaries. The only thing they would be saying against direct primaries is that it is expensive. Expensive to whom, the government or the party? POLL They say to those who are going to conduct the exercise. Whatever price the primary is going to cost, it is worth it for democracy. What is your advice for President Buhari regarding the bill? He should sign it into law but if he doesn’t sign it, he wouldn’t surprise me. A tyrant does not aid democracy’s growth. Buhari can’t offer what he hasn’t got. He is a dictator by birth, by training and by everything. Every succeeding Nigerian leader appears to be even worse than the predecessor. Jonathan was seen as evil then and today Buhari is seen as a worse evil. Nigerians will soon have the opportunity to elect a new leader. What guarantees do the people have with that? It is a system that is corrupt and illusive that produces people like Buhari. When you change the constitution to a democratic one, where there is an atmosphere of freedom, it wouldn’t produce a dictator like Buhari. What assurances are there that the country is going to have such a constitution before the next election? Sanwo-Olu, Police Saga: Only Restructure Can Save Nigeria… BREAKING: Lagos Loses First Female Deputy Speaker, Adetoun… We are going to fight for it. I don’t expect Buhari to yield to a change of constitution easily, because that is his style. So, people who expect him to change should know that you can’t get freedom on a platter of gold. Freedom is fought for. That is what most people that want it have to understand. We are going to mount pressure on him and the government must know that this should be a democratic one. If the people are determined, civil disobedience will be a forum to use to say, ‘no, you can’t go anywhere’, and it is because people are not prepared to make the sacrifice. They would say if you don’t want to contest election, some other people would be ready for it, who would go there? Who would dare it if that is the decision of the people? From what you are saying, are there going to be elections in 2023? No, I am not supporting any election until we change the constitution. I am not saying people should boycott elections; I am saying, change the constitution before election if you don’t mean any evil. Any lover of the country, who loves democracy, who loves good governance should produce the people’s constitution, not run a constitution that was imposed on us by the military. I have said this many times but they still want to continue with it. How are you planning to achieve this objective? I am mobilising as I am talking, convincing people to put pressure on President Buhari to change the constitution. If not, they should not take part in any election until the constitution is changed. If people say they are not going to take part in election, how can they vote? But some people would say if others are not participating in election, they would do so, let us see how there can be justice? The people deserve the government they get. My stand is clear. I told them in 2015, I told them in 2019, and what is the result? What have I said against Buhari in 2015 that is not correct? What did I say against him in 2019 that is not correct? People are just wasting their time. The man is clueless. He is a tyrant, a tribal jingoist, a religious fanatic. In view of this, he has done nothing. Now people are clamouring for self-government, self-determination, and you say they are terrorists. Those who are killing, kidnapping, raping, you are negotiating with them, paying ransom. What type of person is that? Would you say the government is succeeding in addressing the security situation in the country? Has kidnapping or raping or bombing stopped? The governor of Niger State is shouting that some local government areas have been taken over. We have not read any report that he has reclaimed those areas. This government, you should mind their claims that they are ensuring security in the country. That is why people say this government is a liar. People died in Lekki but they said nobody died and when evidence was produced, they said they didn’t accept. What kind of government is that? Something that took place and the whole world watched on internet, the government denied it. And that government is still talking. I have challenged the government openly to say that you can do negotiation with bandits and rogues. I am shouting for restructuring but you have not called me to say let’s dialogue and agree. What has (Nnamdi) Kanu done that is evil? He said they were marginalising him and just treating his tribe as a second-rate race. He said he was leaving and you did not call him to ask him why he was leaving. You just called him a terrorist. Those who are raping, killing, you did not call those ones terrorists. You went to Makurdi and the governor said, ‘Mr President, we know those who are killing my people’. What did he say? He said go and make peace with your neighbours. He was negotiating with bandits, rapists; he is accommodating Gumi who is a negotiator between the bandits and the government. Today, is there any state that bandits have not attacked? And the Federal Government would say they are improving on security. They are killing top military officers in Borno. This is something that is clear to everyone. Regarding the issue of Kanu and Sunday Igboho that you talked about, the presidency, through the Attorney General, said they were going to look for political solution in handling their matter. What has Afenifere said in response? We have made a statement. We are not going to beg President Buhari. We would not do like the Igbo did, begging him to surrender to tyranny. I wouldn’t surrender to tyranny, to oppression, to dictatorship. What has he (Igboho) done? This is a man who took the Federal Government to court for invading his house and the court said he had not done anything, and the court ordered that he be released and that they should compensate him. You read this in the newspaper, and then what is the need for political solution? Is that a democratic government who does not obey court orders? There are several court orders. It chooses which ones to obey and I say that is not a legitimate government; that it is not a democratic government in a constitutional government. Some people went to Igboho’s house in the middle of the night, invaded the house and committed murder there. God save Nigeria.