Nigerians are still patronising unlicensed pharmacies amid recent findings that drug-related deaths are now ranking third place after cancer and heart disease globally. Some allege that services in pharmacies are costlier and more time-consuming. If the latest finding is anything to go by in advanced societies where drugs are strictly utilised under the supervision of pharmacists, how much worse will the case be in a country like Nigeria with chaotic drug distribution? What most Nigerian clients or patients do not know is that it is not just about drugs being given out, but also about the associated dispensed drug information that accompanies such medications. Of Ambition And National Interest Effervescent Bolaji Akinyemi At 80: They Don’t Come This Good… Every drug has a set of specific and accompanying Drug Information that rightly guides its proper usage; otherwise, such use could turn out to be hazardous. Some of the deleterious effects may not manifest immediately but years later. Unfortunately, many Nigerians are misusing or abusing drugs, others are irresponsibly self-medicating with drugs as well as being non-adherent to their medications’ guidelines for usage. Suffice it to say that the incidence and prevalence of drug-related complications or deaths are expected to be unimaginably high and unreported in Nigeria. One keeps wondering at the negative impacts and drug-related complications that could have been created and caused by the unchecked activities of quacks and traders who have infiltrated and hijacked the Pharmacy Practice in Nigeria. Effective drug education, medication review, and counseling are therefore the only ways out of this menace. Such could only be accurately provided by Pharmacists who are the healthcare Professionals globally known and trained to excel on the knowledge and actions of all types of drugs. POLL Since Pharmacists are the highest trained healthcare Professionals on drug knowledge and matters, any other person who assumes the duty of a pharmacist and is involved in drug refilling, dispensing, or handling as an occupation with respect to Patients or clients care, is best described as an ‘Impersonator’ or a ‘Usurper.’ Such a person’s action could pose a great danger to the health of the citizenry and must be discouraged. Even when other trained healthcare professionals are involved in medications handling, it should be done under the direct supervision of Pharmacists. That is the position of science and the proper or healthy practice too. Many of our people are much more concerned in some cases about the cheap cost of their medications and less time spent in non-pharmacies or other non-properly registered drug outlets but are oblivious of the fact that majority of such drugs obtained in these non-pharmacies could be either substandard, fake or subject to misuse due to absence of professional guidance. This partly explains why many Nigerians suffer from treatment failure, drug resistance, adverse drug reactions, drug-induced diseases, and even untimely death. Ganduje, The Most Beautiful Bride For VP Magodo And Our Wacky Federalism Many people in society think that every person who handles drugs in a drug outlet is qualified to do so and that one does not need to spend some time with the pharmacist. Some don’t even know who is a Pharmacist and think he is just anyone in a drug store. Many are not even aware or do not care to know that any Pharmacist they see in Nigeria must have graduated from the University and licensed, after spending about six or seven years (depending on whether it is a doctor of pharmacy or Bachelor of Pharmacy Programme) plus an additional one-year NYSC programme. Some Pharmacists also have advanced degrees in clinical pharmacy or patient-oriented pharmacy practice. Of importance too, is the fact that many of the fake drug outlets do not have signposts clearly indicating their names. That is dangerous as it makes them unidentifiable. An establishment dealing in drug matters should have proper signage to show if it is a pharmacy, patent medicine shop, or supermarket. Before drugs can be assured to be safely and appropriately used, they will be accompanied by some professional information and education from the pharmacists who are the medications experts. It is the pharmacist that designs and manufactures all orthodox medicines and really understands the workings of the drugs. For instance, in the developed world, their citizenry is familiar and deeply understands the sign;” Pharmacist on Duty’ or ‘Pharmacist not on Duty.” It is very unfortunate in Nigeria, that non-pharmacists and quacks have invaded pharmacy practice, a practice that is supposed and meant to safeguard the health of people. As you start the chain of care in your health-seeking behaviour by visiting your prescribers, you should complete the same cycle by passing through your pharmacist and demanding the provision of Effective Medication Education and Counseling. Your pharmacist is the ultimate drug expert who is most equipped with the mandates, skills, and training to provide you with authentic and effective medication education and counseling, and any other drug-related services. Information and Knowledge are Power, do not be deceived!