TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI The race for the 2023 presidential election assumed an interesting dimension on Wednesday as former Senate President Bukola Saraki joined the growing ranks of those jostling to replace President Muhammadu Buhari on May 29, 2023. The two-time governor will be contesting on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Saraki is the second former Senate President to throw his hat in the ring on the PDP platform. Former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, had earlier declared his ambition, saying Nigerians believe he is the right man to occupy the highest political office in Nigeria come 2023. Iteire Calls For More Checkpoints In Isoko North As Robbers… NYSC Trust Fund Bill: NGO Lauds Buhari, NASS Synergy On Youth… Saraki’s declaration is also coming after those of some chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC), including former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi; Senate Chip Whip and former governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu; and former Imo State, Governor Rochas Okorocha. The former Kwara State Governor said he has a strong record of delivering on his mandate and experience in making tough decisions. Saraki, born on December 19, 1962, is the son of Second Republic Senator, late Dr. Olusola Saraki. He was first elected into the Senate in 2011 and emerged Senate President in 2015. On his official Facebook page, Saraki said: “Earlier, I replied to a follower of mine on Twitter who like thousands of you has been clamouring for a united front to #RescueNigeria. POLL “As we prepare for the journey ahead, I hope we can all join hands to get the ticket of our great party, PDP, and build a nation that works for all of us. Join me to make our communities safer and provide real opportunities for you and your families. I have a strong record of delivering and experience in making tough decisions. “Let’s build a new Nigeria that works for EVERYONE!” In November last year, Saraki had earlier informed Governor Samuel Ortom, elders and members of the State Working Committee of the PDP in Benue state of his intention to contest the presidency in 2023. Accompanied to Makurdi by the former Governor of Kogi State, Idris Wada, former National Chairman of the PDP, Kawu Baraje, Senator Suleiman Adokwe and the Chairman of Council, Saraki for President Campaign, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, Saraki said it is time to kick out the APC as they have no business being in government. He said: “a political party that cannot organize its affairs has no business leading this country. A party that has organized its affairs is ready to lead the country and that is the PDP.” Former military head of state Ibrahim Babangida recently endorsed Saraki’s presidential aspiration saying he is more than prepared for the job. Why Nigerian Women Want Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 Why Nigerian Women Wants Yahaya Bello For President In 2023 IBB who affirmed his support for Saraki during a visit to Babangida’s Minna resident, Niger State said “You are much more than prepared because you have been a governor in a state, a legislator and a Senator”. “You have been holding the Senate for the past three years very well and the Senate has been working very well under you. I’m, therefore, convinced that you have what it takes to be president,” he added Babangida said the Saraki won his supports owing to his focus three important areas – unity, economic development and security – which he said are very dear to him. You spoke of three important things that are very dear to me and those of us who fought to keep this country together, the issues which are unity, economic development and security,” Babangida said. Saraki played a huge role in the success recorded by the PDP in its national convention last year. As the chairman of the PDP National Reconciliation Committee, he toured the length and breadth of Nigeria, uniting aggrieved party members ahead of the convention. He also facilitated the return of some former party members who had left the party in the fold. Chief Olabode George, a former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP while appreciating Saraki for his role then said he ( Saraki) spoke truth to power without mincing words on the way to go for the party to reclaim its place of pride in Nigeria’s political arena. He said “The national reconciliation committee set up by the party headed by Dr. Bukola Saraki is doing a very wonderful job. I’m highly impressed with Saraki’s handling of the responsibility so far. He is calling a spade a spade and telling the truth to power”. In a related development, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Prince Diran Odeyemi, has described the attempt to blackmail the Chairman of PDP, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee (NRSC) led by former Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki as mischievous. He said his response became imperative after his attention was drawn to a statement issued by one Abiodun Adegoke in which he made many ‘libelous, mischievous, and false claims’ over the reconciliation efforts in Osun state chapter of the party. He pointed out that the entire write up was a dubious attempt to mislead the public and blackmail Saraki as well as the new leadership of Ayu into taking premeditated decisions that will favour a group in the Osun State PDP crisis. The party chieftain said as a stakeholder in Osun State, it should be clear to all that this game of blackmail, intimidation, muck-raking, mud-splashing, and peddling of bare-faced lies cannot help the party. Odeyemi noted that as a major stakeholder in the party, he was obliged to respond to the write-up because the writer made several untrue statements concerning the party, some key leaders, and insinuated things that only exist in his imagination as well as that of his sponsors. He added that as a result of the reconciliation efforts in other states and the emergence of the new party leadership, the final report of the NRSC has not been submitted to the new National Working Committee (NWC) led by Ayu. Odeyemi said, therefore, the committee as a body, Saraki as a person, and other members could not be accused of playing any role in whatever decision the party leadership has taken, is contemplating, or may take on the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Osun State. He stated: “From my knowledge, the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee (NRSC) met the Osun State stakeholders on March 15, 2021, in Abuja as it did to most of the other states where the party had a crisis. “From the commencement of the meeting, Dr. Saraki declared his closeness to the Adeleke family, particularly revealing that two of the members of the family (late Isiaka and Ademola) had been his colleagues in the Senate. He however made it clear that the fact will not prevent him from saying the truth and ensuring justice, equity, and fairness determined the outcome of the deliberations. “After his statement, nobody raised any objection to his presiding over the meeting. Many of the stakeholders across the board praised and commended his objectivity and full disclosure.” The party chieftain stressed that the 2022 gubernatorial election in this state is for PDP to win, but added that, “It is also easy for PDP to lose it due to unreasonable actions of its leaders and members like the one under consideration.” Odeyemi added: “None of the various groups can win this election alone. We have all been in the opposition in the last 12 years. With some sensible actions, unity of purpose, a ‘give and take’ but positive attitude, and strategic planning, we can win the elections and go-ahead to provide good governance for our people. “However, if we choose the path of self-destructing like the one represented in the press statement by the so-called Apesin-Abiodun Adegoke, we will all continue to enjoy the benefit of in-fighting under the opposition umbrella.”