The Federal Government has stated that it will be imposing a six per cent tax on turnover on e-commerce businesses provided by non-resident companies in Nigeria who supply individuals in Nigeria, and cannot themselves self-account for Value Added Tax (VAT). Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, said the move one of the high point during the public presentation and breakdown of the 2022 budget held in Abuja, recently. He said the introduction of the 6% tax on digital services offered to Nigerians by non-resident companies, implied that Nigerians who visit Amazon, and other e-commerce platforms not resident in Nigeria would pay VAT on items purchased online. Monetary, Fiscal Authorities Stimulus Programmes Boosted… Zinox Boss, Ekeh, Donates N500m For Job Creation In Imo State “This is expected to drive growth in Nigeria’s non-oil revenue,” she said. According to Ahmed, the tax collection was in line with the provision of the 2021 Finance Act, which empowered the FIRS to access CIT on the turnover of a foreign digital company involved in transmitting, emitting, or receiving signals, sounds, messages, images, or data of any kind including e-commerce, app stores, and online adverts. “Section 30 of the Finance Act designed to amend Section 10, 31 and 14 of VAT is in relations to VAT obligations for non-resident digital companies and the mechanism that will be used is to restrict VAT obligations mainly to digital non-resident companies who supply individuals in Nigeria who can’t themselves self-account for VAT. “So, if you visit Amazon, we are expecting Amazon to add VAT charge to whatever transaction you are paying for. I am using Amazon as an example. “We are going to be working with Amazon to be registered as a tax agent for the FIRS” , she said. POLL Ahmed highlighted the desire of the Federal Government to modernise taxes for its digital economy and to improve compliance, explaining that digital non-resident companies do not need to be registered locally, but would have an arrangement with the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS) to collect and remit taxes in a bid to reduce the compliance burden. The minister also emphasised that the government has surpassed its collection target for its independent revenues, explaining that for the first time, Nigeria had collected independent revenues of N1.104 trillion as of November 2021 as against a target of N973.41 billion. According to the presentation, the bill empowers the FIRS to assess Non-Resident Firms to tax on Fair & Reasonable Turnover Tax Basis on Turnover earned from providing Digital Services to Nigerian customers. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 31, 2021, signed the 2022 budget of N17.126 trillion, alongside the passing into law the Finance Bill, which ensured the immediate kick-off at the start of the New Year. The bill introduced Turnover Tax on Fair & Reasonable Percentage of Profits earned from providing Digital Services to Nigerian customers. New Tax On Carbonated Drinks Will Result To Sudden Decline In… 4th Mainland Bridge: Another Conduit Pipe? The budget also restricts VAT obligations mainly to Digital Non-Resident Companies, who supply individuals who cannot self-account for VAT. Similarly, the bill is expected to reduce compliance burden on other Non-Resident Taxpayers who are not required to register for VAT in Nigeria. The minister also clarified that the FIRS may appoint persons (including Non-Residents) for the purpose of tax collection.