LAGOS  – A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Jude Idimogu, has lauded Globacom for empowering Nigerians through its consumer appreciation promo, Joy Unlimited Extravaganza. “Globacom is adding value to the people and empowering Nigerians through this promo. The life of the car winner here today has changed for good and more lives will be changed by Glo as it continues to present prizes to Nigerians in its promo while those who won fridges and power generators have the opportunity to start small businesses with the appliances,” the lawmaker said at the presentation of a car and 66 home appliances to winners of the promo at Cele-Okota area of Lagos on Thursday. Hon Olasoju Adebayo Chairman Isolo Lagos Council Development Area, also lauded Globacom for putting smiles on the faces of numerous winners who won prizes across Nigeria. APC: Court Strikes Out Suit Challenging Legality Of Buni-led… Osinbajo Pays Condolence Visit To Olubadan Family, Describes… “Presentation of prizes by Globacom is just like what we call poverty alleviation which we do constantly to empower Nigerians. Glo is empowering Nigerians and making them happy. We look forward to Globacom coming to Isolo area too for Social responsibility activities”, he said. Other guests at the event included the Managing Director of Seaman Plaza, Mrs. Gloria Ifezue, Managing Director of Mikelaiye Ventures, Mr. Tunde Binuyo, Managing Director of Golden Rule Telecomms, Mrs. Ifeoma Uyenyere, Glo Ambassador and musician, Teni Makanaki, while Nollywood actors, Odunlade Adekola and Rachael Okonkwo aka Nkoli also graced the occasion. 37-year-old insurance executive, Kafayat Adewale, who won a brand new Kia Rio car described the event as “a unique way to start year 2022”. According to her, “For the past five days, I have not been myself. It’s not that I don’t have a car but if anyone had predicted in December that I will have a brand new car in January, I wouldn’t have believed. Initially, I was skeptical when I got a call from Glo but by the time the second call came in and they all sounded very professional coupled with the fact that I visited the Gloworld near Cele Bus Stop where I did the verification and I saw the car parked there, I became convinced. Today I have received the car key and I am now a Glo ambassador. I will continue to convince all Nigerians to join the Glo network. God bless Glo.” Allen Onyige, a television production executive based in Berger area of Lagos who won a power generator was ecstatic with joy. POLL “I was actually trusting God for a new generator for my production work since last year, only for me to receive a call from Glo this January that I won a brand new generator. To God be the glory, this is a New Year gift from Glo. Now, I can go to work. More blessings to Globacom”, he said while 30-year-old Kafilat Rasak, a business woman from Oyo State who won a refrigerator said, “My family will enjoy the new fridge at home; I thank Glo and God for making my family happy”.