LAGOS  – Analysts have raised alarm over impending loss of about N1.9 trillion on account of reintroduction of excise duties on carbonated drinks in the country. They said while the Federal Government will stand to lose N197 billion in VAT, Company Income Tax and Tertiary Education Tax as a consequence of expected total projected receipts of N81 billion from the proposed reintroduction of the excise duties. They said the re-introduction of excise duties would lead to very sharp decline in sales, forced reduction in production capacity, and a certain roll back in investments with the certainty of job losses and possibly shut down of manufacturing plants by the manufacturers’ Fidelity Bank Extends CSR Projects In South West PRA 2014: PenCom Issues Certificate Of Compliance To 207… They maintained that the downturn in overall industry performance should the excise duties be effected as being planned will impose immense hardship on ordinary Nigerians who easily keep hunger at bay with a bottle of soft drink and maybe a loaf of bread. They urged the National Assembly to urgently amend the sections of the Finance Act which re-introduced excise duties on non-alcoholic and carbonated drinks, adding that implementing the increased taxes will impose more hardship on Nigerians as well as possibly lead to loss of 1.5 million jobs. They told Daily Independent that the current tough economic situation in the nation should see the government introduce fiscal palliatives and tax rebates instead of introducing excise duty collections, They advocated the need for government to rescind the re-introduction of excise duties, adding that it becomes even more compelling when the projected immediate revenue expected from the policy is weighed against the potential long-term loss to both manufacturers and government as the beverage sub-sector will lose 40% of its current sales revenue. Zainab Ahmed, the Minister of finance, budget and national planning, a few days ago, at the public presentation and breakdown of the 2022 budget, announced the introduction of excise duty of N10 per litre on all non-alcoholic, carbonated and sweetened beverages in the country. POLL She explained that the charge is part of a new policy introduced in the Finance Act which was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari on December 31, 2021, alongside the 2022 Appropriation Bill. Comarde Ayuba Wabba, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), in chats with Daily Independent, urged the Federal Government to halt its plans to reintroduce excise tax on locally produced non-alcoholic and carbonated drinks. He said: “ The Congress has warned that the beverage sub-sector will be losing sales revenue of about N1.9 trillion as well as Company Income Tax, VAT and Tertiary Education Tax of N197 billion as against the total projected receipts of N81 billion to government. Wabba, who implored the National Assembly to urgently amend the sections of the Finance Act which re-introduced excise duties on non-alcoholic and carbonated drinks, said that implementing the increased taxes will impose more hardship on Nigerians as well as possibly lead to loss of 1.5 million jobs. He cautioned the Federal Government not to allow the current situation to degenerate into a breakdown in industrial relations in the sector and generally in the country, noting that the food and beverage sub-sector has generated the coffers of government N202 billion as VAT in the past 5 years. Monetary, Fiscal Authorities Stimulus Programmes Boosted… Why FG Expands Tax Net, Introduce 6% Tax On e-Commerce Outlets According to him, the re-introduction of excise duties on non-alcoholic, carbonated and sugary drinks will impose immense hardship on ordinary Nigerians who easily keep hunger at bay with a bottle of soft drink and maybe a loaf of bread. ’Our concern is the mass hunger that would result from the slightest increase in the retail price of soft drinks owing to the imposition of excise duties as it would be priced beyond the reach of many Nigerians. ‘’With 38% of the entire manufacturing output in Nigeria and 22.5% share representation of the entire manufacturing sector in Nigeria, the food and beverage industry is the largest industrial sub-sector in our country”. Dr. Chinyere Almona,Director General, of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), told Daily Independent that the introduction of excise duty of N10/liter on non-alcoholic, carbonated and sweetened beverages by the Federal Government, despite its potential overwhelming negative impact is rather unfortunate and will be counterproductive. According to her, the revenue aspirations of government in introducing this excise may not be justified in the long run. She added: “Let us look at it this way, the government is estimated to generate an excise tax of N81bn between 2022-2025 from the group.This will not be sufficient to compensate the corresponding government’s revenue losses in other taxes from the Group. For instance, the corresponding effect of reduced industry revenue on government revenues is estimated to be up to N142bn contraction in VAT raised by the sector and N54bn CIT reduction between 2022 to 2025. This is not to mention the potential negative “There is no doubt that the potential revenue gains is the basis for the introduction of this excise “It would appear that the goose that lays the golden eggs is being led to perdition, seeing that the affected sub-sector, has contributed most significantly to the economy and taxes, despite the debilitating impact of Naira devaluation, inadequacy of forex and the COVID-19 pandemic. “The food and beverage contributed the highest (38%) of the total manufacturing sector to the GDP! It comprises 22.5% of manufacturing jobs and generates more than 1.5million jobs. So, this excise would certainly cast a sunset to this performance. “Furthermore, recent studies have shown that Introducing excise on non-alcoholic beverages is likely to cause a 0.43% contraction in output and about 40% drop in total industry revenues in the next five years”. She, however, said: “There will certainly be decline private households/ consumers purchasing power as they earn income mostly by supplying labour to the industry and from owning a share in industry capital”. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director-General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), said that the new excise duty would cause a 0.43 percent contraction in output and about 40 percent drop in total industry revenues in the next five years. “There will certainly be decline private households/ consumers purchasing power as they earn income mostly by supplying labor to the industry and from owning a share in industry capital. “Household in turn use this earned income to purchase food, shelter and products from this manufacturing industries. “An introduction of an additional tax will cause manufacturers in a bid to offset tax and maintain profit raise prices of their products to higher rates thus shifting tax incident to consumers”, he said He explained that food and beverages contributed the highest at 38 percent of the total manufacturing sector quota to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP). He added that the sector comprised 22.5 percent of manufacturing jobs and generated more than 1.5 million jobs. “One is particularly worried about the ripple effect on the introduction of the excise, despite strenuous evidence-based advice to the contrary,” NAN quoted him as saying, this will have an unpleasant impact on employment, households and consumers”, he said. Dr Muda Yusuf, Founder/CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE), and former Director General of Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in a chat with Daily Independent, said more taxes will further put pressure on real sector of the economy. He said: “The revenue aspirations of Federal Government by introducing new excise tax may not be justified in the long run and could further stifle the already burdened businesses, most of whom currently operate at less than 50% capacity utilization as well as an upsurge in unemployment rate with its attendant socio-economic consequences”. He implored the Federal Government to consider initiatives to support employment and income, including expanding safety nets with a food component to mitigate current rising fiscal deficit Mr Fred Chiazor, Chairman, Fruit Juice Producers branch of MAN told Daily Independent that the amount indicated a 39.5% loss due to imposition of the new taxes with concomitant impact on jobs and supply chain businesses and called for a suspension of the fiscal policy, citing that the proposed excise duty collection would shrink the sector’s contribution to the GDP which currently represented 35% of manufacturing. “Government can lose up to N197 billion in Value Added Tax (VAT), EIT fund and Collective Investment Trust (CIT) revenues occasioned by the drop in industry performance,” he said. Eneri Odiri Jackson, the National President of Water Producers Association of Nigeria (WAPAN), told our correspondent that the new revenue policy drive of the Federal Government will make Nigerians to witness sachet of water rise three times within the year from N5 to N10 and to N20. He said the implementation of taxes on chemicals used in water production would have a multiplier effect on the economy “There is no doubt that the price of pure water will rise from the present N20 to about N50,” Jackson said. Mrs. Clementina Chinwe Ativie, the National President of the Association for Table Water Producers of Nigeria (ATWAP), told our correspondent that the group’s membership has decreased by 16,000 on account of various economic challenges introduction of new excise tax on chemicals, despite the fact that the price of table water per unit has increased by over 150% in the last two years. She advised the Federal Government should suspend the idea of reintroducing the excise duty on both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages with a view to saving the industry from going into extinction.