One anomaly which, I think, may now have been accepted as Nigeria’s own contribution to campaign and election processes is thuggery. Indeed, the word has become part of our political register. Elsewhere, it is not associ­ated with elections but with violent social behaviour at ordinary times. Not so here. It’s an industry from where Nigerian politicians draw their best resources. Needless to say also that it determines the tenor of political activity in this part of the world. But, pray, should we accept that this word eventually become a Nigerian citizen? God for­bid that it should be so! It is painful that rather than progress at the pace being suggested by the elec­toral umpire, INEC, with recent digital trials, our ma­jor political actors insist on falling back on the raw asset called thuggery. This is what we were being reminded of again on Thursday when photos of arrested armed political thugs went viral. There were at least two ses­sions of arrest. In the first case, over 100 thugs were nabbed by mili­tary men at Itawure-Ekiti, Efon Local Government Area, on their way to the state allegedly for the gov­ernorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Expectations From The 2022 Lagos Budget Of Consolidation Buhari, Jonathan, Obasanjo, Sanusi, Okonjo-Iweala: When Heroes… They were arrested around 3am on Wednesday by men of the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Akure, Ondo State, at Ita Awure/Efon Junction in Efon Alaaye, in Ekiti State, were also heading towards Ado Ekiti for the party pri­maries. In the evening of the same day, the police in Ekiti confirmed the arrest of two suspected political thugs al­legedly also allegedly head­ing to disrupt party prima­ries in the state, The police public rela­tions officer, ASP Sunday Abutu, in a statement on Thursday, said the thugs were arrested on Wednes­day evening in a Toyota Hi­ace bus in Ijero-Ekiti, Ijero Local Government Area of the state. He explained that the operatives of the command suspects the movement of the bus loaded with twelve men and mobilised to the scene where he said they abandoned the vehicle and escaped into the bush. Abutu said: “The Police operatives advanced toward the suspected men and on sighting the Police, they abandoned their Bus and fled into a nearby bush. The oper­atives, however, gave them a hot chase and arrested two of them.” POLL The abandoned Toyota Hiace Bus was subsequently searched and items recovered were Four (4) single barrel guns, One(1) cut to size lo­cally made pistol, Seven (7) cartridges, and substance suspected to be charms.” Many others may have entered the state in the same manner without be­ing caught. It needs not be stressed that this is a point of departure for electoral exercises. What deserves to be stressed, perhaps, is the unfortunate truth that these scenarios would be common sight this year and early next year. When shall we come out of this situation? This is an unhealthy de­velopment that ought to have been eliminated from the na­tion’s political space. Much has been said about it, why then has it been difficult to trash? Because politics in the country is still largely a mat­ter of power and those who feature mostly in the drama are very desperate to grab power – they need it so much for self-assurance and preser­vation, as well as for what it can procure, materially and monetarily. The lure of power intoxicates and drive people into hideous maladies. Thugs help to access power through the back door, and many of the political actors we know are more willing to gain pow­er through the back door, because they can legitimize their stolen product through the court. See? So, thugs will be there – in our endemically hollow society. Now, to return to the state of reference, Ekiti, the exer­cise has arguably ended – con­tentiously. As usual. Another political achievement that won’t disappear soon. Segun Oni, PDP aspirant, and his supporters have re­jected the outcome of the process, citing disenfran­chisement and electoral mal­feasance. Same outcome all the time. What Went Wrong With Eguavoen And His Eagles? Menace Of Toxic Dust On Orlu-Owerri Road The Governor Emmanuel Udom led Governorship Pri­mary Committee declared Hon. Bisi Kolawole, a sup­posed protege of the immedi­ate past governor of the state, Ayo Fayose, as the winner of the primary. But a statement in Ado Ek­iti on Thursday by the Direc­tor-General of the Oni Cam­paign Organisation, Hon. Yemi Arokodare, expressed disenchantment at the pro­cess, alleging that the dele­gates register was mutilated and many delegates’ names were missing from the reg­ister, while 32 automatic del­egates who were accredited were not given tags and were not allowed to vote. Perfect party internal democracy. According to the state­ment, “Governor Udom al­legedly threatened to arrest and lock up all of the dele­gates if any of them should come into the hall.” The organisation also al­leged that Udom deliberately allowed Fayose, who heads a faction of the state PDP, to sit in the hall even after he had voted, against the rules earli­er pronounced by Governor Udom. It stated that Governor Udom allowed aides of Fay­ose to also sit in the hall to intimidate the delegates. Therefore, the organisation concluded that the primary was not free and fair. It said Ayo Fayose was the chairman of Gov Udom Em­manuel’s election committee in Akwa Ibom and that the Wednesday, January 26, 2022, PDP primary election was payback for Ayo Fayose. It said the Wednesday ex­ercise could not be adjudged free and fair, adding that it was in the process of review­ing the activities of the na­tional leadership of the PDP towards managing the party to success in the June 18 gov­ernorship election. Take note: the dominant feature of all electoral exer­cises this year has been estab­lished. Similarly, seven out of eight All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspi­rants in the same Ekiti State demanded the suspension of the party’s primaries on Thursday while it was still on. The aspirants — Kayode Mojo, Demola Popoola, Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi, Dayo Adeyeye, Opeyemi Bam­idele and Afolabi Oluwasola — were protesting alleged ir­regularities in the conduct of party primaries. They thronged the party Secretariat in Ado Ekiti with their supporters on Thurs­day, claiming the process had been manipulated to favour Abiodun Oyebanji, tagged Governor Kayode Fayemi’s preferred choice. They also accused the superintending officials of distributing voting materials earlier than scheduled with a sinister objective to give a sole aspirant an edge. They warned that the con­troversial primary may spell doom for the party as the re­sult of the election would not be acceptable. At the end of the exercise, former Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Biodun Oyeban­ji, indeed emerged winner to the chagrin of those who had rejected the primary. The Chairman, APC Gov­ernorship Primary Electoral Committee for Ekiti and Jiga­wa State governor, Abubakar Badaru, who declared Oye­banji winner of the primary election, said the former SSG scored 101,703 votes to defeat other aspirants. Badaru announced that former governorship aspi­rant, Kayode Ojo, got 767 votes; National Assembly member, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, scored 760 votes; former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, se­cured 691votes, and House of Representatives mem­ber, Femi Bamisile, scored 400 votes. Others are former House of Representatives member, Bamidele Faparusi, who gar­nered 376 votes, aviation ex­pert, Demola Popoola, who got 239 votes, and Oluwasola Afolabi who scored 47 votes. Badaru, who said the election followed the party’s guidelines, denied receiving any official complaint from any aspirant. The aggrieved aspirants had taken their grievances to the state headquarters of the Nigeria Police, the Inde­pendent National Electoral Commission, and the De­partment of State Services. However, expectedly, Oye­banji described the primary as credible, free and fair. But the African Union Economic Social and Cul­tural Council on Thursday appealed to the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretak­er Committee of the APC to annul the primary in the state over alleged fraud. As already noted, the pri­mary held across the state despite protests by seven of the eight aspirants jostling for the governorship ticket who had called for suspen­sion of the exercise over alle­gations that the local govern­ment committee members serving as electoral mem­bers were campaigners and supporters of a particular aspirant. The Nigerian represen­tative of AU- ECOSSOC, Dr. John Asaolu, said it was disappointing that the APC, which ought to be a shining light in Africa, could con­duct a primary that could aptly be described as a sham. Asaolu said: “We are dis­appointed that Ekiti State is far behind in politics of this nation. This AU body came to monitor this primary, but the guidelines are not being followed. “The AU charters on conduct of elections not fol­lowed. In any election, there should be respect for human rights and all interested par­ties should be carried along. “If the aspirants agreed that the election should be cancelled, majority must be allowed to carry the day and anything short of this is ir­regularity. The party must respect their opinions and listen to them. Their rights should not be violated.” These are the first prima­ry elections this year and others would follow in the same manner – thuggery, translucent primaries, and protestations amid declara­tion of results. As it was in the beginning (courtesy of British colonial conspiracy), so it is now (many decades after), and so shall it continue to be until some really politi­cally catastrophic event hap­pens. Anyone who is expecting a change through electoral reforms has missed it. What have all the reforms achieved when the will to enforce them is simply absent? How many have been prosecuted and jailed for political thuggery and other forms of electoral malfeasance? The rate at which people subvert elections will decrease according to the rate of prose­cution and convictions – of the real big fish, not of riff-raffs recruited by the big fish. Our greatest guarantee of a free society today and tomorrow is a leadership recruitment system devoid of these recur­ring political oddities that foist on us the very negation of our collective vision.