LAGOS – The Lagos State People Democratic Party (PDP) has sent a strong message to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State that it is set to take over governance of the state in 2023. This is as the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, Governors Nyesom Wike of Rivers, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia, Ifeanyi Uguwanyi of Enugu, Doye Diri of Bayelsa, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom States, as well as former Senate President of Senate, Bukola Saraki, Chief Bode George and other chieftains of the party received the leader of Lagos4Lagos movement, Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor into the party. The main opposition party in Lagos State, when it met at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) venue of the programme, did not mince words in telling the ruling party that the time to vacate the seat of power in Alausa had come, as over 7,000 Lagos4Lagos members joined Jandor to PDP. Arsenal Set To Offer Arteta New Contract Before End Of Season Police Recruitment: PSC Expresses Concern Over Low Enrollment Of… While formally welcoming Jandor into the party, the caretaker committee chairman of the party in Lagos State, Julius Akinsola advised the former chieftain of the APC  to read the constitution of the party stressing that the PDP is a party of justice and rule of law. He said, “I will advise you to bear in mind that the PDP as a party belongs to all Nigerians. It is a part that operates with justice and the rule of law. It is a party of the masses. We believe that with your supporters who came with you here test, PDP is the party to beat in 2023,” he said. Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu on his part said that the governors and chieftains of the PDP were at the event because a strategic person is joining the party, pointing out that the PDP is the only strategic party in Nigeria. “We joined the National Chairman of our great party to come here because you are important to us. I will ask all the members of the party in Lagos State to give you the necessary support and I will also appeal to you to see the members as members of your family,” Ikpeazu said. Ayu said that it was unfortunate that the members were deceived by the APC that it would offer a change. POLL “You gave your lives to the people who deceived you that they were going to bring change. Are you enjoying the change? How much is a bag of rice mow? We will come back to Lagos State in 2023 to launch a PDP governor in Lagos State,” Ayu said. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike said that as Jandor has joined the PDP, people must be expectant of the new thing that will happen in Lagos State PDP. Top dignitaries at the event were Chief Bode George, former Governor Segun Mimiko of Ondo State, Dr Remi Akiyoye, Honourable Rita Orji, Dr Bimbo Ogunkelu, Mrs Aduke Maina, Chief Kuye, Mrs Bucknor-Akerele, members of the national working committee, members of the South-West region executive committee, and a host of serving and former members of the National Assembly.