Dr Cairo Ojougboh, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Deputy Director General (DG) of Ali Modu Sheriff campaign and former Vice National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this conversation on Arise Television speaks about the forthcoming APC national convention and why Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, former Borno State governor is the best candidate for the job. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: Ali Modu Sheriff says he wants to run for the position of the national chairman of the APC and some people are not comfortable because at one time he was in the APC and at other time he was in PDP and now he is back in APC. He seems to be chameleonic and why are you supporting him? Sheriff was sitting down in his parlour when five PDP governors came to him. He didn’t show interest. They said that they looked at his antecedents, he won senatorial elections three times, was a governor two times in Borno State and has been a minority leader at the Senate, and why not? He crossed over to help them build the party. Sheriff made consultations across his political family and he got support to go ahead and help them. When he got there, what he saw was not the way parties should be run. He told them that if they wanted him to help them, they must listen to him. He is not a chameleon, he is a firm man. He is a soldier of truth and a man that you can go to war with, which is why he is very special in this race. The APC needs him now. The APC leaders believe across board that for APC to do well, complete its reconciliatory mission, the man that the job suits is Ali Modu Sheriff. He is very stable, faithful and very thorough in doing things. The President is not going to be on the ballot paper in the next election, the APC needs a man who can drive the boat and pilot it properly. Who else can do that? This is a family contest and all the candidates are friends, and they all know that if there is a man who can do the job, it is Ali Modu Sheriff. He is the best candidate for the job. Asking Osinbajo Not To Contest In 2023 Because Of Tinubu Is… 2023: Umahi Lifts Ban On Political Aspirations, Consultations In… Don’t you think that the lingering concern of many Nigerians of a link between Ali Modu Sheriff and Boko Haram will work against him in this race? Let me put it this way, If there is any person in Nigeria who has been a victim of Boko Haram, it is Ali Modu Sheriff. Five members of his immediate family have been killed in the Boko haram incident. He narrowly escaped death, because he hadn’t gotten to the point where a bomb was planted to kill him, before it exploded. In politics people carry a lot of rumour that they know nothing about. A man who has won a senatorial seat three times and has been a governor two times, is bound to have a lot of enemies. This is because any time that you defeat somebody in an election in Nigeria; the person becomes your enemy. They cooked up stories to bring the man down. How can anybody in his right senses accuse the Senator Sheriff of a link with Boko Haram. Security agencies in the country have investigated him and they have found out that he is innocent. The sponsors of Boko Haram are known and the Department of State Services (DSS), defense intelligence agencies, all investigated Senator Sheriff. If I have any iota of doubt that Ali Modu Sheriff has anything to do with Boko Haram, I will not support him or even talk to him. I am assuring Nigerians that Senator Sheriff has nothing to do with Boko Haram. All the governors, leaders of our party are supporting him and if it is true that he has anything to do with Boko Haram, nobody will support him. This rumour has been on ground for a long time even before the governors of PDP invited him to become the national chairman of the party. If Sheriff has a link with Boko Haram, PDP would not have invited him. It is one aspect of his political life that stands out for him, that an opposition party discovered that he had the capacity to lead them. How many Nigerians have received such an invitation? It will tell you that there is something special about him. There is this issue about security screening for aspirants of the position of national chairman, and some aspirants are not comfortable with Amodu Sheriff because he has only come with his money to bully everybody. Is it about money politics that you are surrogating for him? People come with a lot of things, they will tell you security screening and a whole lot, but they are mere rumours. Do you have a confirmation that there is security screening for anybody? Have the security agencies come out to say that they are screening candidates? Sometimes journalists should also know how to manage the things that they hear. There is no chairmanship aspirant in APC today who has done half of the job that Sheriff has done. He has visited all the governors, visited all the states. He has consulted with all the leaders, market women and automatic delegates of the party. If you look at his character, he is indeed excellent. POLL People will say that consultation doesn’t come free; you don’t go about consulting with empty pockets. It goes back to the issue of bullying with money. What can you say about that? Sometimes I wonder at his level of ingenuity. He can pick up his phone and call a very junior officer that he plans to visit but the person will say no that he is a leader but Senator Sheriff will refuse and still humbly visit the person. Without consultation you cannot win elections. In America, the advanced world is media and consultation. If he doesn’t consult they will say that he has used money to bully people. Consultation doesn’t come easy. People have to know you to agree that you should consult them. It is where his advantage lies; he is a man of the people. It is strange that Ali Modu sheriff went about saying that he was never a member of the PDP, that he was invited to be the national chairman of the party. What does that say about character, considering the fractionalization during his time as chairman? He didn’t say that because he couldn’t have been a chairman of the party without being a member of the party. If it is in Google, as you said, then we will correct it because you cannot be the chairman of a party without being a member of that party. A lot of people can put things on Google; it wasn’t Senator Sheriff that put it on Google. I was the national vice chairman of the PDP; South-South when Sheriff was invited to become the national chairman. It was the day that Seriake Dickson was inaugurated for a second term as the governor of Bayelsa State, on the 14th of February, 2018. Ten governors of the PDP suddenly walked into the arena and the seat next to me was offered to Senator Sheriff. He turned to me and asked if I heard what happened today. He said that he was just coming from a meeting in Port Harcourt where he was asked to become the national chairman of the party. He told me that the PDP governors did. It remains a fact that no other person in this country has ever gotten such an invitation. It tells you that Alin Modu Sheriff is a man of character. When he got there he told them the way to go and they didn’t believe him so he left them in peace. He is a good man. He is the best that the party needs to go to war with him. He will defend the common man and the market women. The governors will work with him. He is the man with the ability to make peace. He is ready to learn and is not shy when he doesn’t understand, and that is the quality of a good leader. Sheriff is the man to lead APC to victory. You seem to like working with controversial people, there is Sheriff and Godswill Akpabio. What is it about controversy that attracts you? Oyetola Charges Residents Of Ife/Modakeke To Sustain Peace JUST IN: Voting Ends In Ekiti PDP Governorship Primary If you sit down in your house, nobody will say that you are controversial, even leaders all over the world are tagged controversial. If you have to sit on the throne of judgement where people will come to you and you dispense judgement, truth, people will hate you. For you to win an election, become a governor, you will have very many enemies from your state, not to mention winning twice like Akpabio and like Sheriff did.