SYLVESTER ENOGHASE The difficulty in sourcing forex by manufacturers further dipped in the fourth quarter of 2021 as against what obtained in the preceding quarter, the Manufacturers Confidence Index (MCCI), an index constructed by the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) to measure changes in quarterly pulsation of manufacturing activities, has said. The Report presented the behaviour of key macroeconomic variables such as forex, lending rate, commercial bank loans and Federal Government Capital Expenditure based on the perspectives of CEOs of manufacturing concerns in the quarter under review. What Emefiele’s Projection On GDP’s Growth Portends For… FG Pledges Support To Manufacturers According to the report, “75.1% of manufacturers claimed that that forex sourcing by the sector did not improve in the quarter under review, which is higher than 59% that disagreed in the preceding quarter. The report also indicated that high-cost borrowing remained a perennial constraint of manufacturing in the country. Part of the report read: “Manufacturers believe that current lending rate discourages productivity in the sector. “75.1% of manufacturers observed that the current lending rate discourages productivity in the sector. This is higher than 68.0% which took the same position in the preceding quarter. “Limited access to funds variously has been identified as a persisting challenge of the manufacturing sector. POLL “In this quarter 71.1% of manufacturers noted that the smallness of size of commercial bank loans to manufacturing does not support productivity in the sector. 71.1% of manufacturers interviewed observed that the current commercial bank loan does not encourage productivity in the sector. “This is higher than 62% that made the same observation in the preceding quarter”. The report noted that Federal Government has consistently budgeted for upscaling infrastructure to support economic activities through execution of capital projects. However, low patronage of local industries, slow completion and general poor implementation of identified capital project has been the bane of the system with high-cost impact on manufacturing concerns. “57.4% of manufacturers enumerated are of the view that Government capital expenditure implementation does not encourage manufacturing. Emphasizing that capital expenditure implementation does not translate to adequate economic infrastructure and higher productivity”, it said. USA Women Group Honours Stella Onuoha-Obilor As Industry Leader… Applauding BUA Group’s Commitment To Nigerian Economic Growth… On operating environment performance, the quarter under review from the report indicated that the perspectives of CEOs on the state of manufacturing operating environment revealed mixed grilled performance; encouraging but slow positive growth; over regulated, high cost and manufacturing unfriendly environment. “On the high side, CEOs affirmed gradual reduction in inventory of unsold finished goods; improvement in local sourcing of raw materials and patronage of made in Nigeria goods. “On the low side CEOs confirmed that issues of multiple and duplication of regulation, which often find expression in excessive drive for tax revenue instead of widening the tax net; unfriendly tax practices of government agencies; poor access to the national ports leading to high cost of clearing cargo and transporting goods are seriously impeding the performance of the manufacturing sector”. The effect of the macroeconomic environment that prevailed in the quarter under review, according to the report, was overwhelming in differing magnitudes. The report indicated that, “key manufacturing indicators such as production and distribution costs; Capacity utilization; Volume of production; Investment; Employment; Sales volume; and Cost of shipment were on the high side. Clearly, this further strengthened the perception of a mixed grilled performance, visibly exposed the hotspots and served as a pointer to the fact that the sector is still challenged and requires comprehensive policy support” On the impact of macroeconomic environment on movement in key manufacturing indicators such as production & Distribution cost, capacity utilization, volume of production, Investment, Employment, Sales volume and Cost of shipment, “Production and distribution costs increased by 0.4 percentage point in the fourth quarter of 2021 from 20.0% recorded in the third quarter. However, the marginal increase in the period suggests that production and distribution cost are beginning to stabilize following the easing up of COVID-19 pandemic. “Capacity utilization fell further by 2 percentage points in the quarter under review from 3.0 decline recorded in the third quarter of the year; “Volume of production declined further by 1.7 percentage points in the fourth quart er of the year from 4.0% decline recorded in the preceding quarter. “Manufacturing investment dipped further by 0.2 percentage points in the quarter under review from 4.0 % decline recorded in the preceding quarter. 15% decline recorded in the second quarter of the year; “Employment declined further by 6.0 percentage point in the fourth quarter of 2021 from 5.0% decline recorded in the third quarter of the year. “Sales volume increased by 7.3 percentage points in the quarter under review from 7% decline recorded in the preceding quarter. “Cost of shipping increased further by 4.5 percentage points in the fourth quarter of 2021 from 29.0% recorded in the third quarter of the year”. The movement in the key manufacturing sector indicators from the MCCI report show that the macroeconomic environment is gradually improving as the impact on the indicators in the quarter under review generally receded. However, there is still the challenge of employment in the sector while cost of shipping is still high and escalating. “It is therefore, imperative that Government should evaluate the current processes for allocation of available forex to ensure it is allocated to the productive sectors of the economy, particularly at official rate for importation of raw-materials and machines that are not currently produced or available in the country”. The report noted that manufacturing performance is still below the mark, notwithstanding the marginal improvement in the operating environment during the quarter under review, as the sector is still plagued by numerous familiar constraints. Consequently, in order to improve the performance of the sector, Government needs to intentionally put in place mechanism that will address further incentivize investment in the development of raw-materials locally through the Backward Integration and Resource based industrialization initiates. “Government should call for more investor to key into these initiatives with appropriate and definite incentives. For instance, there is need for urgent investment and production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) in the country; investment and production of machines; iron and steel; petrochemical materials to support manufacturing activities. “Give specific attention to the security of life and investment in industrial areas; properly delineate and upscale security infrastructure in the various industrial areas in the country, particularly in the northern part of the country for priority attention. “Government should also quickly invest in modern security such as drones, camera, etc. for robust monitoring of the areas. “Ensure effective allocation of available forex to productive sectors, particularly the manufacturing sector for importation of raw materials and vital machine and equipment that are not available locally. Government also needs to expressly direct the Central Bank of Nigeria to consult with the Ministries of Industry Trade & Investment and effectively engage MAN on measures for improving forex supply to manufacturing concerns. “Direct the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation to inaugurate the Secretariat that will implement the strategies for the Executive Order and SON to designate local manufacturers of LPG Gas Cylinders as priority provider of the 10 million Cooking Gas Cylinders to be procured by the Government for 12 States in the Federation. “Return Milk and other Dairy Products to the National List in the Fiscal Policy Guidelines to maintain consistency with the Backward Integration Programme, which has spurred heavy investments in the diary production. “Revisit the resuscitation of the existing national refineries to produce fuels locally, embark on the rehabilitation of major highway corridors, improve trade facilitation infrastructure and deepen the ongoing development of rails system to change narrative on operating environment from being high cost to low production cost environment. “Government should ensure that industrial policies in the country are allowed to gestate with proper monitoring and evaluation rather than jettisoning or altering them unduly frequently. The continuous infractions on the original EPZ and tariffs for the Motor Vehicle and Assembly sector should be quickly remedied to the development of the zones and motor vehicle assembly in the country” The MCCI is an index constructed by MAN to measure changes in quarterly pulsation of manufacturing activities in relation to movement in the macroeconomy and Government policies. The Index is therefore, barometer used by MAN to aggregate the views of CEOs of manufacturing companies on changes in the economy. The standard diffusion factors considered in the MCCI processes include the Current Business Condition, Business Condition for the next three months, Current Employment Condition (Rate of Employment), and Employment Condition for the next three months and Production Level for the next three months.