ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has promised to investigate the alleged N700 million due to Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). Giving this promise during a familiarisation tour to AMAC, the Mandate Secretary, FCT Area Council Services Secretariat(ACSS), Alhaji Ibrahim Dantsoho promised to investigate the matter of funds raised by AMAC Chairman, Abdullahi Candido. While adding that the government is not unmindful of the prevailing security challenges in the country, saying, all hands must be on deck to ensure that there is peace before, during and after the February 12th, 2022 Area Council elections. Kanu: IPOB, Urges Ndigbo To Storm Umuahia High Court On… Dangote, Emefiele Commend Ogun As Investment-Friendly Speaking on the alleged N700 million due to AMAC is still being withheld by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), the Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Candido said there have been conflicting claims between FCTA and AMAC over the body empowered by law to collect certain taxes. He said, “There have been conflicting claims between FCTA and AMAC over the body empowered by law to collect certain taxes, especially tenement rates in the city centre with Candido insisting that the entire city centre, including the space where FCTA office is located, fall within AMAC’s jurisdiction”. “But if you refuse to give them, questioning how the volume of the funds will be spent and asking what they will do with the money. I think that is an aberration. When you refuse to speak the truth to the authorities, things will remain unresolved. With the way FCTA relates with the Area Councils, if there is no change, I pity the administration of Area Councils coming behind. Very soon some Area Councils will fold up and go out of business. Things are tough here. “In AMAC we have salaries close to N200 million. When we get the Joint Area Councils Allocation (JAAC) from FCTA, after one week the money is gone. Constitutionally the council is charged with the collection of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), but the FCTA is also interested in certain things that the Area Council is supposed to do.