Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Seye Oladejo, in this interview with newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday, speaks on Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s presidential aspiration, among other current issues. AKINWUNMI KING, who was part of the session, brings the excerpts: The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) formally received the convener of Lagos4Lagos Movement into its fold and the crowd was massive. How does the Lagos All Progressives Congress (APC) take this? At our end, we regard what happened in Lagos last Friday as part of festive activities bordering on entertainment towards the end of the year and the New Year. It underscores the lack of seriousness of the party called PDP, if some of their governors could leave their states on a working day when they should be busy trying to cater for the well-being of their citizens who innocently and erroneously voted them into office, not knowing that they will be wasting their precious time attending a non-event. PDP governors came all the way from their states to receive a political non-starter, the same PDP governors that could not stop their colleagues from jumping from the umbrella to the ruling party, came to Lagos for what at best I could describe as a circus. They had leaders of PDP who overtime could not even deliver their polling booths bosting all over that they will win Lagos. They had the likes of former Senate President, Bukola Saraki who literally lost deposit during the last elections in Kwara State. So, for us, it was a non-event, they said they had a crowd, we are aware of the fact that they rented the crowd, we are aware of the fact that they mobilized crowds from neighbouring states. I want to congratulate the young man who is excited, Jide Adediran aka Jandor, that it was a very good payday for him, I am sure he must have made massive profits from the contributions of those PDP governors. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… APC Drifting, Exposing Damaged Profile – Lukman Warns… At that event, they made it clear that they were coming to rescue Lagos from godfatherism and that Lagos should be governed by indigenes of the state. What is your take on this? I think they should just wake up from this daylight nightmare. They have been saying the same thing since 1999 about the state being controlled by one man who has remained invincible for them in their imagination. Democracy doesn’t come better than this, if since 1999 our party has been putting forward candidates that Lagosians find acceptable, that have been building on the achievements of previous governments since the advent of democracy in 1999, I think Lagos can only just count itself lucky. All these refrains about elections being rigged permanently, I think it borders on some lazy politicians who don’t know their onions. PDP has nothing to offer this state and let me just assure you, in the coming election, despite all the challenges of the recent past, Lagos State still remains under the firm grip of the APC. Looking at the structure that the Jandor Movement has been able to build across the state, don’t you see that as a threat to the APC? You called Jandor a movement, maybe a movement without motion. You see, politicians are funny people, you assume a whole lot of strength sitting in your comfort zone in your constituency and you see a crowd that are largely paid and you just misconstrued that to be popular support. Jandor himself came from nowhere; just a few years ago, he was a struggling cameraman with LTV. Questions should be asked, he suddenly came into money and started throwing money about, same is now going to contest for governorship. People should learn that there are rules and processes to these things, he is not willing to learn the ropes and you can see how he has been making a whole lot of errors, even in his movement to the PDP, putting the cart before the horse. He first declared his intention, later on, he started moving around to meet with PDP leaders in the state. For a well-grounded politician, the reverse would have been the case. You could also see that key PDP leaders were not at that event, the Ade Dosunmu, the Jimi Agbaje, the Gbadamosi, and that speaks volume about the kind of person we are talking about. It is all about picking the governorship ticket of the PDP, mark my words, he won’t pick that ticket and he will still move to another party. In the next few months, you will not hear anything about Lagos4Lagos Movement again. There are insinuations that some of his followers are still in the APC working as moles and these people are likely to work against the party in the coming elections in the state. Is the APC not worried about this? POLL Does he have the political visibility or status of the likes of Senator Obanikoro and so many other people who moved from the progressive family in the past? People will always clamour even when the clamour is unjustified, it won’t make any difference. APC is well-grounded in every nook and cranny of this state, it won’t make any difference, we will still have this conversation after the election, after we must have won 100 percent. One of the major reasons given by Jandor for leaving the APC is lack of internal democracy. How do you react to that? I just told you earlier that the young man is largely very confused. He is not in the best position to assess what goes on in our party. His membership of the party couldn’t have been more than one year plus. Since inception of the APC, there’s always been a level playing field for whoever wants to aspire in our party, even as we speak now, you find a whole lot of people in various constituencies already aspiring in the party. If they have no hope of picking the ticket or having a level playing ground, why are they aspiring? There is this allegation that Jandor has some top chieftains of the APC funding his movement. How true is this? We also have our suspicions that there could be people within the APC – you see, APC is such a wonderful family that the issues that led to the formation somehow continue to be an albatross. A number of strange bird fellows came together to form the party and this party is supposed to be progressive and some of them have not really been able to drop their old toga of being retrogressive in their thinking. So we have our suspicions, we know that on the basis of what is on ground, Jandor doesn’t have the resources on his own, he has sponsors but these do not count for nothing. In politics, when you have sponsors that are largely faceless, who would not want to identify with you, it doesn’t count for anything. But I think he has moved a step ahead of his initial sponsors by now sleeping with strange bird fellows. My Aspirations Is To Champion Cause Of Youths In Nasarawa… Nyanya Bus Terminal: FCTA Summons Contractors, Others The national leader of your party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has told President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to run for the presidency in 2023. Do you think he’s likely to get that support from other state chapters of the APC? We are excited about Asiwaju’s aspiration but let me give a background to it. We all come to politics with one ambition or the other, so we should say we are excited that for once, we have someone who is a willing aspirant. He’s not been forced on us and he’s not been thrown up by circumstances to run for the office. So contrary to what some people will want to pick on that he said that it is his lifelong ambition, I think that is something we should be happy about. As we speak, we have about 1800 different groups across the country clamouring for Asiwaju’s candidature, clamouring for him to throw his hat into the ring for the presidential election. Let me assure you, Asiwaju is well-grounded. Overtime, he has built a whole lot of goodwill, a whole lot of bridges across the country, across various ethnic nationalities. Asiwaju has been, overtime, a man of the people, and maybe for a very long time, like he said, he knew this day will come when he will need the various people he has been able to help. People call him a kingmaker, it’s a creation of the media. Kingmaker, godfather, Lion of Bourdillon, many of the various titles they gave him, but he never calls himself any of those titles. And so, if at a time like this, when you look at the various issues bordering on the economy where he’s well-grounded, bordering on security, education, good healthcare, I think it’s right time for us to have a personality like Asiwaju to run for the presidency and we are very optimistic. Though the opposition will have their say but the people will have their way. Some people are talking about falsification of age, educational qualification, and source of wealth of Asiwaju, all these allegations and blackmail over Asiwaju Tinubu’s source of wealth, education qualification and age, are unjustifiable because they are accusations without substantive facts. Asiwaju’s wealth cannot be measured in monetary value and in terms of naira and kobo. His wealth should be measured by the goodwill and image he has built through development of men who are willing to play their parts at a time like this. These men are spread all over Nigeria.” It is also very interesting that those in opposition suddenly have access to Asiwaju’s medical record and they have become the authority on his state of health. Asiwaju’s movement to different parts of the country in the last few months showed that he is medically fit going by the World Health Organisation, which defines good health as a complete state of physical, psychological and social wellbeing. There are strong indications that the vice president, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, will also contest for the presidential ticket. How’s your party planning to manage this? It is within the right of the vice president to want to aspire too. He has been in the saddle as the VP for the past six years or thereabouts. It is also possible that he might not necessarily be a willing aspirant and for reasons best known to some people, they are trying to push him into the race. It is also in the public space that a whole lot of people benefited immensely from Asiwaju’s large heartedness. When you call him a kingmaker, I will call him a fisher of men, through him, a whole lot of people have been able to fulfill their destiny, people that would have been largely obscured and just do their thing wherever they belong before entering into political visibility through him. Be that as it may, I think appropriately, our party will handle it.