ABAKALIKI – It was a dream come true for the people of Ishiagu community in the Ivo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State following the restoration of electricity in the area, forty years after suffering a total blackout. President General of Ishiagu Community Development Union (ICDU), Mr. David Aja, who spoke during the official ceremony marking the official restoration of electricity in the community on Saturday, disclosed that the unfortunate development was a result of the activities of some individuals who go about vandalizing electrical installations in the area. Aja, who expressed joy over the reconnection, said it was a memorable day for the community, adding that his ambition since he emerged the president of the ICDU had been to restore electricity to the community. Two Police Officers Missing, Others Wounded In Ebonyi Community… TCN Restores National Grid After Partial Collapse “We believe that we have a lot of bad people around, who never want Ishiagu to grow, they go about vandalizing and removing the wires “In 2019, we caught one of them and he’s in prison now. Because restoration of electricity in Ishiagu has been my priority, I said if God allowed me to be the ICDU president, this would be my first priority, to reconnect Ishiagu to the national grid, and that’s what we’re doing here today”, he explained. To avert further vandalization of electricity installations in the area, the President General disclosed that a security committee had been inaugurated to secure the installations. The chairman of the works committee of ICDU, Mr. James Nweke, had earlier in his remarks, said the reconnection gulped over one hundred and eleven million, four hundred and fifty thousand naira. Nweke said the initiative would go a long way to boost economic activities and better the lives of people in the community. POLL “This community has been moving backward because of lack of electricity. With electricity now restored, everybody will benefit. The economic value of having electricity is too enormous,” he said. Also speaking, the leader of Ohanaeze National youth Wing, Engr. Damian Okafor, who hails from the community, said restoration of electricity in the community had been their collective dream. He commended the ICDU leadership for ensuring the restoration of electricity in the community; noting that it would equally boost the confidence of the people in business and investment. Meanwhile, the Chief executive of Gintek limited, Mr. Joseph Eze, assured the community that his company would ensure the delivery of all installations in the community within the period of three months, and urged them to provide adequate security for the equipment. Some members of the community, Mr. Ejiofor Ndukwe, Hon. Afudike Emmanuel, amongst others, lamented the horrible experience they had faced due to lack of electricity and described the restoration as a welcome development.