LAGOS  – Baba Aladura, Elder Dr. Israel Akinadewo, Prelate, Motailatu Church Cherubim and Seraphim Worldwide (MCCSW), has asked Christians to channel their time and energy to being productive. He said some Christians hinder their prayers when they engage in idle talks, gossips and other unedifying things. Akinadewo, Vice President, Organisation of African Instituted Churches (OAIC), warned Christians who aim at succeeding in life to steer clear of keeping the wrong companies. Remembering God’s Generals Who Answered The Last Call In 2021 Approach 2022 With Determination, Adeboye Advises Akinadewo advised leaders not to be carried away with praises, especially from those benefitting from their positions, but have in mind that life is transient. In his message entitled, ‘Lesson from King David’, he further advised Christians to show more hospitality, love, gratitude and humility. “In most cases, we focus more on those that hate us, we at times assumed unverified hatred within our heart when we were supposed to utilise our time for productive things. “Do we know that despite the evil plans of Judas Iscariot against his Master and the awareness of the Messiah of this plot, He still did not destroy the disloyal and unfaithful disciple, but kept speaking to him (Judas) majorly in parables,” Akinadewo stated. He reiterated that it has been observed and written by many religious scholars that focus determines pedestal. POLL “We pray, but distract ourselves with things that can’t elevate us…When you are in top positions; you will have many people around you, but don’t be deceived because 99% might just be attracted by your elevated height. Just a second of misfortune (God forbid), you will get the true reality about friendship. “Learn to be charitable in words, finance, encouragement, hospitality but not at the expense of your life. “Rather than telling people that you don’t have when you know that you have, please tell them that the ones that you have will not be enough to give to them. Be positive in your confessions,” Akinadewo stated. He went further on the keys of success, stating: “Who is that man that will be poor all the days of his life, is that one that the sleeping time is more than the productive hours. It’s that man that discusses more of people’s failings rather than people’s achievements. “Learn that you are not safe with anyone that disparages his helpers, employers, his leaders in your presence. The truth is that anyone that could use evil to repay good, will still do worse to you that have the time to listen to the evil stories. JFC Seeks Lasting Solution To Travails Of IDPs A Good Government Should Not Dismiss Criticisms – Odesola “In all of these, it’s the beginning of a new year. People say that your attitude determines your altitude, but I will conclude that your character this year will determine the level and rate of your testimonies. Stay blessed and be positive in your ideological lifestyles.”