P/HARCOURT – It was yet another season of fanfare as friends and well-wishers of the President of Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mine and Agriculture, PHACCIMA, Sir Mike Elechi converged at Vintage Community, in Ikwerre local government area of Rivers State to witness this year’ fishing festival. Speaking at the event, the second Deputy President of PHACCIMA, Hon Prince Charles Beke, said: “we gather here for the fishing festival, to relax, interact, exchange views and create funs among other things”. Hon Beke described Sir Mike Elechi as a technocrat with several good vision, saying that this is an idea to make Rivers State an interesting place for investors. Rivers Govt Bans Cart Pushing, Indiscriminate Posting Of Advert Rivers Council Exhibits Cultural Heritage, Calls On Investors To… “When this started, it was like a play but today, it has expanded and soonest it will speak louder in promoting the tourism potential of Rivers State. Also speaking, the former Chief Medical Director of University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, Prof. Aaron Ojule, said that the fishing festival has become a permanent feature of the cultural calendar for them in Rivers State as they gather on every first of January to celebrate together and praise God for the new year. He commended Sir Elechi for initiating the event which according to him is getting better, adding that it will grow to international standard. Speaking later, the President of PHACCIMA, Sir Mike Elechi, explained that “as a fisher Man, by having a fish pond around me, I decided to do a lake where the run-off water move into the lake like a borrow pit, at the end of the day, I saw the need to add some fish inside the place since we are also training fish here and it became a resort for fish and other aquatic lives being trained here. “I saw that it could be converted for a part-time which has now turned to a recreation center for about over 18 years now and we made it an annual event scheduled on every 1st of January. With consistency, we can add value to the national economy”, he said. POLL The PHACCIMA President also said that the little idea has grown to attract dignitaries from all walks of lives as people travel even from outside the country and Abuja to the hinter land not only to wine and dine but also to catch fish at recreational center. “Am trying to bring back the culture of fishing and farming which is the main occupation of the Ikwerre people and also to teach those who don’t have the culture, there is no year people don’t come out not because am the President of PHACCIMA which is the arrow Head of business including tourism”. Elechi further said that he will continue to improve on what they have started to raise standard, positing that they added bole to make this year colourful than the previous years.