LAGOS – After scoring six goals at the group stage of the ongoing African Cup of Nations (AF­CON) in Cameroon, the Super eagles have been rewarded with a whooping N49.4 mil­lion ($120,000). The donation was made by Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), a coalition of private sector companies that were set up to fight Covid-19 in Nigeria. This was disclosed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele, himself a member of CACOVID, when he, in the company of President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick, visited the camp of the team in Ga­roua, Cameroon. BREAKING: 3SC GM, Rasheed Balogun Dies At 62 Ramat Cup 2022 Begins February 12 While speaking to the team, Emefiele said: “Nige­rians are very elated that our football is coming back again; they are very happy that we now have a set of disciplined and committed young men that are working very hard to lift Nigeria to glory. “And I want to say this, compared to what other teams have received from their own delegation, we have not done everything that you want. In spite of this, you are giving all that you have for the good of the country and not just for yourselves. “Nigerians are very happy with you; when you about to play the first match, you were just finishing your lunch when I came in with Pinn­ick, I met the coach and the captain. “That day, I came in with a message from the CACOVID led by myself and Alhaji Aliko Dangote. “The Sports Minister and Dangote asked that I be here today. During the first meet­ing I had with the coach and the team captain, the CA­COVID asked that I deliver a message that for every goal scored, the team will receive a Naira equivalent of $20,000. POLL “From round of 16, for every goal scored, you will earn for yourselves a Naira equivalent of $50,000. Femi Otedola, who is a member of CACOVID, said if you lift the trophy, you will have for yourself a Naira equivalent of $250,000 Everything is done to make you all happy and encourage the youths,” he said.