LAGOS – The General Overseer of the Sanctuary for the Broken Hearted International Ministries, Prophetess Margaret Ade Mayaki, has called for special prayers for Nigeria, against enemy’s aggression, wastage of lives due to terrorist’s activities, political unrest, coup detat and invasion. According to a three batch of prophecies released in the early hours of the new year, Prophetess Mayaki said that 2022, will among other things, be a year of divine fulfilment. “Thus saith the Lord, this year, many will receive their crowns of glory. This year will usher in glorious destinies. It will be a year of divine fulfillment of the lives of believers. The year will usher in floodgates of open heaven to the children of God. Crowns of glory are being released to believers who have done well. This year, heaven is declared open to believers who are working according to My divine will in the name of Jesus Amen. ‘Over 39.65m MSMEs Operate In Nigeria’ Victory Is Definite, Muoka Assures As Mgbidi Crusade Ends “This year, heaven has released heavenly gifts and royal diadems to worthy children of God. God will multiply our seeds and bring in multiple harvests. The Lord is saying that He is going to cancel the spirit of death that Satan has passed judgment over. Heaven will remove spiritual embargoes placed on the lives many. This year will see powers of witchcraft broken over many believers’ lives, and many lives will be curbed from the clutches of hell back to the kingdom of God.” Prophetess Mayaki prophecies also touched on the many mantles that are going to be released to worthy servants and prophets of God. “This year will see some old guards change of batons, thereby releasing new batons to the new generals, many servants of God that are not prepared to work faithfully with God, will see their candlestick taken away from them. Pray against the earth that has opened its mouth wide in order to swallow some innocent lives of people, pray against the increase of killings of the Christians, pray against serious devaluation of our currency again, pray for the perfect will of God to be made manifest in Nigeria, there will be an increase in women going into politics, thus saith the Lord, there will be sudden death of some powers that think they are unmovable. Pray for the peace and stability of the nation. Pray against hardship and hunger in the nation. Pray against civil war arising in the country.” she reeled out. Miyaki’s prophecies this year also extended to the body of Christ, stating that, Christians need to run their race of life with focus. That the Lord said, believers need to rise above mediocre lives and put themselves on altars of fire of God. Believers therefore need to pray against the spirit of disunity in the Body of Christ, pray against the increase of believers, pray that the Church will rise from her slumber, pray against 2022, year of divine fulfilment but pray against enemy aggression, Prophetess Mayaki said. Her prophecies this year also extended to the body of Christ, stating that Christians need to run their race of life with focus. POLL She said that the Lord told believers to rise above mediocrity and put themselves on altars of fire of God. “Believers, therefore, need to pray against the spirit of disunity in the Body of Christ, pray against the increase of believers, pray that the Church will rise from her slumber, pray against attacks of the enemies against the voice of the word of God, pray against the spirit of division in the Body of Christ, pray for the spirit of one accord as in the Upper Room in the Book of Acts, pray that destinies will not be aborted in the spiritual wombs, pray against the spirit of wasters among the youths, pray against the spirit of barrenness, pray and break the yoke of delays, pray against powers of witchcraft that wants to limit children of God, pray that every lost axe head will be recovered back, pray for the glory of the Lord to cover the Body of Christ, with God releasing young prophets and prophetess that will take the nations by storms,” she admonished.