LAGOS – Goal-Tile International, an idea and content development company, has launched a sports reality TV show, Stakers Championship, which will run from March 27 to May 28, 2022. In a press briefing in Lagos to announce the event, the managing director of Goal-Tile International, Dr Olalekan Alao Michael, said the event was borne out of their desire to deepen the gains from sports betting generally and football betting, in particular, explaining further that the reality TV show would be highly engaging and entertaining. “Stakers Championship will be a highly engaging, widely received and entertaining reality television show here in Nigeria. Djokovic In Australian Open Draw As Deportation Threat Loom AFCON: Continue With Winning Mentality, Rep Member Urges Eagles “It is the only sports-themed 24hrs reality show available on the Nigerian television space for the entertainment of Nigerian sports enthusiasts. “Stakers Championship is hinged on three factors mainly entertainment, anticipation and reward. The show will feature 32 contestants who compete for the title of Staker’s champion. “To win, each contestant will pitch against the other in a high-end contest, analysing matches and making predictions on real live games across the globe to the entertainment of millions of audience who are ready to stake on the predicted games and win. “Each contestant stays or leaves the competition based on the accuracy of his/her predictions, votes from fans and other criteria. “After nine weeks of exciting games, inspiring stories and thrilling entertainments, a winner emerges as the Stakers champion. POLL The winner gets N30m cash plus a car and a trip to watch the UEFA Super Cup final in Helsinki, Finland. First runners up get N5m while the second runners up are rewarded with N2.5m.” The organisers said to participate, a contestant will have to obtain a N1,000 registration form. The form, they said, can be filled online and payment via the Stakers Championship website at www.stakerschampionship.com. “A computer-generated code will also serve as the password for each applicant after payment confirmation. Registration started from January 11 and will run through February 22, 2022,” they said. After registration, the applicant will upload a 30 seconds video showing him/her sharing information about his/her favourite coach, favourite team and favourite player. The audition will follow after the registration where the 32 contestants who will go into the show will be selected. Wasteful Nigeria Begins 2021 AFCON On A Winning Note …“33” Export Lager Hails Super Eagles’ Bright Start Meanwhile, among the hosts and judges for Stakers Championship include popular radio sports personality, Chief Suo, Biola Kazeem and reality TV stars, Uti Nwachukwu and Liquorose. Speaking, Tunde Aina, the COO of Startimes, the media partner for the show, said they were happy to partner with Stakers Championship, promising that they would ensure it is broadcast 24 hours daily.