Dr. Reuben Jaja, Chief Executive Officer of BFI Group Corporation, USA, in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on the weak contribution of the non-oil sector of the economy to foreign exchange earnings, revenue and quality jobs. Excerpt: What is your take on the 2021 third quarter GDP growth report and the economic implications? Well, the 4.03% Gross Domestic Products (GDP) growth which recorded in the third quarter of 2021 marked the fourth consecutive quarters of GDP growth recorded since the exit of Nigeria from recession in Q4 2020 is a welcome development, and a pointer that the economy is on the right track in terms of growth and development. However, there are lingering concerns around the inclusiveness of the growth and the productivity of the non-oil sector of the economy which accounts for 92.51% of the GDP which I will like to make clear here that the projections are underpinned by the weak contribution of the non-oil sector to foreign exchange earnings, revenue and quality jobs. This is also underscored by the weak global competitiveness of the non-oil economy which the government needs to take into considerations in decision making. The key challenges bedevilling the non-oil sector are issues bordering on the macroeconomic instability, currency depreciation, forex liquidity, regulatory constraints, policy inconsistency, security of lives and property, structural bottlenecks and barriers to import and export trade and burdensome bureaucracy. Why FG Expands Tax Net, Introduce 6% Tax On e-Commerce Outlets Zinox Boss, Ekeh, Donates N500m For Job Creation In Imo State What can you attribute to the recent positive growth trend in the economy? The recent positive growth trend in the GDP could be attributed to the economic stimulus programmes by monetary and fiscal authorities which boosted the rebound of domestic economic activities following the relaxation of restrictions on economic activities and movement within the country. The revitalisation of sectors that were earlier on lockdown following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic such as the hospitality, entertainment, aviation, road transportation, tourism, among others, and also the restoration of supply chains that were disrupted at the inception of the pandemic can be attributed to the growth model. Also, recovery of the global economy following improvements in investors’ sentiments as a result of improved vaccination in many parts of the world as well as the rebound of commodity prices which had a positive impact on macro-economic outlook, which for instance make Crude oil price to record an impressive recovery in last couple of months cannot be over-emphasised. On the economic implication, the Q3 GDP report which shows that the contributions of for instance, Agriculture: 29.94%; crude oil and gas: 7.49%; manufacturing: 8.96%; trade 14.93%; telecom and ICT: 11.94% sectors to GDP indicated that the non-oil sector accounts for 92.51% while the oil sector accounts for 7.49%. This is a reflection of the dominance of the non-oil sector. It is also a reflection that economic players are much more active and involved in the non-oil economy. However, the paradox is that the oil sector still accounts for over 50% of revenue and over 90% of our foreign exchange earnings. This is a manifestation of the low level of productivity in the non-oil sector. The performances of these sectors, therefore, indicate that reforms are imperative to scale up productivity in the non-oil sector of the economy in order to enhance its contributions both to revenue and foreign exchange earnings. This is the way to make the economy more sustainable and stable. It also shows that there is a need to de-risk investment in the real sector of the economy to reduce the dominance of the service sector in the economy. We cannot afford an economy that is very weak in production and the associated competitiveness challenges. This is the sustainable pathway to promote the self-reliance and backward integration agenda. There should be deliberate policy of the government to plug into the global value chain rather than be consumed in building a wall around the domestic economy. We suggest that there should be regular engagement with stakeholders across sectors to get feedback from investors and stakeholders in order to gather empirical evidence to enhance the quality of fiscal and monetary policies. In the face of Nigeria’s rising debt profile, not few experts are advocating increase in local production. In your view, how do you think local production of goods can be boosted? POLL In my view, embracing import substitution to increase local production of goods is the way out. Nigeria’s consistent failure to revive its agricultural sector would seem to suggest that import substitution policies have been faulty. However, when examining the Nigerian government’s implementation of these policies, it becomes clear that the motivations and intentions of Nigeria’s import bans—the country’s preferred policy application—were primarily not intended to stimulate growth in the sector. Nigeria’s current trade policies suggest that there have been wide ranging motivations for import prohibitions that match the justifications offered by the Nigerian government. While the government claims its import bans have been aimed at boosting local agriculture and manufacturing economies, the timing of various import bans over the past several decades has coincided with falls in oil prices. The pattern suggests that the intentions for prohibiting the importation of agricultural products are mixed. At times, these restrictions seem to safeguard foreign currency reserves when oil prices fall rather than stimulate domestic production. Can you breakdown what you mean by import substitution? Import substitution is a trade and economic policy that advocates replacing imports with domestic production. It is based on the premise that a country should attempt to reduce its foreign dependency through the local production of industrialised products. How can we tap into backwards integration and value addition? Value addition is very critical when we are talking about building an inclusive economy because it is through value addition we can do backward integration and it is through backward integration we can achieve what we call multiplier effect in an economy and if you do not have production. The backlash could also make it very difficult to get that kind of thing done and this is why you see our investors in agriculture, agricultural processing, manufacturing and the rest they will need to sit down and examine the constraints that they are facing and whatever we need to do very quickly. New Tax On Carbonated Drinks Will Result To Sudden Decline In… 4th Mainland Bridge: Another Conduit Pipe? What is your take on the impact of these security challenges on investors’ confidence? The crisis projects the Nigerian economy as an unsafe investment destination, and if unaddressed, would thwart government’s efforts in encouraging private investment inflows into the economy at a time the economy is in dire need of massive investments to bolster growth recovery, create jobs and alleviate poverty. We note that investors’ confidence had been weak before the COVID-19 outbreak, and many investors still see the Nigerian market as a risky venture despite the oil price recovery, vaccination dissemination and growth recovery. We believe confidence will remain weak in the short-term if the situation does not abate. What about the impact on government’s fiscal position? The worsening security situation also impacts the fiscal position of government by making policymakers incur unplanned security-related expenditure at the detriment of infrastructural development expenditure. This could worsen this year’s actual fiscal deficit levels amid fragility in revenue growth from oil and non-oil sources. What are your suggestions as the way forward? It is critically important to have this challenge urgently resolved so that the pervasive fear and anxiety inflicted by the fear of insecurity can come to end. We believe decentralising the security eco-system would help stem the rising tide as it enables other levels of government take key security-related decisions and initiatives within their domain. We enjoin the executive arm of government to liaise with the legislative arm to take security out of the exclusive list of the Nigerian Constitution and include it in the concurrent list. Of course, the sub nationals need to play more active roles in the restoration of peace in or country through the creation of a security machinery and architecture that would be controlled by them, subject of course to certain guidelines, especially regarding the rules of engagement. There is a need to ensure a concrete and sustainable means of reducing youth unemployment rate through youth employment schemes and programmes. There is a strong correlation between unemployment and criminality.