Jason Momoa is allegedly negotiating a main role in the upcoming 10th installment of the Fast And Furious franchise. The 42-year-old heartthrob would be starring alongside Vin Diesel, who has been a mainstay of the series since its first movie. Universal gave no comment to a Hollywood Reporter article alleging that Jason is now in the last stage of talks for the role. ‘Game Of Thrones’ Star Jason Momoa Shaves Signature Beard Justin Lin, who has directed three previous Fast And Furious movies including the most recent entry F9 from last year, is back at the helm for film 10. Franchise mainstays Ludacris, Tyrese Gibson, Michelle Rodriguez and Sung Kang are all going to be in the picture, and F9 actress Charlize Theron may return as well. The news of Jason’s alleged potential role comes two months after a spat between Vin and former Fast And Furious franchise star Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson. Dwayne joined the series for the 2011 feature Fast Five and remained on board through the 2017 movie The Fate Of The Furious, the eighth in the chronology. His character Luke Hobbes was such a hit with viewers that he also led a 2019 spin-off called Hobbes And Shaw alongside action heartthrob Jason Statham. POLL However The Rock was absent from F9 – and in an emotional Instagram post this past November, Vin begged him to return to the fold. Vin, 54, called Dwayne, 49, ‘my little brother’ and even invoked their late co-star Paul Walker who had died tragically in a car crash eight years before. using his nickname for Paul, Vin wrote in his Instagram appeal to The Rock: ‘I told you years ago that I was going to fulfill my promise to Pablo. I swore that we would reach and manifest the best Fast in the finale that is 10!’ Vin’s post also included a nod to his own family: ‘As you know, my children refer to you as Uncle Dwayne in my house. There is not a holiday that goes by that they and you don’t send well wishes… but the time has come.’ Dwayne responded by telling CNN: ‘I was very surprised by Vin’s recent post. This past June, when Vin and I actually connected not over social media, I told him directly – and privately – that I would not be returning to the franchise.’ The Rock slammed his former co-star, saying: ‘Vin’s recent public post was an example of his manipulation. I didn’t like that he brought up his children in the post, as well as Paul Walker’s death. Leave them out of it.’ However he had warm words for the franchise, noting: ‘My goal all along was to end my amazing journey with this incredible Fast And Furious franchise with gratitude and grace. It’s unfortunate that this public dialogue has muddied the waters.’ The 10th movie is currently scheduled to come out May 19, 2023, with principal photography expected to begin in the spring of this year. Meanwhile Jason has just come off a shock split from his wife Lisa Bonet, with whom eh shares his children Lola, 14, and Nakoa-Wolf, 13. It has just been reported he is living in a $750k RV, which he has customized with such amenities as a kingsize mattress and has used in the past for location shoots. He is said to have parked the RV at the home a friend whose home is located near Jason’s marital home with Lisa, where she lives with the children. (SOURCE: Daily Mail UK)