LAGOS – Analysts have implored the Federal Government to relax its restriction policy on food importation to prevent escalation of food crisis amid the ongoing pandemic They advised the Federal Government to adopt a paradigm shift this year with a view to pushing through key reform agendas that would lay the foundation for a resilient economy. They said it was necessary for the Federal Government to secure the farmers and their farmlands as aggregate food production by the local farmers is the bedrock on which the systems of Nigeria’s food security rest. FAAN Sets To Expand Infrastructure At Lagos Airport PZ Back On Profitability Growth Path, Shareholders Approve… They advocated the need for the Federal Government to develop a strong mechanism in tracking how its macroeconomic policies, be it fiscal or monetary, affect the disposable income of individuals and households in the country. They told Daily Independent that Nigeria’s non-oil sector growth potential remains constrained by the acute shortcomings in the country’s utilities and transport sectors, high levels of social instability particularly in the north, unorthodox trade and monetary policies and strained foreign currency availability. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the UN and the World Food Programme (WFP), in a joint report released recently, named Nigeria among the 20 countries likely to witness a deterioration of acute food insecurity over the outlook period from February to May 2022. Based on the findings of the report, conflict/insecurity, displacement, economic shocks, including COVID-19 related measures, and political instability are catalysts identified to support the projected deterioration of food insecurity In its base case estimate, a further deterioration of food insecurity in Nigeria could add 0.6m Nigerians to hunger hotspot to reach 18.0m over the projected period to rank third only behind Democratic Republic of Congo (25.9m people) and Afghanistan (22.8m people). POLL Nigeria’s y/y food inflation rate had remained in double digits since June 2015 (10.1%) with the latest reading for December 2021 printing at 17.4%. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO,Centre For The Promotion Of Private Enterpris(CPPE) and former Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said the inflationary pressures remain a significant macroeconomic risk in the Nigerian economy. “It is a major concern to both businesses and the citizens. Meanwhile, food inflation, which is the biggest worry for the poor, rose from 17.21% in November to 17.37% in December. But on a month-on-month basis, there was an increase of 2.19%. “The core inflation, which relates to non-agricultural products, maintained an upward trend. It increased from 13.85% in November to 13.87% in December. This was largely a reflection of the impact of currency depreciation and the liquidity challenges in the forex market”, he said He recalled that the UN Food & Agriculture Organisation (FAO) monthly Food Price Index (FPI) report for June 2021 recently revealed that average global food prices rose by 5.8 points to 127.1 index points in May 2021 from 121.1 index points in April 2021. NACCIMA Tasks Women On Business Development APEDETT 2022 Investments Conference: We Will Adopt Malaysian,… He urged the Federal Government to reduce import duty on intermediate products and raw materials for industries to reduce production costs, especially in the light of the sharp depreciation in the exchange rate Asiwaju (Dr.) Michael Olawale-Cole, President of the Lagos Chamber Of Commerce And Industry,(LCCI) told Daily Independent that with the worsening security challenges in some parts of the country, production may shrink as its bases remain under siege, and supply chains are disrupted leading to scarcity of goods in the markets. He said: “With worsening security perception about the country, foreign investors are not interested in bringing in FDIs to Nigeria. “We note that in the last quarter of 2021, the economy was confronted with several challenges including subdued business & commercial activities across various sectors (evidenced by PMI data trend); significant FX pressures (evidenced by widening premium between official and parallel market rates); revenue pressure from oil and non-oil sources, inflationary pressures, subdued purchasing power, weak employment levels, worsening internal security situation and weak investor confidence. According to him, the agriculture sector showed some evidence of impacts from heightening insecurity and lingering supply chain disruptions orchestrated by the poor state of our roads. “The sector however, contributed 29.94% to overall GDP in real terms in Q3 2021, higher than 23.78% of overall GDP in real terms recorded in Q2 2021 but lower than the sector’s contribution of 30.77% recorded in Q3 2020. He said: “The need to improve the agricultural value chain, particularly in key commodity products like cocoa, palm oil, and cashew to diversify the country’s export receipts. We join the call on the Central Bank to support manufacturing initiatives that could achieve this objective”. Osifo Festus, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), in chats with Daily Independent said the nation is fast degenerating into a land plagued with hunger He said: “The purchasing power of the already pauperized disposable income of the citizens has greatly degenerated as the costs of food in the market have gone up astronomically in the last three years. “Whereas the astronomically increasing cost of food, wages are at best stagnant and in some cases reduced unilaterally and drastically. This could be attributable to several factors that are not limited to gross devaluation of the Naira against major currencies, displacement of farmers by bandits and terrorist, inconsistent policies of government. “To further exacerbate the looming dangers caused by food insecurity, farmers in states such as Benue, Plateau, Katsina, Nasarawa and Taraba cannot readily access their farmlands due to myriads of security challenges occasioned by incompetence and lack of patriotism. “It is necessary to secure the farmers and their farmlands as aggregate food production by the local farmers is the bedrock on which the systems of our food security rest”. He specifically said: “We strongly advocate that Government must develop a strong mechanism in tracking how its macroeconomic policies, be it fiscal or monetary, affect the disposable income of individuals and households in the country. “The association has noted and sadly so, that most of the recent macro-economic policies of Government has further exacerbated the economic hardship faced by our members and Nigerians in general. If this poverty induced policies are not urgently checked and correctional measures put in place, we could assure you that the little shred of hope that the citizens have in the country will fast erode and this could degenerate the already challenging security situation and grossly affect the level of governance”. An Executive Director of a new generation bank in Nigeria, who craves anonymity, told Daily Independent that Nigeria’s business environment remains fragile, weighed down by uncertainty regarding high inflation, elevated unemployment, foreign exchange shortages, security challenges and social tensions. According to the banker, although businesses have resumed operations, “they are yet to fully recover to pre-pandemic levels as supply chain disruptions continue to crimp operations. Investment activity will suffer amid project delays, low real rates of return and policy uncertainty. “Travel restrictions, capital controls and supply chain disruptions will continue to constrict business activity in the near term, while the country’s foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues will be slow to recover in line with oil price movements and the hydrocarbons production outlook”. He noted that Nigeria’s non-oil sector growth potential remains constrained by the acute shortcomings in the country’s utilities and transport sectors, high levels of social instability particularly in the north, unorthodox trade and monetary policies and strained foreign currency availability. “High criminal activity and risk of recurrent militant attacks on critical infrastructure – particularly in the Niger Delta – threaten the safety of foreign workers, business operations and wider economic stability due to the economy’s fundamental reliance on oil revenues. Meanwhile, corruption and unpredictable border control measures raise costs and legal risks for investors. Limited fiscal space, slow reform momentum and political risks will preclude rapid improvements in the business environment”, the banker said. Afrivest in its weekly report on the ‘Shift in PIA Implementation Timeline… A Necessity or Political Joker? The analysts argued that as the projected period for food insecurity is already at the door step, the Federal Government must leave no stone unturned to save the nations’ economy from collapse. “While we think there might be no quick fix to some of the identified catalysts of the looming crises, we posit that the FG should relax its restriction policy on food importation to prevent escalation of food insecurity amid the ongoing pandemic”, they said.