Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, says the central, east and west senatorial roads under construction are important to the people as they would open up the state and stimulate socio-economic activities when completed. Diri, who stated this shortly after inspecting the progress of work on the Bayelsa West senatorial road from Sagbama to Ekeremor, on Saturday, restated the commitment of his administration to completing the roads despite being federal projects. The governor, in a statement, said that regardless of the economic downturn and the fact that the roads were federal projects, his administration would not be discouraged but will ensure that they were built for the benefit of the people. Egbemo-Angalabiri/Agbidiama Communities Stage Peaceful Protest,… COVID-19: Bayelsa Commences Booster Doses Vaccination He expressed satisfaction with the level of work done on the west senatorial road and was optimistic it would be delivered on schedule. He commended the contractor, Setraco, for completing five bridges between Toru-Orua and Isampou communities and for the ongoing work on the sixth bridge at the entrance into Ekeremor main town. Diri, who was accompanied on the tour by Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere, Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Moses Teibowei, among other government officials, said the state was getting value for money so far spent and gave approval for the construction of another bridge at Ekeremor. He said he is hopeful that on the second anniversary of his administration on February 14, people will be able to drive to Ekeremor main town. On the Bayelsa East road, Diri said efforts were still on to get the Federal Government to be involved in its construction and assured that regardless of the response from the government, his administration would commence the project. POLL He said, “We are trying our best in the face of the downturn in the economy. These senatorial roads are very fundamental to our people. Government is all about the people and we have taken them as our priority. “This Bayelsa West road is one. The second, Bayelsa Central, is also ongoing and doing very well. The road has reached Angiama and I hear the people are very excited. “It is the third one, Bayelsa East, that is the Nembe-Brass road, that we have some challenges. But I believe this year, we will equally start something.” Also speaking, member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Fred Agbedi, lauded Diri for his commitment to the construction of the senatorial roads in the state even though they are federal projects. He remarked that at the appropriate time, members of the National Assembly from the state will initiate moves to ensure that the state government gets a refund for the construction of the roads.