Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh is National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he discusses crucial issues concerning the 2023 presidential election and the choices the Nigerian people have so far. Excerpt: Why do you think several people have been indicating interests to run for presidency in the 2023 election? I think that is the beauty of democracy on display. Each of them thinks he has something to offer. Even those who have nothing think the same line of wanting to offer something good to Nigeria. So, it is up to us the employers to analyse each of them based on their past, present and possibly future. Using past records alone to draw conclusions on an aspirant is destructive. Osinbajo, Tinubu Taking APC By Storm Tinubu Wants The Job Done Better – Olorunrinu Could you assess the presidential contenders that have announced their intentions so far? For our country to stand strong and be great again beyond 2023, we need somebody who is eminently qualified and prepared to take Nigeria out of the current doldrums. Accessing those who have indicated interest so far for the plum job, it is only one man who has an intimidating profile that you can be sure based on his past, present and future (vision). In the past, no leader of our country has a vision, they only claim to have a vision which was a thought of someone else, even amongst those who declared interest to become President in 2023 did you see anyone with a Vision except only this man? All you hear is ‘We will create 50 million jobs’, or a man who has been advocating for a particular section of Nigeria to produce the next President on the grounds of equity, justice, and fairness turning around to seek the same office – you don’t approbate and reprobate at the same time, does it show character? The mistake of the past will never repeat itself again. In the South East now, which of the contenders that have indicated interest so far do you think are more formidable? I don’t understand what you mean by formidable but, going by my definition, formidable in competency, courage, and character – I will give it to Pharm. Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa. He is a politician, though not a regular one. This man has travelled round the 36 states by road and air to consult the citizens and share his vision with them, a sign that if he is given the opportunity to lead come 2023, Office of the Citizens will be exalted. He has visions that are convincing and achievable. He is an industrialist whose past, present and future (vision) will speak for him with his passion for a Nigeria that will work for all irrespective of ethnicity, religion and social standing. This has endeared him to the citizens. I tell you, many who believe in giving voters N1000, which is 68 kobo per day for four years, will be disappointed as Nigerians will be more concerned about values, not money which its source is questionable. You can see Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa going to the nooks and crannies of Nigeria familiarising with his crowd of followers without giving them money which is an indication that the citizens are ready to put our country in the comity of nations as I speak about 10 governors are solidly behind him is not that a big surprise to you that something positive is about to happen in Nigeria? As a man who sees beyond his nose, he will never allow the repeat of what happened to HE. Alex Ekwueme in the Jos convention. Then, it was clear that HE. Alex Ekwueme would emerge as standard bearer of PDP because the West vowed to vote against their own, HE. Olusegun Obasanj and Ekwueme were making waves. You know what happened? His people at the dying minute surrounded him and made him inaccessible to his supporters in the name of ‘Ofu Nne Ofu Nna’ (ethnic solidarity). That was how Ekwueme lost that primary to Obasanjo in Jos. So, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa has gone round the 36 states for at least twice to a state alone, knows that while he traverses the Middle Belt, North, West and South to consult the citizens, there has never been an eruption of violence among the believers of his vision with the locals, without any of his people (ofu nne ofu nna) with him. He cannot make that mistake of surrounding himself with his people to mar his aspiration. Easterners are not going round as a block to consult other regions, but with what Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa has done so far, and he is still doing, he has outweighs his people. One can see that the coast is clear for him and he may win, if only he plays his cards well. Body language of the power brokers is favouring him and I think Nigerian professionals should rise now to join forces with Sam Ohuabunwa to rescue Nigeria. POLL Some Nigerians believes that the South East should produce the president this time. Don’t you think the aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu would destroy the current unity in the Southern part of the country? Not at all. H.E. Bola Ahmed Tinubu has the right to seek the office of the president of Nigeria as much as any other Southerner, but becoming the president is our decision which can make or mar his aspiration. Easterners have shown interest except for one man. I think they (aspirants from the South-East) are waiting for official pronouncement that it has been zoned to them so they can fight one another, forgetting that power is taken not given – a good swimmer is he that swims against the ocean current. Nigerians have been yearning to see more of Easterners aspiring for the presidency, but they are not showing forth. I think this was what gives HE. Bola Ahmed Tinubu and others the right to seek the plum job. Your group seems to be rooting for the candidature of Sam Ohuabunwa of PDP, who is also a chieftain of New Nigerian Group. Why did you decide on Ohuabunwa? Point of correction, my group, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), is yet to come out with a position as we are still studying him or any other aspirants though at the appropriate time AMBYF will make known her position. What you are seeing is exhibition of my personal fundamental right to participate in politics and politicking as such I will speak on that capacity as a person and also the stand of All Middle Belt Youth Forum AMBYF that our region produce the next Vice President come 2023 shouldn’t be misunderstood as it is a done deal base on our electoral value and quality of leadership. Now, to respond to your question about the person of Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa I will say the man eminently qualified to be our President reason is that our country has lost its potential finding herself in this lowest ebbs so for us to come out of this mess you need an Industrialist who will create opportunity, opportunity will create job, job will create wealth, wealth drives away poverty and when poverty is driven away peace is restored, I have read his vision and his intimidating profile and felt he is the type we need today, I also realised none of our leaders both past and present has a vision to make Nigeria great if they do we wouldn’t have been where we are today. As a growing up child I was told Nigeria was a third world nation and till date Nigeria is still a Third World nation with no growth while countries like Singapore, South Korea, India etc have left us to become First World nations. Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa has very tempting, irresistible and achievable visions that will make Nigeria work for all. As a youth who wants the best for his country, it is incumbent on me to support him in this shared vision. Like in Singapore’s Li Qua Jiu. Those who believe in his shared vision rose to change the narrative of their Country, so also we are with Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa to make Nigeria come 2023 the beautiful bride. Twenty Four years of uninterrupted Democracy is not Twenty Four hours so 2023 is very critical as it’s going to be a decision making that will make or mar our dear Country. Look at the money bag politicians, they have been intimidated already with Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa’s political sagacity, how many of them have the physical strength to go round the 36 states of the country, consulting the office of citizens, even the ones who are young among them? Instead they are giving money to their aides and their aides will send their own Aides the trend continues like that. Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa’s Vision is all encompassing that is the reason Nigerian youths across all the regions are endorsing him and working assiduously for his emergence as Standard Bearer of Peoples Democratic Party PDP. Climate Change, Threat To Food Security – Obasi PVCs Issued In 2011 Still Valid – INEC To what extent would you say the Middle Belt stakeholders are getting ready for the 2023 general elections? Our leaders have spoken that power should shift to the South on the ground of equity, justice and fairness and there is no going back on that and our participation will be very active by dealing voter apathy since our very own will be Vice President. Middle Belt was a PDP stronghold in the recent past until some states were taken over by the APC? What direction would you say the region would go in the 2023 elections? Middle Belt still remains the stronghold of PDP, the votes from Southern Kaduna in 2019 general election were more than votes from any PDP governed State in the Country but what happened in 2015 was the failure of PDP leadership then including Presidency to acknowledge and reciprocate that gesture with appointment of the Middle Belt people and thought our people can be used and dump, in fact, some of the APC Governors were those frustrated from PDP and when those troubles started GEJ as leader of the Party was mute and you know in politics it is “if my interest is threatened by you I won’t protect you” our Leaders who worked for President Jonathan were dumped as they never had their own share of the spoils of war and in fact those he could remember, he will call the caliphate and do you think the caliphate will consented to the appointment of a Middle Belter? No! I believe the party will do better than before. To what extent are the Middle Belt stakeholders keying into the demand for the vice presidential position in the 2023 election? The quest for Vice President is not limited. What we are saying is that since for now we cannot produce the president, the position of Vice President is ours as a sign of inclusiveness and merit. Our stakeholders, who were members of the Screening Committee of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1993, demanded the Vice President position. But, MKO Abiola did not grant that request. Our stakeholders are assiduously working on it and we will get it this time by God’s grace based on our electoral values and quality of leadership of the Middle Belt. How is Iyorchia Ayu grappling with the challenges in PDP to ensure that the party wins the 2023 presidential elections and garner more states, including those it lost to APC through defections of governors? Sen. Dr. Iyorchia Ayu’s emergence as PDP National Chairman is the best that has happened to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in recent time. He is an old politician with impeccable character who can instill party discipline. At the moment, the man is concerned with building the party strong, which I believe is the best strategic approach. You see, politicians corrupt party leaders through largesse. Speaking authoritatively with fact, Sen. Ayu does not accept gifts or kola from aspirants. So, if primary election is held today and a winner emerges, PDP under Ayu will enter the poll strong and win, because the results will be termed true reflections of the delegates’ will without interference of the National Chairman and his team. Go to the PDP secretariat in Abuja and see what the National Chairman is doing. He doesn’t keep people is why you can see that the man is set for a strong outing in 2023. The challenge PDP had at a time was that some of the leaders were transactional politicians who were more concerned about trading candidates to make more money and not winning elections. 2023 is for PDP. The party on her own will decide to let go of its victory because APC, as a ruling party, has given the opportunity to PDP to walk into victory.