LAGOS – Chief Olumide Karonwi, Baale of Ayegbe, Ilepa, Ifo Local Gov­ernment of Ogun State, has pe­titioned Prince Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State governor, and CP Lanre Bankole, the state Commissioner of Police, over the alleged forceful entry and arrest of his family members during the Yuletide without a warrant of arrest by opera­tives of the Special Weapons And Tactics Team (SWAT), Ogun State Command located in Magbon, Abeokuta. The Baale who spoke to newsmen on the matter, said, “I was not around when the men came on Tuesday, De­cember 28, 2022 at about 12.30 a.m., but I received a call from my wife who informed me that some people were banging at our door who claimed to be from the CDA, asking that they should open the door at that unholy hour. “I had to quickly call a past chairman of the CDA in the community to ascertain if the people at my gate were truly from the CDA, but he informed me he was not sure about that. I’m Not One Of The Richest Nigerians, Hope To See My Son I n My… Private: Aisha Buhari Facilitates Employment Of… It was my second call to my neighbour that revealed they were policemen. According to him he could see police writ­ten behind the black tops they wore, and could count about five of them.” Chief Karonwi explained further that besides the five policemen identified, other people numbering about eight were with them carrying sticks and guns, who were identified as members of a land grabbing syndicate and Amotekun oper­atives. He said when they could not get access into his house; they broke through the ceiling and forcefully gained entrance to plant guns they later claimed were found there. He continued that all his family members, including his wife, his children, younger brother and his wife were mer­cilessly beaten, wounded and dragged to their base at Mag­bon, Abeokuta. “At Abeokuta, they were tortured and made to write statements under duress in line with their plan to implicate me in order for the land grabbers to have unfettered access to our fa­ther’s land located at Oloparun, Ifo, Ogun State,” he said. POLL Adebisi Karonwi, the Baale’s wife said, “We were manhandled by men of SWAT at their base in Magbon, Abeo­kuta, who came to our house in the company of members of a land grabbing syndicate who have been warning us over our father’s land at Oloparun. I know the men who came to our house very well, because some of them live within our community.” Chief Karonwi therefore called on Prince Dapo Abio­dun, Governor, Ogun State, and Lanre Bankole, Commissioner of Police, Ogun State, to kindly carry out a thorough investi­gation on the case to ascertain the veracity of their claims, because those who accompa­nied the SWAT operatives to his house that early morning were indeed land grabbers who wanted him incarcerated over the Oloparun land. Daily Independent sought the position of the Ogun State Police Command through Abimbola Oyeyemi, Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Ogun State, who promised to in­vestigate the matter to respond to the allegation.