Thanks Fayemi, Adebayo others The standard-bearer of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Ekiti State, Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO) has promised to personally initiate a peace and reconciliation move by meeting with his co-contesters in the just concluded Governorship Primaries held on Thursday. Oyebanji disclosed this in his acceptance speech delivered shortly after he was declared winner, even as the aggrieved aspirants said victory cannot stand. Ukrainian President Downplays Talk Of Russian Invasion 10 Injured In Pittsburgh Bridge Collapse The former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) described his victory as a victory for the people, his party and participatory democracy. He said “I support as we begin the task of campaigning for the Saturday, June 18, 2022 general election. We have a huge mission ahead of us to retain the governance of our dear state under our great party and to ensure the continuity of our progressive programmes and policies as established by our leaders. “To my fellow aspirants, all of you worthy Ekiti sons, I salute your courage of conviction and your passion for the upliftment of our dear State. Your participation in the process has served to strengthen our party, through the mobilisation of many voices. “During contests such as this, tensions are understandably high, and tempers rise in all quarters. This is all normal in the course of democratic expression. I hereby promise my fellow aspirants that together, we will work towards victory and a bright future for our people “I will be reaching out personally to seek an audience with every one of you in the coming days. I want to listen to you so that together we can fit in our respective parts of the big picture and run a  wholesome campaign that connects with the hearts and minds of our people. POLL “According to the popular Yoruba proverb – agbajo owo la fi ns’oya, ajoji owo kan ko gberu d’ori, and the popular maxim – “together, we are greater than the sum of our individual parts” – without a doubt, the undertaking ahead of us must be a collective one, and we need everybody. I therefore humbly ask for your “This decision you have made – to give me the honour of bearing the flag of our party as your gubernatorial candidate is one that I do not take lightly at all. I am truly thankful for this privilege of being chosen from amongst equally qualified aspirants who led very rigorous campaigns across the State. I thank you all my fathers, my mothers, my brothers, and my sisters; from across all the  wards in Ekiti State for this privilege. “I consider this a win for us all, and a win for participatory democracy, especially because all party members were given the opportunity to speak with their votes on account of the modified OpenSecret Ballot System (Option A4), also known as Direct Primaries that was adopted. I submit to the voice of the people, and I submit to the voice of God who rules in the affairs of people – for there is no power but of God, and powers that be are ordained of God. I humbly accept the  confidence you have reposed in me to bear our collective mandate.”Oyebanji  said Jason Momoa In Negotiations To Feature In ‘Fast &… Oil Set For 6th Straight Weekly Gain Amid Tightening Supply “I thank our leaders,  Otunba Niyi Adebayo, CON, Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade,  and Investment, and former Governor of Ekiti State; H.E. Dr Kayode Fayemi, CON, Governor of Ekiti State, and H.E. Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, for their leadership, and for laying a foundation for us to build upon. I also thank H.E. Erelu Bisi Fayemi, First Lady of Ekiti State for her support for our great party, and her tireless contributions towards  the common good of the people of Ekiti State.”