Wife of Edo State Governor, Mrs Betsy Obaseki, has urged Nigerians to join both the federal and state governments in providing amenities for community development. Obaseki made the call at the weekend while inaugurating a school complex built within 84-year-old Central Primary School, Obioma, in Udi Local Council of Enugu State at N100m. Ike Chioke, an illustrious son of Obioma and Group Managing Director of Afrinvest West Africa, built the school complex, equipped it and made provision for re-training of the school’s teachers. Pressure On Nigeria’s Debt Service Expected To Persist In 2022… ‘How FG Can Boost Support For Nigeria’s Competitive… The governor’s wife said it was becoming increasingly difficult for the government alone to provide all the infrastructure needs of various communities; hence the need for individuals and corporate bodies to contribute. Obaseki also reminded wealthy individuals of the need to give back to the society as well as ensure that future leaders are raised to take over from them in the near future. She said; “I must commend Chioke for his love and outstanding investment in his immediate community, notwithstanding his schooling abroad and working in Lagos. “I wish every other blessed Nigerian emulates his shining example of being attuned and of great benefit to their communities and seeking ways to develop their human capital and social amenities.” Ernest Obodo, the Auxiliary Bishop of Enugu Catholic Diocese, lauded Chioke’s philanthropic gesture, adding that he had lifted a burden from the people of Obioma. POLL Chioke said he met the school about six months ago in total dilapidation, wondering how a child could learn anything meaningful in such environment. According to him, the project will greatly improve the learning condition of pupils in Obioma and neighbouring communities, noting that it would serve as a standard model for new primary schools in Enugu. “With the continuous decline in the quality of education and human capital in the country, I decided to deliver learning materials to support pupils and sponsor skill acquisition in my hometown of Obioma. programmes for youths and women “My view about life is that you cannot enlighten people without educating and empowering them to stand on their own; and the most important part of that education starts at the primary level. “Also, equipping kids from primary school would make them compete in all forms of modern learning with pupils in Ikoyi, Lagos and other cities.”