The Nigerian Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transporters Senior Staff Association (NMNOWTSSA), has lamented incessant arrests, harassment and extortions of its members by the operatives of the Nigeria Police under Lagos and Ogun State Commands. Comrade John Aliakwe Okpono, National Secretary of the association, raised the alarm at the weekend when he spoke to journalists at the Union’s headquarters in Apapa, Lagos. He said that this was an aftermath of the raid conducted in 2021 by the Lagos State Police on some illegal Merchant Navy outfits in an operation that led to 100 arrests. Transport Council Laments Extortion Of Truckers Along Port… Shippers’ Council Wants Economic Regulatory Functions Backed By… He, however, cautioned that his union, MNOWTSSA, was set up by the Nigerian Trade Union Act, and that it is an affiliate of Trade Union Congress (TUC), as well as International Transport Federation (ITF, London), as the recognised seafarers body in Nigeria. According to Comrade Okpono, Merchant Navy is a discipline that cannot be proscribed by any law because it is a global discipline. “Our problem now is in Lagos and Ogun State. As an aftermath of the clampdown on some illegal Merchant Navy formations in Lagos, this led to the commissioner of police in Lagos State giving a general statement that the Merchant navy has been banned. “Since then, some police stations have taken advantage of the situation; they are now molesting, harassing and extorting our members” “We appeal to the press to help us inform the public and the police officers because they do not understand what Merchant navy is all about. POLL “It is a discipline that has an international and global outlook. In other discipline, you cannot work abroad without acquiring additional knowledge. But, a seafarer from Nigeria can go to any part of the world and the rank is the same. “The Merchant Navy is a discipline that cannot be proscribed by any law. “More than 90% of World cargo is being transported by the seafarers. “If the world acknowledges this, then I don’t see what Nigeria can do about it,” he said. Comrade Okpono acknowledged that there might be some bad eggs in the Merchant Navy profession; he however argued that this cuts across all professions, including legal, military and even the police itself. Bonny Monarch Tasks Govt On Deep Seaport Development, Others In… NDLEA Reads Riot Act To Drug Smugglers, Traffickers He said that fake personnel are not synonymous to Merchant Navy alone. “We are not in support of any fake personnel or anyone impersonating, we are not saying police should not do their job, but they must do it diligently, they must go an extra mile to find out or investigate where these seafarers work and inspect their identity cards. “Most often we get phone calls from our members that they have been arrested, even yesterday, we heard a phone call from one of us that was apprehended by RRS, and taken straight to the State CID, Panti, Lagos. “We had to write an introduction letter to Panti Division of police and still, the person has not been released,” he lamented. According to him, some of the seafarers were arrested by the police while trying to go onboard vessels. Some of them had to pay heavily to the Police before they were eventually released. As part of measures to stem the ugly tide, Comrade Okpono assured that the union and its President, Comrade Bob Yousuo would be seeking audience with the Inspector General of Police in order to educate his officers on the importance of Merchant Navy profession and its personnel.