IBADAN – The succession pattern to the throne of the Olubadan of Ibadan is unique and honourable, hence, should by no means be tampered in order to avert problem, the Jagunmolu Agbekoya of Yorubaland, Prince Kunle Adelakun Eruobodo, has stated. Adelakun spoke in a letter dated Friday, January 7 and titled, ‘Re – Olubadan stool,’ addressed to the former Oyo State Governor, High Chief Rashid Ladoja, who is also the Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland. Warning on the hazard of fanning the ember of discord on ascension to the exalted seat, Adelakun wrote,“I commiserate with you and all the member of Olubadan-in-Council on the demise of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji. We are all aware of the imbroglio that erupted concerning ascension to the throne of Olubadan. Ladoja, Adegoke, Folarin, Others Grace 8th Day Prayer For Late… Soun’s First Child Dies At 71, 29 Days After Father’s Death “Your Excellency, Ibadan had enjoyed a unique ascension system without any brawl or dispute. Kudos to the Ibadan founding fathers whose foresight were tailored to avoid what is being publicly displayed at this moment and during Senator Abiola Ajimobi’s reign as governor of Oyo State.” The letter, which was copied to the Olubadan-in-Council further read that “Though our forefathers were not so educated like most of you – the present high chiefs – they were equipped with native intelligence. “Our forefathers considered the republican system in Ibadan as most of them were warriors who believed in power, hence, the foundation for the Olubadan hierarchical structure.” Recalling that those who tried to disrupt the foundation of the Olubadan hierarchy system in the past paid dearly for their actions and inactions, he wrote, “The pillar of Ibadan chieftaincy foundation must not be tampered with by whosoever, whether the rich or the most powerful. “You have done well by challenging Senator Abiola Ajimobi’s untraditional manner. History would not forget you on this. Things that make Ibadan unique are the Olubadan hierarchical structure; the way of resolving problems without external intervention; and the sense that ‘Ibadan mesi ogo’ conveys. POLL “In 1983 before the general election Ibadan, the people were brought together under one roof and unanimously passed a resolution to fight a common enemy. The action paved the way for an Ibadan indigene to become governor in the history of our political culture. Our fathers displayed competence and bravery. We are warriors and we must be united in any situation. “Every genuine Ibadan indigene must desist from allowing lawyers to cause distortion that could damage the solid foundation of a revered Olubadan chieftaincy hierarchy. We should caution from listening to greedy attorneys whose aim is to enrich their pockets or interests.”