LAGOS – As part of activities to com­memorate the 2022 World Cervical Day, a coalition of partners from government, industry and civil society groups have called for mas­sive awareness on the dis­eases just as they target to reach 10 million Nigerians. With over 12, 075 cervi­cal cancer cases and 7,968 deaths recorded annually in Nigeria, the coalition has signed up to scale and sustain the impact of the public sensitisation on cer­vical cancer. The multi-sectoral col­laboration is in response to the call by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for an intensified global effort to “Eliminate Cervical Can­cer.” Buhari Inaugurates NNPC Board, Outlines Guidelines For… NIA DG Never Failed Promotion Examination – ONSA Meanwhile, the George Kerry Life Foundation in collaboration with Beacon Premium Solutions Limit­ed, communications Part­ner has flagged off the 2022 public sensitisation and medical outreach. The event which was held through a virtual press briefing to mobilise public awareness with the theme: “War Cry: Last Mile Cam­paign on Cervical Cancer”, is designed as multi-sec­toral advocacy and medi­cal outreach which targets 10 million people with key messaging on basic health­care tips for early detection, prevention and treatment of the disease within the demographic segment of vulnerable women. Dr. Matilder Kerry Os­ezuwa, Executive Direc­tor of George Kerry Life Foundation and convener of the medical outreach, described the disease as the second most prevalent cancer among women with higher prospects of preven­tion and treatment. She outlined the basic prevention tips to include early vaccination, screen­ing, and pre-cancer treat­ment. She said women within child-bearing age and sex­ually active girls are the vulnerable demographic segment of the women pop­ulace to this disease. POLL “It is instructive for these vulnerable groups of women must undergo screening once in two to three years.” Osezuwa highlighted public sensitisation and en­lightenment by NGOs and various health care institu­tions as key in minimising the incident across sub-Sa­haran Africa and Nigeria in particular. According to her, WHO seeks to mobilise concerted interventions globally with a sense of urgency to elimi­nate cervical cancer. On his part, Mr. Emeka Mba, Chief Executive Offi­cer, Beacon Premium Solu­tions, Communications Partner, elaborated on the over-arching theme of the campaign which targets over 10 million Nigerians. Mba said this would be achieved through key messaging and WHO-rec­ommended preventive health care tips which will be disseminated through sustained month-long ra­dio jingles, rendered in the various ethnic languages in order to reach women at the grassroots. Nasarawa Govt. Earmarks N2.23b For Electrification Of Rural… Suspected Smugglers Attack Customs Officers Along Sokoto/Illela… ”It is gratifying to note that the media, as the criti­cal agenda-setter in promot­ing viable communities, has signed up to support the campaign. “We are working with major Radio stations with national coverage to take these life-saving preven­tive health care tips to the women at the base of the pyramid. This is the last Mile centric nature of the campaign,” he added. On the multi-sectoral collaboration for this year’s event, Mba said, the part­nership will play a catalytic role in scaling the impact of the month-long public sensitisation and medical outreach. “We invite individuals and corporate organisations that are focused on health and wellbeing, the third pil­lar of the SDG agenda and wellbeing of girl child and women to support either in-kind or financial support to facilitate access to free treatment and screening for women from under-re­sourced communities who may be constrained by funds,” Mba stressed.