Real Madrid lifted the first piece of silverware on offer to them this season after beating Athletic Club 2-0 in the Supercopa de Espana final. Luka Modric put his side in front in the first-half, before Karim Benzema doubled the advantage after the break from the penalty spot with his 24th goal of the season. Eder Militao was sent-off late on for a handball, but Thibaut Courtois saved Raul Garcia’s penalty to put an end to Athletic’s hopes of mounting a late comeback. Rafa Benitez Breaks Silence After Everton Sacking Chelsea Join Arsenal, Tottenham In Ivan Perisic Chase It’s the first trophy for Real since Carlo Ancelotti returned to the club in the summer, and there could be more to come this season for La Liga’s leaders. Real controlled possession from the start but did not create a huge amount in terms of chances, with Benzema’s whipped effort as close as they came in the early stages. Casemiro had a shot from a tight angle saved at the near post, before his header from the result corner was tipped over by Unai Simon. Modric produced the first real bit of quality after 38 minutes to put his side in front. Rodrygo was direct as he ran straight at the Athletic defence before laying the ball off to Modric on the edge of the box, who sent a lovely curling effort into the corner of the net. Oihan Sancet went close for Athletic in first-half stoppage time, but the holders deservedly went into the break behind after a poor 45 minutes. POLL The task became an even more difficult one seven minutes into the second-half. Benzema’s scuffed effort flicked up and hit the hand of Yeray Alvarez as he slid in to block, though play continued as there were hardly any appeals for a penalty. However, VAR told the referee to review his decision, and eventually he pointed to the spot. Benzema stepped up and although Simon went the right way, the Frenchman’s effort had far too much power on it as it flew past the goalkeeper. Raul Garcia was introduced and twice went close for Athletic, and it was his header with three minutes remaining that struck the arm of Militao a couple of yards out. The referee once again went over to the monitor, and returned to point to the spot and show Militao the red card. Garcia stepped up and blasted it down the middle, but Courtois stuck out a leg to save the penalty and end Athletic’s hopes.