UYO – Reactions have continued to trail Governor Udom Emmanuel’s Sunday afternoon announcement of his Commissioner for Lands, Mr. Umo Eno as successor. Among those who have reacted to the governor’s choice include members of the Peoples Democratic Party, gubernatorial aspirants, those in the academic sector and others in the state. Reacting from the academic sector, an Associate Professor in the Department of Communication Arts, University of Uyo, Dr. Herbert Batta in his reaction to a Facebook post by Mr. Aniefiok Macauley, one of Governor Emmanuel’s Aides said: “Did they pray for the Paramount Ruler to handpick a successor? Or did they pray for him to provide guidance and a level playing field for the best homegrown politician to emerge? “This handpicked one was reportedly awarded a contract, before his appointment as commissioner, to rework Idua road in Eket, a town he lives in, has his businesses and church; but he messed up the road, made it worse, and abandoned it! Did the govt fail to fund the contract? “Did the govt reward him with an appointment? Does the govt want him to succeed? Or does the govt want the party and people to do with it what they did with Obong Attah over his son-in-law? Recall, that’s how Akpabio emerged though Akpabio imposed his successor: Udom, will Udom be successful? On his part, the immediate past National Legal Adviser of the PDP, Barr. Emmanuel Enoidem, and National Chairman of Maintain Peace Movement (MPM), a group created by the state government, said the choice of Umo Eno is a dream come true for the organisation. Enoidem described Eno as the most qualified person for the position of Governor, adding that with his pedigree and antecedents as a renowned entrepreneur, he understands the plight of the Akwa Ibom people. POLL “We all know that Udom Emmanuel was not the most popular politician in 2015 when he was brought to us by God to contest for the position but he got the acceptability of the people and finally emerged the Governor of the state in 2015 and 2019. “So, it is the grace of God and His will also that Umo Eno should succeed Udom Emmanuel and we stand by that,” he stated. Also speaking, State Chairman, Civil Society Organisations, Mr. Harry Udoh said the choice of Eno as Gov. Emmanuel’s successor does not automatically make him the people’s choice as both the party and gubernatorial elections would determine that. “That’s the governor’s choice and it is within the governor’s remit to support whoever he wants and that’s not the choice of Akwa Ibom people. There’s still the primary election to be won and there’s still the general election to be won. “Anybody can choose anybody, it is left for the people to decide. I think that’s what democracy is all about. The governor can go ahead and dream the dreams he wants and see visions he wants but that is not the dream and vision of the people. The people have to decide at the end who should be governor. We can’t argue with the governor. “Things are changing, society is evolving the way, we used to do elections in time past is no longer like that, elections are different today, people are more conscious, there is a heightened interest in what is happening in the polity. There used to be an imposition but now I see a strong battle for that position..Even in the time past there were upheavals. “The governor is not saying I chose this one based on his antecedent or what he can do but based on what God told him, in this 21st century? That is the fallacy to ‘appeal to authority,’ that is just reducing God to a politician. I don’t have any problem with the Umo Eno but the governor’s posturing is unpalatable,” he noted. A chieftain of African Democratic Congress in the state, Arch. Ezekiel Nya-Etok in his own reaction said, that “the Governor had the choice to stay neutral or to have a preferred. He has made his choice, and it is his fundamental right so to do. You also have you choice: to align or to meet them on the field. Just as much as you should respect the right of the Governor, he also must respect your right to agree to disagree with him.” On his part, one of the gubernatorial aspirants and Governor Udom Emmanuel’s personal friend, Mr Akan Udofia said;  “I heard it just as you heard so. I don’t have any comment.  How can I subscribe to what I don’t know about?. The endorsement maybe the governor’s initiative, so I don’t have any comment.” Asked whether the endorsement wouldn’t affect his aspiration, Udofia replied: “How would it affect my aspiration. My aspiration is my aspiration. I have time for side issues. My aspiration is for the people.if Akwa Ibom State. I have not heard any statement from the governor so I’m not aware. The governor is my friend.