EKITI – Nigerian youths have been urged to take advantage of their voting strength to launch themselves to reckoning in the 2023 General Elections. Comrade Tosin Adesuyi.,the chairman, Nigerian Youth Congress(NYC),Ekiti State chapter gave this admonition in a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti . He charged youths in the country to wake up from their slumber in 2022 and face the 2023 elections by deploying their demographic strength and launching themselves to relevance. Akume’s Birthday: APC Officials At Daggers Drawn Over… Saraki Not Your Problem, Deliver Your Promises To Kwara People,… NYC boss called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to restructure the Ministry of Youth and bring in capable hands to man the post as a good strategy to develop the population, saying the youth policy of the present government has allegedly failed to provide succour for his colleagues. “Youth development means transformation and much more to us than the cosmetics and window dressing affairs we have been engaged in for a long time in this state. It is beyond having only football competitions to show as the achievement in the area of youth development in the last three years.” The youth leader lamented the alleged deliberate undermining of youths influence in governance, adding that Nigerian youths were being incapacitated through unemployment and lack of commitment to tackle insecurity that have affected their farming businesses and education, with cases of bombings, kidnappings and killings now being perpetrated in schools. He said, “Our sincere appeal to Ekiti State government is to make youth development a priority on its policy thrust, by overhauling the agencies in charge of youth development to bring about youth-inclined policies in Ekiti. “The government is informed that the well-meaning youths have exhausted their patience about cases of fake promises, deceits, blackmail, and lip service to citizens’ well-being. Failure to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the well-meaning youths in this state will be resisted by all means possible”. POLL “We have witnessed the incapacitation of our youth, so that they will be unable to take over their affairs. Also, the high rate of unemployment and underfunding of our tertiary institutions have caused hunger, scarcity, lack and hike in prices of commodities, which in no doubt negatively affects the standard of living of those who have little or no financial means to cope. “Different from the soured relationship between the government and the youth population, we cannot forget so quickly how some of us, our brothers, sisters and parents lost their jobs at EKSU and EKSUTH. Many of them are now roaming the streets. “The greatest blow is the state of insecurity confronting some of us youth farmers who have now retired from farming to menial jobs as means of survival after their lifetime investments were invaded and destroyed by herdsmen. “Whereas, the government at all levels preaches diversification from oil-based economy to agriculture, but botched the diversification policy, by not paying attention or giving adequate measures to curb the insecurity, so that our colleagues can return to farming”.Adesuyi said.