Sir Temple Ogueri Onyeukwu, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Accountant (FCA), is a leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State. He is also a political analyst, social crusader, and philanthropist. He is National Leader, Turning Point Youth Empowerment Initiative, and former candidate, Mbaitoli/ Ikeduru Federal Constituency. He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial national issues. Excerpt: President Muhamadu Buhari recently withheld his assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021. How do you see the development? I think the president’s action was because of the provision on the direct primaries. Whether you have direct or indirect primaries, the issue is with political parties and the operators of those parties: you and I. As long as we have not changed our orientation, no matter the option chosen by any party, it is still subject to manipulations by the money bags in the political parties and political space. There have been situations where businessmen donate money to political parties and their candidates during elections. They donate to the big parties to ensure that any of them that wins, will do business with them. We are good at breaking the law. However, the president, having promised to bequeath a free, fair, credible and transparent election to Nigerians and the National Assembly having passed the bill, should have assented to it. Now that he has withheld assent, blame will now be heaped on his doorstep, if the elections in 2023 are short of transparent, credible, free and fair. It is my candid opinion that the major problem is our inability to limit the number of political parties to a maximum of five and a minimum of two. This issue of having many political parties is not helping the growth and development of our democratic system. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket The government has indicated interest to remove petroleum subsidies in 2022. What is your reaction to this? The president in the past has been minister of petroleum. He has been a Head of State. He was the chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) under the late Head of State, General Sanni Abacha. Now, he has been Minister of Petroleum Resources since he assumed office as the president and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces in 2015. He has always been in a position to influence. He has been involved in the appropriate prizing of fuel and the development of the petroleum sector. He promised Nigerians to build more refineries and rehabilitate the existing ones in Kaduna, Port Harcourt, etc. Those promises have been fulfilled in the breach. Removal of subsidy on petroleum, particularly fuel, is the most socially destabilising, but the best economic policy this government must take for the economic survival of this country. The cabal involved in importation of fuel, round tripping, smuggling, over invoicing and corruption in this industry seem to have demystified President Buhari. Without the removal of subsidy, none of the refineries will work and no new ones will come on stream since the same cabal will frustrate this effort. Buhari, the no-nonsense, incorruptible soldier has been demystified by the politicians and the fantastically corrupt petroleum subsidy cabal, who are said to stay in their palacious mansions in choice areas of the country and raise invoices, get them pushed through the system, get paid without adding value to the system. This system has been so entrenched that it runs through the entire industry. It is conspiracy at its best. Even the agencies that are supposed to be the watchdogs are said to be deeply involved. The way out is the removal of subsidies on fuel. This will cause a lot of social dislocation. However, a time comes when a particular group of citizens will have to pay the price for the future economic growth and development of the country. That time is now. The question of youth unemployment in the country is disturbing. Where do Nigerians go from here? One of the manifestations of youth unemployment in this country is the #EndSARS protest of October 2020. The impact of that protest has not fully settled. Presently, there are about 200 universities graduating youths every year. The polytechnics and the colleges of education are more in number. The empowerment of the youths by the various governments and agencies advertised in television, radios and the print media can best be described as a scam. Expectedly, youth empowerment must be aimed at making the person self-employable. The MSME all over the world constitute the engine of massive economic growth and development. Where the fundamentals that can aid the sustainability of this group of industries are lacking, then the foundation is faulty. The current state of affairs in this country cannot guarantee the establishment, nurturing, growth and development of MSME. The economy is choking everybody. Even the few remaining multinationals are relocating to somewhere else and use this country as a market. Youth empowerment must involve skill acquisition and appropriate orientation for the youth to be self-employed. Youth Empowerment is the guarantee for a sustainable greater tomorrow. We can only neglect this to the peril of the nation and future generation as youth unemployment, officially put at 33.3% by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), is a ticking time bomb. Unofficially, this figure may be up to 45% or more. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the IPOB leader, is still in DSS detention after he was abducted from Kenya and smuggled into Nigeria. What is your take on his separatist agitation? POLL When Buhari staged a coup that ousted Shagari, the then transport minister, Umaru Diko, flew to London. The government pursued him to London, put him in a diplomatic crate and was about to fly the crate to Nigeria before mother luck struck on Umaru Dikko and he was rescued at the London Airport. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was not as lucky as Umaru Diko. One wonders if Kanu could be abducted from Kenya and brought back to Nigeria, why couldn’t we deploy similar strategies in neutralising the Boko Haram insurgency, the bandits and the kidnappers? Nnamdi Kanu’s agitation is essentially for truth, justice, equity, fairness and even development of the country. Despite the fact that the North has been at the helm of affairs in this country for almost 46 years, yet the Arewa youths are crying marginalisation. Despite the fact that the South West has been president/Head of State of this country for almost 12 years, the South West is still crying marginalisation and still wants to be president in 2023. Despite the fact that the South South is the cash cow of this country, development is still far between and cannot be compared with the regions that milk the cow and determine who gets what and what goes where. Nnamdi Kanu’s agitation is essentially for the proper restructuring of this geographical expression called Nigerian to enable political zones to develop at their pace without stifling any group. His agitation is a clarion call for live and let live. His agitation is that all animals are equal and no animal is more equal than others. His agitation has the potential to ignite political, social and economic growth for this country. When you remove the word Biafra and replace it with truth, justice, equity and fairness to all, one will be able to know that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is a patriot. Patriots demand for undiluted truth, justice, equity and fairness to all. Justice is the guarantee for peace, the government is encouraged to study the man, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, and his legal crusade. Only patriots demand for truth, justice, equity and fairness to all. Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is more patriotic than most of our current political leaders. Insecurity in Imo State has been on the rise. Can anything be done to contain it? The situation in Imo State seems to have come under control. Initially, the insecurity was said to have been instigated by politicians. The government appears to have also mismanaged the problem by inviting the military to quell the riotous youths. The military is not trained to speak too much English. They are trained to kill. Once the military is invited into such a situation, it is to neutralise both real and perceived opponents. Bullets don’t pick and choose. Once the bullet leaves the muzzles of the rifle, what follows are casualties. All parties involved in the escalation of the insecurity in Imo State and in fact the entire South East must have a rethink. The Igbo man is not violent. He fears God and does not shed blood, except in extreme circumstances where maybe he will pay the ultimate prize. We have no other home than Imo State and will not fold our hands and allow it to be destroyed. Could you assess the present government of Hope Uzodimma in Imo State? Governor Hope Uzodimma became governor under very unique, divine and unprecedented circumstances. Over the years, Imo State in my view, has become the most retrogressively developing state in the South East. Aside Government House, Wetheral Road, Bank Road, Douglas Road and Port Harcourt Road, there seems to be no other motorable roads in the state. None of the local governments within the Owerri Capital Development Authority can boast of a four kilometre tarred road. Is it Mbaitoli, Ikeduru, Ngo Okpala? The government must pay less attention to the opposition and concentrate on the act of governance. Some criticisms are healthy for the government. It is not every criticism that is bad. When the opposition says something that is correct and factual, the advisers of the governor must ensure corrections are taken. What will matter in the next election is not Rochas or Ihedioha. It is what real lasting and quality projects the administration has built during its first four years. The essence of governance is not a blame game. It is for the security and welfare of the citizens. Once the government can guarantee Imo State security, good roads, power, industrialisation will blossom. History beckons on Distinguished Senator Hope Uzodimma to make a difference and prove those wrong who insinuate that this government is a government of guy men. Allowing Terrorists Mount Roadblocks Amount To Having Two… Sports Minister Mourns Olubadan’s Passing As Nigerians enter into 2022 beckons, how would you see the new year? If President Buhari will be politically courageous enough to remove petroleum subsidy, expectedly, there will be protests by all groups of people. If the protests are properly managed, normalcy will return in a matter of weeks and dialogue will ensue on the palliatives to cushion the after effect of the removal. The resuscitation of the existing refineries and the coming on stream of more refineries will eventually create more jobs for the teeming youths and ensure appropriate prizing of PMS. Every ship load of PMS, diesel or kerosene imported is regrettably thousands of jobs outsourced by this country. The patience of ASUU will run out. Government must put machinery in motion to grant universities full autonomy. Universities must charge appropriate fees from the students, especially those going into year one and henceforth to be able to raise funds to operate. Government is choking under the burden of dwindling revenue and escalating expenses. The political space will be very tense. Many politicians will attempt to truncate the coming 2023 elections because they prefer the status quo. Economic strangulation of Nigerians will worsen and the absolute poor will increase geometrically. Hunger and malaria will kill more people than Coronavirus. Many businesses will close. The naira will continue to lose value against major world currencies. There will be a hike in electricity tariff. Terrorists will intensify their efforts to occupy other people’s ancestral lands. I do not envy the government coming in 2023 because the challenges will be overwhelming and deeply entrenched. Insecurity will worsen unless there is effective state policing. State police is a prerequisite to minimising and containing terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, Boko Haram insurgency and criminality of all arts. The South East political zone will be worse hit as a result of the lack of trust among the governors and the desperation of some governors to be in the good books of Abuja to the detriment of their states. PDP will choose a northerner as the presidential candidate. This will affect the fortunes of the party in the South East and polarise the governors more. APGA, with good, transparent and sacrificial leadership, will win more states and seats than it presently has. It appears this is the most opportune time for the South East to take their destiny in their hands by concentrating their political efforts to essentially command some political strength to negotiate power in the future.