LAGOS – From commodities to supplies, construction to interior decor and a couple of other ventures, Aisha Gambo, Managing Director of Conceiving Framazaz Resources, has been able to build a sustainable and rooted business for herself. Speaking on the excellent service her business offers, she stated, “I believe the customer service we give our customers is what makes our business exceptional. We have a fleet of busses that goes the extra mile to deliver products to our customers at the different markets they sell from at no additional cost to them. “Our customers require products at the most competitive rates and as efficient as possible so I make sure we fill that gap by keeping a strong inventory of products in our warehouse. Last Year Was Difficult For Entrepreneurs – Iche My Brand Is Adding Value To Nigeria’s Economy – Olumide “By hard work and God’s grace, we have been growing and increasing our customer base over the past seven years and because of this we need more space to store our products. I intend to build additional warehouses at different locations to increase our storage capacity to enable us serve our growing customer base better.” Speaking on how businesses could break even she shared that, “People always say capital is the problem, but I think it is the knowledge of the business that is often the problem. “I advise entrepreneurs that before they start a business they should study it, look for someone in the business and shadow them, learn the business very well then you can approach people who you think can invest their knowledge in the business. “I always believe to start up your business with whatever small money you have. And also do not go into an investment without actually having a strong understanding of the business because when you do that you are not setting yourself up to succeed.” Gambo is an industrious woman, who has been able to build a span of businesses to her credit in about two decades of relentless hard work and dedication. Conceiving Framazaz Resources in 2005, she has been able to drive the company to a reputable status filled with admiration and excellence. POLL Framazaz currently is a large-scale distributor of staple foods manufactured by Flour Mills Nigeria (Golden Penny), which includes food products such as edible oils, pastas (spaghetti, macaroni, noodles), semovita, garri, margarine and others. Overcoming the challenges in business she shared that, “The challenges I faced earlier I don’t think are peculiar to me because as a business person in Nigeria, we know the environment is tough because of the infrastructure issues in the country and also the fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, which cause our product prices to continually increase.”