The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested three transborder drug traffickers who were trying to smuggle 48,000 tablets of 225mg Tramadol through Mubi in Adamawa to the Cameroon Republic. Similarly, more than 1,200 packs of imported Loud weighing 1,500 kilograms were intercepted in raids across Lagos and Edo. The suspected traffickers – Mohammed Hussaini (32), Adamu Bella (18) and Mohammed Umar (18) – were arrested at Tsamiya Junction, Madanya Road in Mubi on Friday. Allow Peace To Reign In Bauchi, Mohammed Tells Opposition… APC Drifting, Exposing Damaged Profile – Lukman Warns… NDLEA spokesman, Femi Babafemi, announced the bust in a statement on Sunday. The trio claimed the drugs were being taken to Bagira town along the Nigeria-Cameroon border to be delivered to some Cameroonians. In another raid at Suru Alaba, Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA of Lagos, operatives arrested Ibrahim Musa (25) with 18,530 tablets of Tramadol, Rohynol, Diazepam, Exol-5, and 138 bottles of Codeine. At the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos, SAHCO operatives intercepted a consignment of 22 international passports of six countries concealed in a bag of Garri and other food items. Nine of the passports were of the United Kingdom, France and Portugal (3 each); the rest were of Nigeria – 8; Ghana – 4 and Cameroon – 1. POLL Also seized were 12 parcels of cannabis weighing 4.95kg concealed in a carton of Golden Morn packaged for export. In Plateau, NDLEA officers on Friday arrested Emeka Ezenwa (37) and Julius Akingbe (45), coming from Lagos, for the possession of 126.5grams of methamphetamine concealed inside a DVD player. However, a raid in Kampani Zera- Wase LGA of the state on Friday led to the arrest of Fatima Sadiq, 20, who was caught with 21.3kg cannabis. Furthermore, an operation at a notorious joint, Bakin Kogi Ringim, Jigawa, led to the recovery of quantities of Cannabis, Diazepam, Exol-5 and some new psychoactive substances with a total weight of 8.680kg. Weapons such as knives, cutlasses, Gora sticks, catapults and charms were recovered. Watch out Guys, Timaya Warns Nigerians To Be Wary Of Friends Ooni Ogunwusi Places Ile-Ife Under Lockdown In Edo, operatives found 19 bags of cannabis weighing 144.10kg stored in a bush along Uromi Road, Esan North East LGA, to be transported to other parts of Nigeria. Eight bags of the same substance weighing 111kg were also discovered at a bush in Iruekpen, Esan West LGA. NDLEA Chairman, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) has commended officers and men of Lagos, MMIA, Adamawa, Plateau and Edo commands for their tenacity and vigilance.