Harry Winks appears to be rediscovering his form under new Tottenham boss Antonio Conte, despite past critics. Winks has made 14 appearances for Spurs so far this season and is battling with the likes of Pierre Emile Hojbjerg and Oliver Skipp for a place in the middle of the field. The 25-year-old struggled for game time under Nuno Espirito Santo and it started to look as if his time may be up in N17, but the midfielder has clearly impressed the Italian and is now getting more opportunities to play. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Emir Of Borgu Inaugurates Committee On Gani Durbar Festival Winks has been criticised in the past for his sideways passing and situations where he loses the ball in dangerous areas, but those problems seem to be a less regular occurrence, recently. Last season under Jose Mourinho, the Hertfordshire-born player made 15 league appearances for the Lilywhites and found himself in and out of the matchday squad. Winks did get more minutes as the season went on and in January 2021, Mourinho explained whether this was because the midfielder had done anything differently. “Nothing has changed. Good Player,” the former Spurs boss said. “A player that I like, a player that I need, a player that the squad needs.” Speaking whilst the transfer window was open last year, Mourinho also addressed the 25-year-old’s transfer status. POLL “A player with a contract for a few years. A player we don’t want to sell, a player we don’t want to loan. So if somebody is working on that they are losing time,” the 58-year-old admitted. At the start of this season under Espirito Santo, Winks yet again struggled for game time and missed out on the matchday squad three times. A couple of months into the season, the midfielder made an honest admission about his lack of opportunity on the pitch. “Listen, I love Tottenham, I’ve always made that clear, but I want to play football. And I want to play regular football,” Winks admitted. “The only way to play your best football, get momentum is when you’re playing regularly. I’m giving my all for the club, of course I am. They stuck by me, I stuck by them – and I want to play for Tottenham.” Winks’ critics in the past have been fans and even former Spurs players as Graham Roberts explained what level he believed the academy graduate was at. Ekiti: I’m Still Confident Of APC Guber Ticket, Says…  “He’s gone Mr Conservative, he plays simple, and if I don’t give the ball away, I’m a great player,” Roberts said in June 2021. “You’re not, he’s become an average player, and that’s being fair.” However, a new manager in N17 also means another chance for Winks and so far, he isn’t wasting this opportunity. Since the arrival of Conte, the midfielder has featured in all Premier League matchday squads and whether he has played 90 minutes or come on for 20, he has tried to up the tempo. This led to praise from the Italian, ahead of Spurs’ 1-0 victory over Watford on New Year’s Day. “Winksy is playing well and Winks has shown to be a reliable player,” the 52-year-old admitted. “And for this reason, Winksy will stay here. “I find players that are reliable, and then I can count on them and Winksy showed me that I can count on him.” The words of both Conte and Mourinho show that the midfielder is a valued member of the Tottenham squad, which is likely to be one reason he hasn’t been moved on. Winks has displayed some decent performances in recent games, playing some nice forward balls and increasing the energy on the field. Statistically in the league, the midfielder has produced 11 accurate long balls, made nine interceptions and 25 recoveries, indicating the work he does on the pitch. Winks himself has admitted that he wants to be playing regular football and with a busy fixture schedule ahead for the Lilywhites, the Italian will have to make some rotations in his starting XI, which is likely to create more opportunities for the ‘reliable’ 25-year-old.