Rolls-Royce Motor Cars delivered 5,586 vehicles to clients around the world between January and December 2021, thereby upping it by 49 per cent when compared with same period in 2020. Rolls-Royce in a statement, recently, described the figure as the highest-ever annual sales results in the marque’s 117-year history, adding that it includes all-time record sales in most regions, including Greater China, the Americas and Asia-Pacific, and in multiple countries across the globe. According to the company, all Rolls-Royce models performed extremely strongly. Passage Of 2020 Finance Act Shutdown Auto Industry In Nigeria In… Fixit45, CFAO Motors Partner On Auto Spare Parts Buying “Growth has been driven principally by Ghost, with demand surging further, following the launch of Black Badge Ghost in October 2021. “This, together with the continuing pre-eminence of Cullinan and the marque’s pinnacle product, Phantom, has ensured order books are full well into the third quarter of 2022. The company’s Provenance (pre-owned) programme also enjoyed exceptional sales results in 2021, achieving an all-time record,” the company said. Commenting on the performance, Torsten Müller-Ötvös, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, described the past year as a phenomenal year for the company. He reiterated that the company delivered more cars than at any time in the marque’s 117- year history with unprecedented demand for all products in every global market. He added: “Our extremely strong product portfolio, an exceptional Bespoke offering, together with the first full year of availability of Ghost, the launch of Black Badge Ghost in October and the continuing record demand for Bespoke personalisation, has contributed meaningfully to our extremely strong performance. POLL “This is hugely encouraging as we prepare for the historic launch of Spectre, our first all-electric car. Building on this year’s success, we will continue to evolve as a true luxury brand, beyond the realms of automotive manufacturing.” According to the statement, bespoke commissions remain at record levels, with magnificent individual examples including the spectacular Phantom Oribe co-created with Hermès, alongside the Phantom Tempus, and Black Badge Wraith and Black Badge Dawn LandspeedCollection cars. The company signalled its commitment to leading a new contemporary coachbuilding movement with Rolls‑Royce Coachbuild becoming a permanent fixture in its future portfolio, and with it the unveiling of its latest coach built masterpiece, Boat Tail. Part of the statement read: “Rolls-Royce also announced its first all-electric car, Spectre, during 2021. The extraordinary undertaking of bringing Spectre to market by the fourth quarter of 2023 has now begun, and the most punishing testing protocol ever conceived for a Rolls‑Royce is underway. This 2.5‑million-kilometre journey, which extends to all four corners of the world, will simulate more than 400 years of use for a Rolls‑Royce. Hyundai, Kia Forecast 12% Sales Rise In 2022 Despite Chip… Tesla To Halt Games On Infotainment Screens In Moving Cars “While preparations are made for the marque’s all-electric future, Rolls-Royce continues to meet the surge in demand for its current portfolio through a flexible manufacturing process and the dedication of the over 2,000 people who work at the Home of Rolls-Royce in Goodwood, West Sussex and around the world. The Rolls-Royce factory at Goodwood is currently running at near-maximum capacity, on a two-shift pattern to fulfil orders from clients around the world. “Rolls-Royce will continue to invest in its manufacturing plant in readiness for electrification, and in future talent, with a record 37 new apprentices set to join the company in September 2022”.