Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has alleged grand plots by certain forces within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to launch negative media campaigns against his person and position, even as he insisted that he had not told anyone about his interest in the presidency. Governor Fayemi, in a statement made available to journalists by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, alleged that “the plot  is to use some faceless political groups and political jobbers from different parts of the country to defame the Ekiti State Governor.” Fayemi specifically said ” the plan is to use the faceless groups to discredit Governor Fayemi and portray him as unacceptable to the generality of the people across the six geo-political zones of the country. This plot is part of their game plan for the 2023 presidential contest.” 2023 Presidential Race: No Preferred Candidate, Says Buhari 2023: APC’s Enemies Rooting For Jonathan As Party… The statement read: “The Nigerian Constitution states clearly the qualifications for the position of the President of the country. Every qualified adult has the right to aspire to the number one position. Therefore, we do not believe it is proper, decent or strategic for any aspirant to think his campaign can only gather momentum when he destroys the reputation of a fellow citizen who is perceived as a possible opponent. “The general public is hereby alerted of a fresh plot by some political interests to activate a spate of negative media campaigns against the person of Dr Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). “For the avoidance of doubt, Dr Fayemi has not told anyone that he is in the race for the Presidency of Nigeria. He has always maintained that he is on duty in Ekiti and would like to concentrate on that assignment. What he does Afterwards is in the hands of God and he will cross that bridge at the appropriate time. He restated this position during his most recent interview with Arise TV on January 1, 2022. “Some entrenched interests within the ruling All Progressives Congress, however, seem uncomfortable with the rising profile of the NGF Chairman and have resorted to cheap blackmail aimed at de-marketing him. “We urge members of the public to disregard the potpourri of lies and cheap blackmail that could be released in the coming days, while the promoters of this smear campaign are advised to concentrate on marketing their aspiration to the good people of Nigeria without recourse to defamation or character assassination of perceived competitors.” the governor said.