Fresh controversies have trailed the last Saturday Ward Congress organised by the main opposition, People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in Ekiti State as a group under the auspices of Ekiti Political Intervention Coalition(EPIC) has alleged that an impostor actually conducted the exercise other than governor, Udom Emmanuel, officially announced as the chairman of the committee. The group’s Publicity Secretary, Hon. Banji Dada in a statement made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti, on Sunday said it would be a great error for the National Working Committee(NWC) to accept the outcome of the congress. Armed Forces Remembrance Day: Occasion For Sober Reflection,… Tension In Ekiti As PDP Governorship Aspirants Reject Ward… Recall that some Governorship aspirants had protested the soddy conflict of the congress, hence rejected the outcome. The group posited that the congress, which was expected to have been conducted by a National Committee chaired by the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, was supervised by one Emmanuel Enoidem, this he said accounted for why the process ended in fiasco. The group called on the National Working Committee to suspend former Governor Ayodele Fayose for complicity and for allegedly stage-managing the rigging that trailed the exercise. ” Strangely, the exercise was conducted by a different person, an impostor called Emmanuel Enoidem, the immediate past National Legal Adviser of the PDP. This Emmanuel Enoidem was not listed and recognised by the NWC to be the Chairman of the Ekiti Ad-hoc delegates exercise, based on its official announcement, which has now rendered the entire exercise a nullity”. “A large number of the committee members sent to Ekiti for the congress had served under Uche Secondus led NWC described as tax collectors by Gov Nyesome Wike, while they also tried to frustrate Gov Makinde of Oyo State over the Southwest zonal executives. POLL “Some of them  are known loyalists of Fayose and have enjoyed his patronage. Dada posited that “We expect Senator  Ayu- led National Working Committee to rise to the occasion and ensure the nullification of the entire process and ensure the suspension of Ayodele Fayose from the party”. The group added further: “However, what we do not expect was the extent of culpability of the five-man ad-hoc committee sent by the National Working Committee of the party, which was led by an impostor. “We wish to inform the NWC and the entire leadership of the party that the ad-hoc election exercise to nominate three-person delegates was led and conducted by an interloper and someone unknown to law and the directive of the party. “There was no ad-hoc election known to law in the entire 177 wards in Ekiti State, except for an afterthought kangaroo arrangement in a few locations where some persons were told to start jubilating on camera shouting “Oshoko” to justify the electoral robbery. PDP, Governors, Jonathan Celebrate Tambuwal At 56 2023: PDP Settles For Northern Presidency – Babangida… “The entire exercise was a mockery cooked up to impose an aspirant on the PDP in Ekiti state”, the group stated