. Says He Was Man Of Integrity, Will Be Missed For Service To Humanity The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of YSEG Hotels and Suites Ibadan, Hon. Oladimeji Olayinka Segelu has expressed shock over the passing of the former Governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Alao Akala, describing his death as a big loss to the state and Nigeria as a whole. In a statement issued to commiserate with the Alao Akala family, the government and people of the Oyo State family, Olayinka Segelu, a Germany-based politician and businessman, said the late ex-governor would be remembered for his enormous contributions to the advancement of democracy, service to humanity, noteworthy role in the enthronement of peace, burning desire for rural development and political unity doing his time as Governor. Segelu Mourns Akeeb Abass, Promises Unflinching Support For… The statement reads: “I receive the news of the demise of our highly respected political leader, the former Governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Alao Akala, with the utmost sadness. Akala was a man of sincerity and integrity who stood with us, Segelu‘s family, immediately after our father was gruesomely killed by assassins in 2007 as a member of the House of Representatives. He personally assured me when we were both in PDP that he would give me the necessary support to actualize my ambitions. After his defection to Labour Party (LP) in December 2014, he made a series of efforts to woo me to LP giving me the assurances of securing the Akinyele/Lagelu Federal Constituency ticket but I declined due to my political stand on PDP. “Before his death was announced on Wednesday, I was on the phone chatting with PDP Ward 8 Youth leader in Akinyele Local Government Comrade Adereti Oluwafemi and made references to many of my political relationships with the late Alao Akala without knowing he will be pronounced dead on the same day. So sad and painful! Obviously, the vacuum created by the demise of the Oyato Governor would, surely, be difficult to fill. “The former governor lived a life worthy of emulation. He was an unassuming, kind-hearted and compassionate leader who did his best to put smiles on the faces of Oyo citizens. He was dedicated and committed to making life better for his people. Painful as we feel about his death, we are comforted with the fact that Akala would forever be remembered for his good acts.” Born on June 3, 1950, the late Alao Akala, a one-time Chairman of the Ogbomoso North Local Government Area of Oyo State, served in different capacities as a police officer before retiring as the Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Logistics and Supply, Oyo State Police Command, Ibadan. POLL He first served as Governor of Oyo State for eleven months following the impeachment of the then incumbent Governor Rasheed Ladoja who was reinstated by the Supreme Court in December 2006. As Deputy Governor, he contested the gubernatorial election under the umbrella of PDP and dislodged Ladoja to become the executive governor, serving a full term between 2007 and 2011.