….Commends Party’s National Chairman On purposeful Leadership Zenith Labour Party, ZLP, Delta State Chapter led by its Chairman, Comrade Emeka Nkwoala has said that 2023 general elections in Nigeria will be credible, transparent, free and fair. Delta ZLP Leadership made this remark during the weekend on Friday, 14th January 2022 in a communique made available to some group of Journalists at the party’s State Secretariat in Asaba, Delta State capital after an extensive meeting of the group. 2023: Electoral Amendment Bill: Stakeholders Urge NASS To… 2023: Akpabio May Succeed Buhari- Jackson Ojo ZLP Leadership in that communique which was duly signed by the duo of the Delta State Chairman, ZLP, Comrade Emeka Nkwoala, ZLP Delta State Secretary, Macpherson Obenobe commended the purposeful leadership of the ZLP National Chairman, Barr. Dan Nwanyanwu. The statement reads in parts: “We Commend our Zenith Labour Party, ZLP National Leadership, National Chairman, Barr. Dan Nwanyanwu for his purposeful Leadership”. “Our National Chairman has over time stabilized the party. And has positioned to the part of growth and progress”. “On our proposed state congresses, Delta State is well prepared to go ahead whenever our National body directs”. “We can be sure of that the 2023 election will be credible, transparent, free and fair. We opined that if the electoral bill is amended and presented for Mr President assent, will guarantee for credible elections in the country”. POLL “Zenith Labour Party, ZLP Delta State Chapter welcomes credible groups, individuals who are Deltans and Non-Deltans residing in the state”. “Our motto is Equity, Justice And Development. We resolved to strengthen on-going collaboration between our Party the Trade Unions in the state”. “We wish Deltans Happy New year 2022. We are in our own little way, had tried to popularise our party in Delta State using the state-owned Broadcast media (DBS and Radio Delta), print, the new, and social media platforms”. “We urge you to join us in preaching about ZLP ideologies”.