The duo of the Chief Consultant, B. Adedipe Associates Limited, Dr Biodun Adedipe and Chief Babajide Olatunde-Agbeja of Boff & Co Insurance Brokers Limited has charged the Federal Government and its agencies to be responsible for their insurance obligations by paying premium promptly and should also support the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in its bid to enforce the laws on insurance. Both experts lend their voices at a media parley jointly sponsored by the two firms, Boff & Co Insurance Brokers Limited and B. Adedipe Associates Limited for insurance journalists in Yaba, Lagos last week. According to him, the insurance industry would be better if the government and its agencies are responsible and put more firmness into it enforcement insurance industry would witness a change and more value creation within the economic ecosystem. Remittances: Where Is No Premium No Cover Policy Insurance Now Prerequisite For Farmers’ Loans– BoA “Nigeria still experience insurance low penetration and why. So, what next can the government do? Government also needs also to be responsible to its insurance obligations. It needs to promptly pay premium; there is also a need for flexibility and enforcement of necessary laws. “If the government and its agencies are responsible, put more firmness into enforcement, then, what we have today will change and the industry will create more value. And of course when insurance sector is vibrant, it enables businesses and entrepreneurs to take risks which is part of the economic growth,” he pointed out. For the economist, low insurance penetration in Nigeria is still one of the biggest challenges, asserting that there is need for operators to provide adequate information to policyholders and prospective insurance customers and clients. “If someone says because of religion, can we point them to the direction of takaful. People need to see that insurance is fundamental and important for growth. Globally insurance is becoming more important and Nigeria cannot be left out from this trend,” Dr. Adedipe stated. Similarly, experts have charged local insurance firms to increase capacity to retain more risks locally, thereby, increasing the profitability of insurance industry in the country. They agreed that the industry has improved its capacity over time, but that, a lot of insurance businesses in the country are still insured offshore. POLL They equally identified operators and regulators cooperation, sustained and constant stakeholders’ engagement, among others, as critical to the growth and development of the Nigerian insurance industry. Chief Babajide Olatunde-Agbeja, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Boff & Co Insurance Brokers Limited, called for increased capacity, regular staff training, investment in information and technology and regular engagement with stakeholders to grow the sector. According to him, “there is the need for increased capacity in the Nigerian insurance industry. When Boff and Co started special risk 25 years ago, we were doing about 70 per cent of our portfolio abroad, overtime, it reduced from 70 per cent to about 20 per cent and in the last six months, we had problems of finding excess capacity to insure abroad. I am proud to tell you that, as of today, the businesses we did in the last three months were 100per cent placed in Nigeria. “The capacity is growing but we need to back it up with technical know-how, training and retraining of staff. Insurance industry should keep pace with the trend of events globally because insurance business is an international business.” On the need for recapitalisation of the industry, he said, those who went to court to stop the earlier insurance recapitalisation exercise were doing a lot of disservice to insurance industry. SSA Insurers Chart New Distribution Channels For Insurance… PTAD Uses Repatriated N19.610bn To Fund Pension Liability “Although the industry is doing well, we only need to be better. We need to be sincere, be professional, and ensure that capacity increases continuously. The economy is opened, investors are coming in to investing in life and general businesses and special risks, because they have seen things we are not seeing and we need to work more on our technical know-how because that’s still lacking,” Chief Agbeja added.