AKURE – No fewer than 150 youths have been trained on export trading by the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) in Akure, the Ondo State capital, as part of the agency’s capacity building programme. Speaking on Monday at the completion of the training, the NEPC State’s Advisor, Mr Macpherson Fred-Ileogben, revealed that the programme was organised to rescue the nation’s businesses from the setback caused by the COVID-19 pandemic breakout. According to him, “the training tagged: ‘Export Expansion Facilities Programme (EEFP),’ is meant to build the capacity of youths and put them to speed in terms of non-oil export. Olota To Hold First Annual Retreat For Awori Monarchs EKOEXCEL Marks 2022 Int’l Day Of Education “The EEFP came up because of the experience of the whole world under COVID-19. “The Federal Government approved some facilities for export to be revamped so that export will not suffer totally and cushion the effects of the pandemic. “Many youths have benefited from the grants that have been given out already. “We were looking at a maximum of 80 youths when we were planning this event but I am surprised now that no fewer than 150 youths are here already. “That shows that the youths of Nigeria are appreciating what we are doing as far as non-oil export is concerned. POLL “We will try to see how we can make provisions for them since we have a large number already in order to make everybody happy with what we are doing today.” Moreover, the NEPC State’s Advisor advised that participants, who were drawn from different states in the Southwest Region, should make use of the knowledge acquired at the training, disclosing that they(participants) would be followed up by the agency for effective performance. Describing the training as an eye-opener, one of the participants, Mrs Atinuke Oyebamiji said: “For me to have come from Abeokuta, Ogun State, it’s worthwhile. The training is interesting. I have learnt about the signing of agreements, freight and forwarding and others. “Our lecturer made everything as simple as ABC unlike before when we thought it was a great burden. I can now say that my coming is not a waste.” Mr Adebukola Kolawole, another participant, described the programme as an opportunity for youths to have the technical know-how of the export business.