OSOGBO – A lawmaker on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Oluwole Oke has sought the intervention of the elder caucus in the leadership crisis rocking the party in Osun State. Oke who particularly admonished senator Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi representing the Ife/Ijesa senatorial district to champion the mediation move noted that the lingering crisis is adversely affecting the chances of the party to take over the rein of the state from ruling APC. Oke who is also representing Obokun/Oriade Federal Constituency appealed to the warring groups to sheath their swords and allow peace to reign in the party. NASS To Support Carbonated Drinks Tax Law, Says, Lawmaker Ex Lawmaker Banji Folaranmi, Others Arraigned For Death Threat,… According to him, “Senator Adenigba Fadahunsi is today by the grace of God the only PDP sitting Senator from Osun State and by this situation, the leader of PDP in Ife Ijesa land and Osun State. Sen Fadahunsi should act now by calling his feuding children together and settling the rift between them amicably. “For the first time in history, we have both Osun State PDP Chairman, Southwest Zonal Chairman and PRO from Ijesa Land,It’s a big plus for us. “Let us put our house in order. All cases in court against PDP should be withdrawn, Prince Diran Odeyemi’s letter to the PDP National Chairman, even though, did not ask for Hon Adagunodo’s removal, but should not come from any of us, rather, we should all prevail on those wishing to use Hon Adagunodo’s previous legal battles to settle scores to desist from doing so.” Hon. Oke noted that the Ife people would reap bountifully if the PDP succeeds in the next political battle in the state, “hence the Deputy Governor may likely come from the city.” POLL In the light of this, the Lawmaker enjoined Senator Fadahunsi to urgently reconcile everyone in the Ife/Ijesa land so that the would-be a common force to record victory in all elections, especially the gubernatorial election coming up soon. Hon. Oke stressed that “except we are deceiving ourselves it is very clear that the only candidate that has the war chest to prosecute the next gubernatorial election in Osun State is Senator Ademola Adeleke. Nobody should waste our time, by tradition, practices and convention, our last gubernatorial candidate in the last election,Senator Ademola Adeleke should and ought to have been adopted except if he declines. Let’s put our house in order to record the victory, let there be peace in Ife/ Ijesa Senatorial District”, he appealed. He however expressed his appreciation to all the party’s leaders and members in Obokun/Oriade for being loyal, consistent and steadfast in the struggle to sustain the party in its preparations to record victory for the party in the state.