Australia has can­celled the visa of Czech tennis player, Renata Voracova, who had entered the country to play in the Australian Open. She is being held in the same hotel as Serbian star Novak Djokovic, who is ap­pealing the cancellation of his visa. Djokovic’s initial ex­emption from vaccine re­quirements for unspecified reasons angered many Aus­tralians. Injury-Hit Halep Targets Top-10 Return … Players To Storm Lagos From Over 20 States The Czech government said Voracova entered Australia on a valid exemp­tion. She had contracted Covid-19 recently. The government in Prague says she will now withdraw from the tourna­ment and leave Australia. The Australian govern­ment said on Friday that a recent infection does not mean a foreign national can travel to the country without being fully vacci­nated. More than 90% of Aus­tralia’s adult population has had at least two doses of the coronavirus vaccine, but many still face restric­tions as Covid case num­bers rise. The initial decision to issue a visa to Djokovic caused anger amongst many Australians, who said that sports stars should be treated the same as everybody else. The Ser­bian star is known for his opposition to vaccines. POLL The Australian Open begins on January 17 in Melbourne. Tensions and emotions have been high outside the hotel where Novak Djokovic is being kept. His supporters were there well after midnight. Some wrote “stay strong” in big yellow letters on the pavement. Others lit can­dles. “It’s [the Orthodox] Christmas,” a woman told me, visibly emotional. “He’ll be alone up there. It’s a farce.” There are many strands to this story. The anger. The politics. The visa. And of course, the tennis – which is what the world number one is here for. COVID-19: US Open Champion Raducanu Pulls Out Of Abu Dhabi… WTA Suspends China Tournaments Over Peng Shuai Concerns Djokovic fans are furious that he’s been allowed to come all the way to Austra­lia only to be told he had to leave on a visa technicality. But other Australians are outraged that a world-class athlete who’s been vocal about his vaccine opposition was granted an exemption, while their own politicians have urged them for nearly a year now to get both jabs and now the booster. Both shades of anger are understandable and they have at least one thing in common: fury about how the authorities have han­dled this. There has been a con­tinuous tussle – and lots of blame-shifting – between the state and federal gov­ernments and Tennis Aus­tralia. Politicians have wanted to prove that they can con­trol who comes in and out of the country but in doing so they have lost control of the narrative. It’s an embarrassing sit­uation for Australia which­ever way you look at it.