MAKURDI – Operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Benue State Command have intercepted a female trafficker in her bid to traffic six female teenag­ers to Bukina-Faso. Daily Independent gath­ered that the operatives of the NSCDC swooped on the suspect, Mnena Kwagh­mande, along with her vic­tims opposite Amaco Hotel, Gboko, Gboko Local Govern­ment Area (LGA) of the state last Wednesday. The age range of the vic­tims who were all geared up for the trip before they were nabbed by officers and men of the NSCDC were between 16 and 20 years old. Okowa Mourns Shonekan Inner Wheel District 912 Marks Founders Day, Donates Baby Kits… Dr. Philip Okoh, the NSC­DC State Commandant, dis­closed this while parading the suspect and her victims at the State Command of the Corps in Makurdi on Tues­day. He explained that on in­terrogation, it was discov­ered that the suspect had told parents of the victims, who hailed from Vandeikya LGA of the state that she was taking them to assist her in selling food at her restaurant in Bukina-Faso. Okoh said, “We are show­ing to the public what we have done so far in terms of securing Benue State and ensuring peace. Behind me we have a seasoned traffick­er who goes about luring unsuspecting parents by convincing them that they are going abroad for green­er pastures. “Investigations have re­vealed that they were tak­ing them to Bukina-Faso. We did this operation in conjunction with officers of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP).” He cautioned parents against releasing their wards to people who prom­ise them greener pastures abroad, adding that such journeys have and are still landing many in unimag­inable throes. POLL The victims who corrob­orated the story of the sus­pect, whom they identified as a relation, had told their parents that she was sick and therefore needed them to go with her to Bukina-Faso and assist her at her restaurant. Similarly, the Command paraded a suspected armed robber identified as Iorchi­vir Caleb, who specialised in robbing POS agents. The robber who was ar­rested while trying to rob a POS merchant along George Akume way, Makurdi last Friday, had in his possession a locally made pistol.