OWERRI – Ahead of the nation’s next general elections, a political analyst and public opinion commentator, Hon Austin Nnodim has called on the various political parties jostling for the polls to adopt direct primaries to select their candidates. He said while most Nigerians see the direct primary option as the only way for true democracy, not a few scorn the indirect primary option as undemocratic and a kangaroo arrangement by few political top leaders which does not promote true democracy. Speaking to our correspondent, Nnodim who is the MD/ CEO of “Ezelukwu Ventures Nig. Ltd and Stino Environmental Technical Services” also argued that political parties warning up for the election with their variegated political ideologies should be showcased to Nigerians to make their choice. Expert Blames Poor Academic Performance On NTDs 2023 Election: Any Igbo man who supports Tinubu Should Be… As the nation’s electoral umpire, Nnodim advised INEC to be firm, demonstrate utmost transparency and credibility in the conduct of the polls, remain impartial and without bias in taking their decisions. This, he said is in respect to the release of elections results emaciating from the various voting centres. The technocrat who bemoaned the ceaseless wave of insurgency in the country and the inability of the federal government to remedy the situation contrary to its promise to Nigerians seven years ago, noted that this had created doubts in the minds of most Nigerians and among the political parties about the feasibility of holding the polls. “From their bloody activities, the Boko Haram sect would have made the administration of former president Goodluck Jonathan ungovernable but he (Jonathan) lost the election in 2015. Seven years after, nothing has happened and there are fears among Nigerians that the dogs and baboons will be soaked with blood if the choice of the manufacturer of these words did not succeed”. POLL On the clamour for presidency by the various ethic nationalities, Nnodim noted that Nigerians accepted and welcomed the creation of six (6) geo political zones by which power rotates between the North and the South in the equal number of states in the geo-political zones.