LAGOS – The Chairman of Ojodu Local Council Development Area, David Odunmbaku has said that the council will soon introduce an electronic method of billing. Odunmbaku made this known at the opening of a two-day budget retreat organised by the council over the weekend, held at the De Meros Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. The council boss explained that the essence of the budget retreat tagged “Budger of the new beginning”, is to develop a well-planned 2022 appropriation that will clearly outline people’s oriented programmes and projects. Subsidy Removal Will Help 2022 Budget Implementation –… ‘2022 Budget, Unsure Revenue Raise Risk Of Higher Fiscal… Odunmbaku further stated that the event is to strategize on government policies formulation that will be beneficial to the people of Ojodu and it’s effective implementation. “As you are aware, the purpose of the retreat is to review our previous year budget performance, to brainstorm and make decisions on the new fiscal year budget.” “We are changing some few things this year, we have started data capturing already. We’ll also be rolling out e-billing this year, that will assist us in reaching more places.” “We have decided to remain focused on our 4-point Agenda (H.E.Y.S) in order to achieve our projected sustainable development. The key compost the H.E.Y.S agenda represents Health, Education, Youth & Women Empowerment and Social Infrastructure. This is also expected to form the basis for assessing the current administration.” He, however, praised the management and staff of the council for their support, saying, “I thank you all for your support, I’m a big fan of training, so training and retraining of our staff is also my responsibility, this will allow us to get new ideas and technology,” he said. POLL In his closing remark, the council-manager, Engr. Dele Abayomi, implored all participants to contribute effectively to the growth of the council. “On behalf of the management and staff, I want to thank you for your support Mr. Chairman. To all of us here today, we must up our games, be committed and contribute effectively to the growth of the council,” said Abayomi.