LAGOS – Honourable Kunle Okunola, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the convener of Tinubu Not Negotiable (TNN), a pro-Tinubu presidential support group, has said that those members of the APC expressing interest to fly the ticket of the party in 2023, apart from Tinubu are agents of confusion. Okunola, in an interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said that APC has only one candidate that is qualified to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023, stressing that all the people coming out apart from Tinubu are agents of one destabilising force or confusion. He said, “These people may want some cabal to fund them but now that the eagle has landed it is going to reduce the number of people who want to contest under our party. Some of them thought that if Asiwaju didn’t contest, he could nominate them or support them including the vice president. “I read in one of the social media platforms that Osinbajo was made the campaign Director General of Asiwaju and I thought it was incorrect. What I know is that the action of Tinubu would have reduced the number of people who had the intention to aspire even when they are aware that they lack the capacity to contest under our party.  It will also afford us the opportunity to identify betrayers because, in the North and South, nobody is supposed to sneeze when Asiwaju roars,” he said. The former Lagos State organising secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who has been at the forefront of the campaign for Tinubu’s presidential ambition for over two years said that he decamped to the APC to make Tinubu the President “When we started there was this speculation that Asiwaju didn’t tell anybody that he wanted to be president but we can see how things have played out. When Asiwaju becomes the president we will be able to further understand some of these people and also identify capable hands that can join hands with him to rule this nation. 2023: I’ll Reverse Yearly Economic Losses When Elected… 2023 Presidency: 600 Women Groups To Stage… Responding to questions as to the speculation that the vice president Yemi Osinbajo has what it takes to also aspire, Okunola said, “It is true that the vice president has what it takes to succeed Buhari but he doesn’t have the knowledge, capacity, resources and wealth of knowledge like Asiwaju. “He is the vice president of Nigeria but he has not mounted the seat of leadership. Asiwaju nominated him to be the vice president and as long as Nigerians are looking for the best, we shouldn’t go for substandard, especially now that Nigeria is bleeding. We need a proactive person who can quickly transform the country and heal most of the wounds that we have,” he said.