As I reflected over the events of last year and tried to formulate a more positive vision for the new year, it struck me that I am actually living in a country where rea­son and logic do not find much space in public discourse. Both the government and the citizens appear confused about the rationale and purposes of their exis­tence within the polity as no one seems responsible or willing to assume respon­sibility for the defense and promotion of the common good. Instead, everyone is concerned about what they can take out of the disorderliness of the situation with no thought about how their selfish dispositions affect the future wellbeing of Nigeria. Everywhere one looks at, there are surfeit of inanities and there appears to be a deliberate national affirmation of a lifestyle that is devoid of purpose beyond the convenient and personalised here and now: tomorrow does not mat­ter. It therefore poses a Herculean task for anyone trying to make sense out of what constitutes the fundamental na­ture and purpose of the Nigerian soci­ety, one where both the leaders and the led are all at a loss about the goal and purpose of the State from which they derive their citizenship and privileges with the result that everyone is at a loss as to whom they are and how they are organically connected to the system. In other words, Nigeria is a no man’s land to be corruptly exploited because there is no assurance that it has a future. Otherwise, how does one explain the all-pervading anarchy in the land? An­other is the irresistible borrowing spree that has suddenly gripped the govern­ment that apparently has no plan or the slightest idea about how to repay those debts other than the fact that they are only concerned about what happens during the pendency of their interreg­num; Nigeria could subsequently go into bankruptcy, a scary possibility which they don’t care about. Magodo And Our Wacky Federalism Effervescent Bolaji Akinyemi At 80: They Don’t Come This Good… The profligacy that still exists in government has no bearing with the stark reality of our current and future wretchedness. One would have expect­ed that with the economic down-turn, there would be an urgent rethink about the built-in wayward squander-mania in our post-colonial governing system: the Presidency is still immersed in imperi­al grandeur, governors are still moving in elongated convoys, ministers and top civil servants are still drawing stupen­dous and sinecure “allowances” sourced from corruptly padded budgets, MDAs are still deeply involved in their klep­tocratic “kill and divide” revenue gen­eration scheme with reckless abandon and some people still have the guts to be telling the nation that “the economy is bad” but they should “pay your taxes, levies and higher prices!” Why? All these inanities are possible only because Nigeria has refused to define for herself what the operational parameters for assessing what is right and what is wrong are, i.e., a National Integrity Plan against which everyone can figure out for him or herself whether a course of action is acceptable or not. At the mo­ment, there is no over-arching nation­al moral or ethical guidelines against which all our actions are judged which then leaves wide open an immoral high­way for everything we do in government, be it in the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The average Nigerian has long accepted the unfortunate real­ity that crime/corruption does pay as they are all now into the anarchic rat-race to get whatever they can from the uncaring system. A few examples of how far we have gone in this national I-don’t-care-ism highway will suffice. Here are some of them: The Tucano “Jets” Heresy Lately, we have been inundated with the noise about the acquisition of “Su­per Tucano jet fighters”. News media had run the story on a “cut and paste” basis without trying to find out whether what the government has acquired are truly “jet fighters”. The truth of the mat­ter is that the Tucano planes are tactical single-engine light aircrafts suitable for short combat sorties in locations where jet fighters may not find it easy to oper­ate. Anyone who knows something about aircrafts and, in particular, military air­crafts, should know that Tucanos are not jet aircrafts and I challenge our Air Mar­shalls to refute this obvious fact. The question now is: Why has this fundamental misnomer endured? Is it to perpetuate the myth of Nigeria’s air tactical power or what? The point here is that nobody really cares about the veracity or otherwise of certain widely held national claims because we do not have a national ideology around which we could build an integrity plan against which all actions of the State and citi­zens could be rationally evaluated. That is why Nigeria does not know the exact “republic” that she is in today or cites its constitution correctly because we are nei­ther in the “Fourth Republic” nor have “Constitution as amended”, respectively even though we hear these misleading and nonsensical phrases daily. POLL AGF Malami Unlawful Invasion Of Magodo The Attorney-General of the Federa­tion, Mallam Abubakar Malami, purport­ing to be enforcing a Supreme Court’s order, rudely or ignorantly by-passed the same Supreme Court’s Rules on en­forcement of court judgments in Nigeria, stormed Magodo GRA Phase 2 in Lagos with platoons of armed out-of-jurisdic­tion policemen, to enforce a non-exis­tent “possession order”. If Malami was a diligent lawyer, he should have taken the pain to read the Supreme Court’s decision and he would have discovered that nowhere in the more than 30-page judgment was the Lagos State Govern­ment directed to give possession to the judgment creditors or that the innocent residents who are not parties to the suit be “dispossessed” of their plots. The SC order is clear: It only directed the Lagos State Government to “mag­nanimously” allocate certain number of plots to the aggrieved landlords who had actually encroached on already acquired land after the original inhabitants have been duly compensated. You don’t have to attend a Law School to understand that, with respect to land utilisation since the Land Use Act, that without “allocation” or existing customary title, there can nev­er be lawful “possession” but that was exactly what the AGF and the IGP wanted to do in Magodo Estate on the eve of the new year. They completely forgot the le­gal maxim ‘lex non cogit ad impossibilia’, namely, the law does not ask for what is impossible. How could Malami and the IGP seek to enforce a possession order in favour of a party who has no ‘res’, in this cases, specifically designated plot(s) in any official survey plan, to his name? There is no doubt that the Lagos State Government, by the tone of the Supreme Court’s judgement, is obligated “to allo­cate” plots of land to those judgment creditors and its failure to do so prompt­ly was contemptuous but there is no le­gal way that the current residents of the Magodo Estate who are “innocent buyers for value” could be legally ejected from their properties that are secured by Cer­tificates of Occupancy. It only shows how far removed from realities Nigerians have become as they now tend to think that anything is possi­ble and that anarchic mentality explains AGF Malami’s overzealous gaffe over the Magodo palaver. Now that the Lagos state government has finally agreed to do the needful, we should expect that peaceful and quiet enjoyment of occupancy have returned to the residential high-brow Estate. The whole development involves an arrogant display of abusive federal power, and it has unwittingly re-opened the political wounds concerning Nige­ria’s federalism and the inevitability of State Police. Federalism implies a deli­cate constitutional separation of pow­ers between the centre and the region/state in certain areas of governance and Malami just failed that simple Constitu­tional Law101 test. Shameful.