Former governor of Ekiti State and gubernatorial aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP),Chief Segun Oni has again expressed optimism about his planned return to power, even as he promised to partner the people to rediscover Ekiti dream. The frontline  PDP chieftain ,in his New Year message entitled, “We are ready to rebuild and rediscover Ekiti dream ” urged the people to put the disappointments of the previous years behind them and  look forward for brighter  days. He equally canvassed support for the new national leadership of the PDP  led by His Excellency, Sen (Dr) Iyorchia Ayu, to reclaim and rescue Ekiti and Nigeria. Delta Monarch Commends Okowa, Offers Scholarship To 48 Students 2023 Governorship Race: Enugu East Insists On Ticket The former governor  used the occasion to”  covet the people “s prayers and support to emerge victorious in our party primary election and the governorship poll” Oni said ” my dear inestimable people of Ekiti State, I wish you a happy and healthy New Year full of fulfilled aspirations, dreams and renewals. This is always a hopeful time, as we celebrate the beginning of 2022. I urge you to fear not, trust in God and believe that help is on the way to Rebuild Back Better and Rediscover the Ekiti Dream. “While 2021 was difficult for many of us, we must look forward in the New Year with the knowledge that brighter days are ahead of us. I am confident we will come back, and we are going to come back even better and stronger than before. “Your clarion call to me to return in the service of the state has met my preparedness to serve you again and even better. But we must come together, keep together and work together to get things done. I do not doubt that we will do better when we work together. ” I want to assure the people of Ekiti that we are ready to rebuild our security architecture, human capital ecosystem and infrastructure in technology and construction. We will partner you to rediscover the Ekiti Dream, where we shall collectively build a prosperous land, seek the forgotten and leave no one behind. POLL “To my party leaders and members, I urge you to let us work together, demonstrate courage and perseverance, toe the path of peace and support the new national leadership led by His Excellency, Sen (Dr) Iyorchia Ayu, to reclaim and rescue Ekiti and Nigeria.” hr added .