***As Military High Command Solicits More Cooperation, Understanding To End Insecurity ABUJA – The Director, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Major General Bernard Onyeuko, has disclosed that, a total of 863 terrorists and their families have surrendered to troops in Banki, Bama, Dikwa, Gwoza and Gamboru towns in Borno State, within two weeks. General Onyeuko who revealed this during a biweekly press briefing on the operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, on Thursday at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja said, the surrendered terrorists comprised of “136 adult males, 251 adult females and 476 children.” NSCDC Arrest Two Suspects Parading Themselves As Herbalists To… Three Bag 17 Years Imprisonment N60,000 Robbery According to him, troops have aggressively sustained their operations on the terrorists, bandits and other criminal elements by maintaining offensive engagements in all theatres of operation within the Country, which recorded appreciable results. The surrendered terrorists, he noted have been properly profiled and handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary actions. He also explained that, troops of Operation HADIN KAI, conducted various land and air operations in different locations of the theatre with renewed vigour that recorded significant results in the last two weeks. According to General Onyeuko, some of the operations were conducted at different locations in towns, villages and forests under; Konduga, Mafa, Dikwa, Gwoza, Bama, Bayo, Kukawa, Monguno, Nganzai and Damboa LGAs of Borno as well as locations in the Sambisa forest. He said, “Troops also recorded significant results at various locations in Adamawa and Yobe States, around the Mandara Mountain and along Damaturu – Potuskum road, respectively. POLL “Notably, ground troops with the support of the Air Component aggressively foiled terrorists’ attempted infiltration into Biu town in Borno State. During the encounter, troops neutralized scores of the terrorists and captured their gun trucks and other weapons. “These operations resulted in the elimination and arrest of several terrorists, recovery of assorted arms, ammunition, livestock and other items of security concern as well as rescue of abducted civilians. Furthermore, troops’ operational activities have continued to drive terrorists out of their camps into surrendering with their arms and families in the North East Zone of the Country.” Consequently, within this period under review, troops have neutralized a total of 37 terrorist elements, arrested 17 of them as well as recovered 21 assorted arms and 117 rounds of different calibres of ammunition, while a total of 4 gun trucks were captured from the terrorists. “Additionally, troops rescued a total of 16 abducted civilians within the period. “ In a related development, the Air Component of Operation HADIN KAI was said to have scored devastating hits on terrorists’ stronghold at Arina Chiki village in the Lake Chad Basin in Borno State, which resulted in the neutralization of scores of the terrorist, while several others escaped with various degrees of injuries. Soldiers Dislodge ESN Operatives, Kill Many In Anambra UPDATE: Another Paramount Ruler Kidnapped In Plateau State This feat, he said was achieved on the 14 January 2022, when on the heels of credible intelligence, a force package of NAF platforms were dispatch to attacked the identified location which the terrorists used as venue for biweekly meetings; the NAF platforms took out the terrorists in successful turns of airstrikes. Within the last two weeks, troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI were said to have maintained the operational tempo by conducting clearance operations on criminal enclaves across the theatre. Some of the locations in which troops’ operational efforts yielded significant results include Gurbin Baure – Shimfada road, Gidan Saleh and Girnashe villages as well as Jibia town in Jibia LGA, all in Katsina State. Other locations were; Wasagu town in Danko-Wasagu LGA of Kebbi State and Kara Kalmalo village in Ilella LGA of Sokoto State. Consequently, these operations resulted in the neutralization of 12 armed bandits and arrest of 15 including their collaborators. Also, a total of 16 assorted arms and 136 rounds of different calibres of ammunition and 114 rustled livestock were recovered by own troops within the period. In addition, troops recovered 3 extra magazines of AK-47 rifle and 4 motorcycles from bandits, while a total of 3 kidnapped civilians were rescued in the course of the operations. Meanwhile, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN carried out several operational activities at different locations of the theatre that yielded significant results. Some of the operations were executed at; Shendam in Shendam LGA, Rukuba road and Apata area in Jos North LGA; Tyana community in Riyom LGA, Vom town in Jos South LGA, Tudu village in Bokkos LGA, Gassa Sho Hills in Barkin Ladi LGA and Kampani village in Wase LGA, all in Plateau State. Other locations are; Afana Bujja Forest and Gidan Waya village in Jama’a LGA as well as Kaffin village and Kiffin Chawai Chiefdom in Kaura LGA of Kaduna State. In the course of the operations, troops arrested some criminal elements including armed robbers and bandits, their collaborators, drug peddlers and fraudsters as well as rescued kidnapped civilians and recovered several items of security concern. Thus, within the period, “Own troops arrested 27 criminal elements and rescued 6 kidnapped civilians. Also, troops recovered five arms and 69 different calibers of ammunition among other items of security concern in the course of their operations.” While assuring that, the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies across the Country will continue to maintain their stand in the efforts to deny criminal elements freedom of actions, the Military High Command appreciated the troops for their sacrifices in the various theatres of operation and commends their courage and resilience in combating the security challenges across the Country. This is a the Military High Command appreciated the general public for the cooperation given the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies in the course of our operations. “However, like Oliver Twist, we hereby solicit for more cooperation and understanding. Gentlemen of the press, we appreciate you for your immense support and further encourage all to continue to avail security forces with credible and timely information that will aid our proactive operational engagements in the Country.”