LAGOS – A Professor of Childhood Education, Prof. Folasade Sulaiman has called for an ethical re-orientation of the Nigerian citizenry if the country is desirous of national development. Prof. Sulaiman made this call at the 10th Inaugural Lecture of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, with the title: “Rape of our Childhood: Stakeholders in Court”, held recently at the University’s main campus, Ijegun in Ogun State. While noting that there was a great need for redirecting the minds of the citizens towards what will give greater gains in the long run, she further called for a change in the wrong perception of people about everything in life. All Sections Of Nigerians’re Carried Along On National… Promote Yoruba Language For National Development, Group Tells… According to her, it is strongly believed that all the exhibition of moral laxity is as a result of misconceptulalised societal dreams and aspirations. She blamed the citizenry for the failure of Democracy in Nigeria, just as she disclosed that Democracy can only thrive in a society where there is transparency, hardwork, selflessness, patriotism and a great sense of duty which she noted is virtually non-existent in Nigeria. She stated that her inaugural lecture title was derived from societal disintegration, due to the wrong approach to childcare that failed to train future leaders to whom, the baton of leadership will be handed over. The Professor of Childhood Education also pointed out that the 21st Century has turned the world into a global market where the new education goals expected students to possess skills in creativity, critical thinking, communication, appreciation, value orientation and collaboration. “To make learning more effective and knowledge more useful, academic curricula must be updated to take into consideration the dynamism of modern global life,” she added. POLL She further disclosed that every nation should develop a curriculum that would include values to be promoted by individuals and the entire nation because the foundation for the achievement of the demand for the 21st century is embedded in the quality of education received by the learners as well as the quality of the implementers of the curriculum. While calling on the government and other stakeholders in the education sector to get its priorities right as early childhood education is one of the most cost-effective ways of solving some of the societal ills bedeviling the nation. As part of the solution to the training of children, she stated categorically the role of mother tongue in the teaching of children which should not be toyed with. Other recommendations proffered by the Professor include fostering partnership among all the stakeholders of education, community participation in the education of children, importance of children’s health and their education, family union and children’s well-being, marital quality, marital adjustment and marital satisfaction among others.