TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI When asked in early January who he prefers as his successor, President Muhammadu Buhari declined, saying it would be too early to anoint the person to take over from him. He further added that if he disclosed his preferred candidate, the person may be eliminated before the 2023 general election. Buhari who first said he had nobody in mind later said even if he has a candidate, he will prefer to keep it a secret. His words “I don’t have any favourite for 2023 and if I do, I won’t reveal his identity because if I do, he may be eliminated before the election. I better keep it secret”. 2023: It’s An Insult To Say Southerners Have No… Ekiti APC Primary Was Hijacked, Truncated, Compromised By State… Few days after the president’s statement, the media was awash with reports that the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouq Umar, will confer the prestigious traditional title of “Dan Amana Daura” on Rotimi Amaechi, the Honourable Minister of Transportation, at his palace, on February 5, 2023. In literal translation, Dan Amana Daura means ‘The Trusted Son of Daura’ and in bestowing the title on Amaechi, the Daura Emirate Council believed that he is worthy of the honour in view of the recognition of his contributions to the socio-economic development of the country, especially for his effort in bringing to life the rail sector that has been moribund for over three decades. Ever since the news broke, there has been a huge disquiet in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as many are wondering if Amaechi is the preferred candidate of President Buhari . Daura is the hometown of the President and many believed that he must have been consulted and perhaps, gave his approval for the title to be bestowed on Amaechi. As President Buhari, a northerner will be rounding up his constitutionally allowed two-term in 2023, it is given that the party will zone the presidential ticket to the South in 2023 and even though the former two-term governor of Rivers is yet to formally declare his intention to run, several groups who have been urging him to throw his hat in the ring believe that he will do so in a matter of days. In his reaction, Peter Georgewill, a chieftain of the APC in Rivers state said he won’t be surprised if Amaechi is President Buhari’s favoured candidate. According to him, Amaechi’s performance as Director-General of President Buhari’s campaign in 2015 and 2019 and his appointment as Minister twice by the President is a testimony to the robust relationship, he enjoys with the number one citizen. POLL “ This is not just an ordinary title. It is very symbolic to the discerning minds, especially coming at this time when activities for the general elections have commenced. Amaechi has really paid his dues as a former two-term speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, former two-term governor of Rivers state, former chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum and two- term Minister. God willing, he will also be a two-term President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria beginning from 2023”. “The Dan Amana Daura title further deepen Amaechi’s affiliation to the North and boost his marketability for the presidency as a detribalised Nigerian” he said. Also writing on the title, Bello Iron Malumfashi said “Chief Rotimi Amaechi, as it is well known, is of the Ikwerre ethnic group in faraway Rivers state. What, many would ask, is the meaning and significance of the title, Dan Amana in the Hausa traditional setting in general and in Daura Emirate institution in this particular instance. Why was he singled out from the lot of the present Federal Cabinet members for this enviable honour?” “Dan Amana, in everyday Hausa language, is used in reference to someone that is trustworthy, a person of noble character and carriage, a confidant or, an honourable gentleman whose words can be relied upon. Expanded, it also can mean an altruist”. “It is in the light of the above that we welcome this singular honour done to a deserving personality has not only actualized the dream and aspirations of his Principal in the person of President Muhammadu Buhari , a true son of Daura, in spearheading his railway revolution nationwide but also established the only University of transportation in the country cited in the ancient City. The people of Daura through the Emir, have by this token, spoken loud and clear of their love and appreciation of the enigma called Chief Rotimi Chibuke Amaechi, The Dan Amana of Daura Kingdom”. Gani Adams Admonishes Yahaya Bello To Adopt  Amotekun In Kogi Ekiti APC Primary: Opeyemi Urges Supporters To Remain Calm The people Daura have every reason to be grateful to Amaechi. No emirate in the North or town in Nigeria has reaped as bountifully from the table of the Transportation Minister as Daura. Against criticisms, Amaechi ensured that a Transportation university is sited in Daura. He also ensured that the US$1.959 billion Kano-Maradi Standard Gauge Railway line passed through Daura. Construction of both projects is ongoing. He also mounted a stiff defence for the Kano-Maradi (Niger Republic) rail line. The $1.959bn, 248 kilometre Kano-Maradi railway project will start from Kano, pass through Dambatta, Kazaure, Daura, Mashi, Katsina, Jibia and terminate in Maradi. In interviews on some TV stations in October 2020, Amaechi said the Kano-Maradi rail line will afford the country the opportunity to compete in the area of transporting cargoes, goods, and services to and from landlocked neighbouring countries like Niger via the seaports in Lagos, adding that it’s all about economics, not politics. “Last week, we awarded the contract for Kano to Maradi and people were screaming, why are we taking it to Niger Republic? It’s important to take it to Niger because of economic reasons. Most coastal territories in Africa are competing better than us in terms of cargoes coming from the hinterland in the landlocked countries. “We decided to join the market and compete so that we can make our seaports very viable. We decided to introduce the Kano-Maradi rail so that we can convey their goods from Maradi (a boundary village) to our ports with ease. I don’t know why people are screaming about it. It’s about economics, not politics. On December 2, 2019, Amaechi, at the groundbreaking of the Transportation University, Daura, Katsina State, disclosed how he forced the Chinese construction firm, CCECC, to construct the university. “I engaged the companies. The first engagement was when they were constructing Lagos-Ibadan. They were not so keen at spending their funds to build a university for Nigeria, until I refused to sign the contract for the Lagos to Ibadan railway”. “The first thing is to take our children to China and train them by giving them a first degree in railway technology. The second is that, if we must sign the purchase of locomotives in China, they must build a factory where we can construct coaches, locomotives and wagons and today at Kajola that factory is being constructed. Finally, I insisted on the University of Transportation.” If Amaechi eventually declares interest in the 2023 presidential election and he gets President Buhari’s endorsement for the APC ticket, then it will not come to many as a surprise because the ‘Dan Amana Daura’ title from the appreciative people of Daura and the Emirate Council is already pointing in that direction.