LAGOS  – 2021 was one of the years of surprises due to the number of General Overseers who transited, leaving behind a large congregation and followers who loved them. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT has a spotlight on eight of them, namely, Rev. Dr. Obiora Ezekiel, Rev. Wilson Badejo, Apostle Joseph Dominic Agboli, Pastor Temitope Balogun Joshua, Rev. Stephen Akinola, Rev. Charles Osueke, Apostle John Paul Okwok and Bishop Moses Grandeur. REV. DR. OBIORA EZEKIEL Focus On Productivity, Akinadewo Tells Christians Approach 2022 With Determination, Adeboye Advises The late preacher, who passed on at the age of 78 on Friday, November 19, 2021, was the Founder and General Overseer of Christian Pentecostal Mission (CPM) International, and one of the founding fathers of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), a bloc of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). He was fondly called Daddy Ezekiel and ‘Demon Bulldozer’. In 2019, he marked of the golden jubilee of his ‘50 years behind the pulpit’. An official statement by the church, signed by Rev. John Ezeh, Coordinator, CPM International, Imo State, Nigeria, and member, Board of Trustees, revealed that the late God’s General had foreseen his death and encouraged the church to hold the fort. Ezekiel was described to have undeniably paved the way and made his shoulder available for many to climb. His wife, Rev. Dr. Mercy Ezekiel, otherwise known as ‘Praying Machine’, before his death, had been a pillar in the church and also the PFN. REV. DR. WILSON BADEJO He was the third General Overseer of Four Square Gospel Church in Nigeria, 1999 to 2009, and one of the Fathers of Christian faith in Nigeria. Described as an Evangelist, church planter, teacher, pastor, leader and servant; one whose name is synonymous to the Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria, Badejo brought much light to the spread of the gospel and popularity to the church. POLL He was described as one who was not confined to the walls of the church which he belonged, but made much impact in Christendom. Rev. Yomi Oyinloye, National Secretary, The Four Square Gospel Church in Nigeria, in a statement tagged ‘Spiritual Colossus Joins The Saints Triumphant’, stated, “Rev. Dr. Badejo went to be with the Lord in the early hours of Saturday August 7, 2021. “He was a great achiever, an accomplished servant of God, a role model, a bridge builder, a quintessential ecclesiastical frontline leader, a gifted orator, a trail blazer, mentor, teacher per excellence, an apostle and respected family man. “Dr. Badejo served the Foursquare Gospel Church in Nigeria in several ministerial capacities, crowning his stewardship at the apex as the General Overseer of the Church from 1999 to 2009. “He was a man of many parts who was able to unlock socio-cultural gateways, and in the process successfully endeared several friends and loved ones from all works of life across the divide.” APOSTLE JOSEPH DOMINIC AGBOLI JFC Seeks Lasting Solution To Travails Of IDPs A Good Government Should Not Dismiss Criticisms – Odesola Late founder and General Overseer of Victorious Army Ministries International, Apostle Dr. Joseph Dominic Agboli died on August 25, at 58. The church on Thursday, September 16, during a briefing at the church headquarters, Lagos, to announce his burial arrangements, had dismissed he died of COVID-19. The church also said choosing his successor would be rancour free. “We are an organised church. The issue of succession will not bring any rancour or disunity. I will like to let you know that the Holy Spirit is already taking control,” Deacon Patrick Idiake said in the company of Deacon Olanrewaju Joshua, Elder Alex Okereke, Elder Emeka Beke and Deacon John Ekpakpare. The burial ceremony held at the church headquarters on ACME Road, OgbaIkeja, Lagos, with service of songs on Friday November26, while interment took place Saturday, November 27 and the thanksgiving service on Sunday 28. Meanwhile, in an interview with a national daily (not Independent titles), his wife, Pastor Blessing Agboli opened up on her experience since the death of her husband after and some allegations against her. “It has been traumatic. He was ill for a while and we had believed God for his healing. Joseph Agboli was a man of faith and we believed so much on the efficacy of God’s power, healing, which is his major calling…. We have seen the dead raised, we have seen the sick healed, even while he was in the hospital, he was praying for people and they were getting healed. I missed him. “Surprisingly, I have not had any issue with the church or with his immediate family. But, his half-sister, who maltreated him, has been the one talking. She cannot claim to know me. My husband had not seen her for 28 years. She doesn’t know what my children look like. “She’s been the one accusing me and went to the press to lay claims of what I don’t know anything about. My husband’s sister is quiet. She has been quiet, and she is still in shock. To his younger siblings, I am their Maama. “But, the half-sister is the one who has been funny. She contacted a YouTuber, who claimed to know me when I was carrying drugs. This YouTuber in question I don’t know her,” she partly stated. PROPHET TEMITOPE BALOGUN (TB) JOSHUA Leader and founder of The Synagogue Church of All Nations, Pastor TB Joshua’s death was described as a colossal loss, which came as rude shock due to his popularity around the globe. He was one of the foremost Nigerian charismatic pastors, televangelist, and a philanthropist, who devoted his entire lifetime for the propagation of the gospel and ministering to the needs of the downtrodden. He was renowned for his philosophical simplicity and humility. His death is not only a loss to the family and the church, but to Nigeria and the world at large, a condolence letter from the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, contained. President Muhammadu Buhari also in his condolence message, through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said, the “renowned televangelist will be missed by his followers all over the world not only for his spiritual contributions but for touching many lives through philanthropic gestures.” Buhari urged his followers to take solace in the knowledge that life was not measured and defined by chronological longevity, but by enduring legacies and lives touched positively. He died on June 5 as widely reported, a week ahead of his 58th birthday, after concluding a church service. REV. STEPHEN AKINOLA The late popular Rivers State preacher was the General Superintendent of Redemption Ministries Worldwide, based in Port Harcourt. The news of his death came shortly after the death of the Pastor TB Joshua, who died on Sunday, June 6 at 68. It was reported that the fiery preacher, who left the Deeper Christian Life Ministry in January 1987, was in Abuja for his second kidney transplant when he died in the early hours of Sunday, after spent several months in India for the same operation that was unsuccessful. He was also reported to be a native of Igboho, Oyo State, but born on March 4, 1953 in the Northern part of Ghana in a city called Tamale, into the family of Samuel Akinola, though he lost his father in a accident at 13. REV. CHARLES OSUEKE Rev. Charles Osueke, former General Superintendent of the Assemblies of God died on May 6, 2021 at 79, after he was reportedly discharged two days earlier from the hospital. He was born on May 31, 1942 in Umuomumu, Mbieri, Mbaitoli LGA, Imo, Nigeria, to a native doctor father, Albert Osueke. According to reports, Osueke, who led the church for 22 years as General Superintendent before his retirement in November 2010, was hospitalised following a decline in his health. A website created in his memory stated that the preacher’s father expected him to succeed him in his traditional priesthood. However, he was led to Christ by Deacon Robert Egekwu at 18. From 1988 – 2010, he was the General Superintendent of Assemblies of God Nigeria for 22 years. He made giant strides and positive influence locally and globally. Married to Rev. Mrs. Blessing Osueke, they were blessed with three children and grandchildren. He was the initiator of PENIEL, an annual international convention of the Assemblies of God Nigeria, acquired the AG National Secretariat at Enugu, International Convention/Camp Ground at Okpoto and founded the Evangel University at Akaeze in Ebonyi State, among other numerous achievements. APOSTLE JOHN PAUL OKWOK Apostle Okwok was the General Overseer, Ministry of Life International City Of Life Miracle Centre, founded August 2001 and President of Okwok Global Ministry. He died on May 3, 2021 at 60. According to his biography, he was born of the Annang tribe in southern Nigeria, in the village of Ikot-Imo, near his own village of Ikot-Akwa, of the Okpo-Eto Clan of Obot-Akara Local Government Area of Akwa-Ibom State. His birth was after a long wait by his mother, Elizabeth Paul Okwok, had had two previous children who had both died, a boy in its infancy, and a girl, Mary, at 8. One of his children, Praise Itoro John-Okwo, penned: “I am grateful to God for blessing me with a General like Apostle John Paul Okwok as my father. My dad taught me all he knew and that was Jesus Christ. “Right from my childhood and every opportunity he had to talk to us, it always ended with God being our source and everything! “The five major things he always told us were to Love God, Serve God, Obey God, Trust God and Fear God. That’s where I draw strength from now. The same God that brought my dad this far, He would bring my mum and siblings far too, Amen! My Daddy, a great man!”