Alhaji Sani Yabagi, the National Chairman of Action Democratic Party in this interview with JULIET OYOYO, speaks on the controversy trailing the Electoral Act Bill, insecurity challenges and issues surrounding the 2023 general elections. Excerpts: A lot of people have accused the leadership of your political party, the Action Democratic Party of not taking advantage of the crises in the two major political parties, the PDP and APC in order to reposition your party. How do you respond to this? Well, you can see for yourself, as I do not truly know how much more we can re-strategise. Strategising would mean bringing people together so that you can have a critical mass of Nigerians so that you can have people who can think differently from what is happening now so that, we can follow our path and have credible leadership in the country. And, by coincidence, this is how we have been receiving people from all over the country. This is how we have been traveling all over the place and talking with people. DC-23: Keston Okoro Cautions Aspirants Against Rocking The Boat Convention: APC Leadership At Crossroads Over Zoning As you already know, politics is a social thing and not a mechanical thing where you take this from here and put it there. It does not work that way. It takes a process and you have to be patient about it until you get it right. We are doing our enabling best, we are networking and we are talking to everybody that should be talked to; groups, individuals and anybody that matters and, very soon, we are also going to come up with a synergy which I am sure that you will testify to the fact that, yes, ADP is different, our approach is different but it is going to very effective. That is, for mobilising Nigerians especially in the areas of people registering and getting their PVCs so that they can vote, because, it is not making noise that matters but it is the ability to really vote on the day of elections. The ADP is coming out with a novelty that can and mobilise Nigerians to register with the party and obtain their PVCs and vote. How popular is your party and, do you think it is a credible alternative to the APC and the PDP? Yes, we are. It is about human beings like I said. It is not the noise that they are making or, the crowd that you see there; it is the success and the success in this case is the fact that all of us are witnesses to the fact that these two parties have failed. The PDP swindled Nigerians for 16 years and for 16 years they were doing nothing but stealing the resources of Nigeria. So, the general thought that, by voting against PDP, and bringing in the APC, it would be the solution but, what we have seen today is like jumping from frying pan to fire. In fact, that is what we have in this country today. What has this told you? it has told you that you have the same sect of people moving from one place to the other. That is why we are not looking at people in the PDP or the APC . We are trying to create that critical mass of Nigerians. When you look at it, what is the percentage of Nigerians that are even in politics today, when you compare to the population of over two hundred million people? And, in this two hundred million people, you have a number of them who are interested and looking for a way they can be engaged in effecting the change in the way we do things in this country. POLL This is why we believe that we are the credible alternative. We are the platform that does not have fixations. You will not come and say that you want to contest elections and then, we put many things in your way. No! We allow you to achieve your aspirations. We do not believe or support that. However, in these other parties, they have certain conditions they put and it is something that nobody can change because, it is their culture and the way they do things. You cannot walk into APC or the PDP and think you can pick the ticket to run for the governorship or presidential elections or something like that. It is not possible there but here, it is possible for you to aspire. Anybody can come here if you feel you have what it takes to be President, Governor or Senator and the Federal House of Representatives including anything that you want to aspire to be. We have the platform for you at the ADP. Recently there have been agitations and talks about zoning the presidency to the southern part of the country, precisely, the southeast for fairness. Do you ascribe to this and, what is your opinion? Well, the way I look at it is that, this is a constitutional democracy. Is that not so? It has rules, regulations and processes that are in the constitution; some of them are in our electoral laws. All these people making noise with claims that “it is our turn, that it must be this and that,” that is not the way to go about it. The way to go is to crowd yourself into one political party or the political parties and ensure that, anybody that is going to emerge from the platform of that party is your person. We do not have independent candidates system here yet. We also do not have a system where cultural organizations can bring somebody up on their platform to run for any election. The only institution recognised by the constitution of this country is the political party. So, why go and disturb somebody that he must pick your candidate? You can make all the noise, finish whatever you are doing but, if you are not in that place that they take decisions as to who is going to represent the party, it is a joke. I think there should be less noise but more of actions within the party. This is because, the people that you talk to on the streets, what can they do. if the ADP is going to have its convention to elect their candidates and you are there making noise while you are far away, how do you influence it? In my opinion, zoning or whatever you want to call it, talk to the political parties, get involved and make sure that when they are doing it, that it favours you. The situation that we have today in the country today, is different from what we had in 1999. In 1999, the military was still in charge and they dictated to us that, “if you guys want us to handover, you must pick your candidate from that zone. They did not stop there. It also must be this person otherwise, we will not handover, or if we handover, we will come back again.” Pro-Tinubu Group Plans Symposium, Free Medical Check Bagudu Flags Off LG Poll Campaigns, Restates Commitment To… That is not the situation of today. Where is that person that will say parties must pick their candidates from this person? No, you must go and do what is expected in a democracy; lobby, strategising, engaging the right people and certainly not the man on the streets or the one in a club or cultural organisations. You are simply making noise there. It will amount to nothing at the end of the day. Lastly, the president recently refused to append his signature on the electoral bill sent to him by the national assembly. Some people are of the opinion that it was because of the “direct primaries” and with the parties given choices to choose what they want. What would your political party prefer? We have said it, time without number that, even at the Inter Party Advisory Council, IPAC, restated our position that, we are for what you have just said, “allow parties to decide the system that suits them, to present their candidate to present their candidate to Nigerians. It is in the constitution of this country. And, you cannot wish that away. The question that you should ask yourself is; where in the world where direct primaries are practiced? Tell me the country. Certainly, not in America, Europe, Asian or even in African countries. I do not know the country where direct primary is practiced. Direct primary is a beautiful process in an ideal situation, kind of but it is not practicable. America, with all the money that they have and as the most affluent economy, with the experience that they have and what we are trying to do in just about 22 years or so, they have 250 years experience in democracy or more, are not into direct primaries. They are still practicing in-direct primaries for their elections and this will also be for their next elections. For us here, unless if somebody has something different he wants to achieve, that is why he would be talking of direct primaries for our elections. Somehow, it all seems to be some form a red-herring to divert attention from the main thing or, a booby trap so that the main amendments will not be passed. You can see this playing out even now. This is because, how can the two houses have two different versions of the bill? The Upper Chamber House has the three; “Direct, in-direct and Consensus,” while the Lower House only has “direct and in-direct.” What happened? Were they sleeping? Or, is it that they forgot that there is something called “Consensus” when everybody in the world is standing by what is seen as the most peaceful way of settling these issues.