Everton have signed defender Vitaliy Mykolenko from Dynamo Kyiv for an undisclosed fee with the Ukraine international agreeing a four-and-a-half-year deal until the end of June 2026. The 22-year-old becomes the Blues’ first signing of the January transfer window having impressed at both club and international level in recent years. Ukraine’s leading left-back, Mykolenko has won 21 caps for his country and was a key part of the team which reached the quarter-finals of Euro 2020. Tuchel Laughs Off Questions About Getting The Best From Lukaku Ronaldo Admits He’s “Not Happy” With Man Utd… He featured regularly in Dynamo’s past two Champions League campaigns and was instrumental in his side’s domestic league title triumph in 2020/21. He has also won two Ukrainian Cups with Dynamo. Speaking to evertontv after becoming manager Rafa Benitez’s sixth signing as Blues manager, Mykolenko said: “Moving to Everton is a big and important step in my life. “I have always dreamed of playing in the Premier League. English football is where the game was born and I think that it will suit my game very well. “I am 22 but I don’t feel like a youngster. I have experience of playing at European level and hope I will continue to improve as a player. “I am excited about the opportunity of playing in front of our supporters at Everton. I have seen the last few games at Goodison Park and they were unbelievable. POLL “They are incredible fans to whom I feel great responsibility.” Mykolenko, who can also operate in central defence and as a wing-back, made his Dynamo debut aged just 18, with his consistently high-quality performances seeing him rewarded with a senior international call-up one year later. He quickly established himself as the number one left-back for club and country and shone as Ukraine qualified for Euro 2020 in impressive fashion. Andriy Shevchenko’s team went through their qualifying section unbeaten, finishing top of a group featuring a star-studded Portugal side. Mykolenko went on to start four of Ukraine’s five matches at the European Championship. Mykolenko’s growing status at Dynamo, meanwhile, was underlined when, aged 21, he was named captain for a league game against FC Lviv last season. He made a total of 132 first-team appearances for Dynamo, scoring seven goals and providing 20 assists. Dominic Calvert-Lewin Return ‘Massive’ For Everton –… Aston Villa January Transfer Plans As Gerrard Reveals Busy… Mykolenko added: “I like to play on the front foot and get forward when I can. “Modern football demands that full-backs are able to attack as well as defend. I think I am a versatile defender who can get up and down the pitch. “But I believe desire and commitment are the most important attributes and I will aim to bring those qualities. “I hope it won’t take me too long to settle in and get used to the style of football. “I feel great right now and it is very important for me to communicate with the team, the management and the fans. “For that, I need to learn the language and understand culture of this city, this country and this club. I will do my very best. “I believe here at Everton, with the club’s traditions and ambitions, I will grow as a person and as a player.”