CHINYERE ABIAZIEM LAGOS Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, Vice Chancellor, the University of Lagos (UNILAG), has thanked God for granting him victory during his dark period of dismissal from office. Divine Knowledge, Anti-Dote To All Human Afflictions, Says… Ayorinde Implores Politicians To Discard Do-Or-Die Policy Ogundipe, who exuded joy while delivering his address entitled: ‘I Wish I Can See’, during the university’s 52nd convocation, appreciated supporters that stood by him, believed in him and the prayer warriors across faiths that interceded on his behalf. On Thursday at the final day of the convocation, where the highly rated institution graduated 4,418 at the post graduate level, Ogundipe, a Pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) and professorial assessor to many universities, revealed that he got inspiration for the title of his address while having a chat with some visually impaired students. In an emotional laden tone that got the attention of the audience, Ogundipe shared how some called him and wept over the phone and said they believed in him. He then said he wished he could see all those who held his hands and strengthened him, informing that God fought his battles and handed him victory. Ogundipe, adjudged to be one of the most accessible and amiable UNILAG’s Vice Chancellors, sang a song he is fondly known for, ‘Mo wo ibi ti mo ti bere…’ (I look at where I started from), informing that this would be his last convocation in UNILAG’s Vice Chancellor. POLL His words: “While I do not intend to make this a valedictory address, as I look back on the journey, which began almost five years ago, I cannot but give all the glory back to the Almighty God for the grace He has given me to lead our dear university into a new era of global reckoning… “Just like the visually impaired student, I wish I can see you all my supporters who, despite the abuse and slander, still stood strong by my side; I wish I can see you all my prayer warriors who daily intercede for the success of my administration; I wish I can see you all who genuinely sacrificed their time, efforts and contribute resources to support my agenda of rebranding UNILAG. “I wish I can see you all my cheer leaders to thank you for urging me day-after-day; and I wish I can see you all who never stopped believing in me. I know God can see you all and He will continually bless you with great benefits.” Meanwhile, he congratulated the graduating students, as he enjoined them to make positive impacts in the society and continually make the school proud. “Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, it is my honour to let you know that these 52nd convocation ceremonies will be my last in office as the Vice-Chancellor of the prestigious University of Lagos. Cleric Urges Christians To Shun Immodest Dressing C&S Addressing Long Hours Of Service – Apostle “I say congratulations to the graduating students, you have seen, and you have conquered. Now, we release you into the sure hands of God for His continued guidance of your path. “We are confident in the tradition of excellence by which you have been groomed. What we now expect to hear about you is the good news of your triumphs and positive impacts out there in the world. May your path be sure and full of light,” Ogundipe stated.