For his philanthropic activities via the Enyinna Nwigwe Foundation, Nollywood actor, Enyinna Nwigwe has been conferred with the title ‘Chi Turu Ugo 1’ (One Crowned by God) by the Logara community in Imo State, under the royal headship of HRH Felix .I. Njoku, the Ogaraku II of Logara. The investiture which took place on December 26, 2021, is coming on the heels of the activities of the Enyinna Nwigwe Foundation, ENF, which the actor established to provide succour to less fortunate members of the society. According to information, the activities of the foundation have particularly touched the indigenes of Logara community as they provided palliatives for widows and other indigent members of the society during the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Victoria Inyama Calls Out Female Preacher Over Marriage Sermon Ibadan Poly Alumni Association Charges Buhari On HND/BSc… Expressing his gratitude to indigenes of Logara and their traditional ruler, the actor, who hails from Obiangwu, Ngor Okpala, Imo State, says the honour will motivate him to do more through the foundation. “I feel really honoured. Titles are a big deal in my culture and with purpose, good intentions and a heart for other people, a title grants you a bit more audibility and access. I didn’t really see it coming, but being someone with an open mind to ideas that move and shape conversations, I figured I could really do a lot more for my community and beyond, by being a little more involved. I was made to understand the honour was given based on previous endeavours for the community. “I did some work for the community during the lockdown, which was supported generously by Dangote Group with essential food items. The foundation will not relent. We recently had outreaches in Abuja, where we supported people with wheelchairs and cash donations. This traditional title is a call to do more and with the support of good-spirited individuals all over the world, we will do more for the good of the world we live in. As we start 2022, let us learn to live for one another and dream whatever we want. We will get there,” he said.