ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Monday bursted another drug colony located around the Kubwa-Dutse road interchange. Two suspects were arrested and substance believed to the outlawed Cannabis worth 45kg were also sized by the administration. The sting operation that came immediately the team of FCT Ministerial taskforce on City Sanitation, concluded clean up at the Dutse market, got many passersby talking, because the destroyed drug hideout was situated few metres away from one of the Police stations along that axis. Operation Hadin Kai Troops Neutralize BH/ISWAP, Capture… Anambra: Over 150 Families Protest, Accuse Morticians Of Burning… Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, Comrade Attah Ikharo said the drug colony was exposed by security intelligence, warranting a marching order from FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello for it’s destruction. Ikharo, however, expressed displeasure over the persistent lawlessness activities of some residents, the suspects and the siezed drugs have been handed over the operatives of Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency for further investigation. He hinted that the efforts have been intensified to track down all criminal elements, and everything that constitute security threat, through aggressive monitoring of all parts of Abuja. While lamenting the illegal activities of roadside traders which he said had returned to the Dutse market, after it was tackled some months ago. According to him, the chaotic situation at the Dutse market which the FCTA invested so much resources and time to tackle, was begining to return, due to the compromise of some market Managers and Unscrupulous officials. POLL He described the situation as a ticking time bomb waiting to be detonated, he reiterated the administration’s determination to deal ruthlessly with all contravention and those promoting it. Meanwhile, the Deputy Director , Enforcement of Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) Kaka Bello, said the enforcement team won’t backtrack in it’s mission to restore environmental order to the city. Bello stated that the destroyed drug colony is suspected to be managed by high profile drug syndicate, going by their confidence to peddle drugs in such highbrow area. He added that the illegal activities constituting nuisance, have persisted because the city was large and population growth surging high.