PORT HARCOURT – A frontline politician in Rivers state and a former governorship candidate on two occasions, Prince Tonye Princewill, has posited that the passage of the much-talked-about Electoral Act is not enough to be equated to the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari. Princewill noted that the opportunity of passing the Act has not been lost but “the President’s legacy is bigger than the passage of one bill into law”. He admitted that though the bill is no ordinary bill and granted its passage has the potential to change the landscape of how elections are conducted in the future, “it is my firm belief that the two branches of government (National Assembly and the Executive) under the umbrella of the same party, will reach a consensus because they have the capacity to do so. Russia Sees Record Virus Cases Second Day Running NGOs Demand Justice For 5yr-Old Pupil Murdered By Proprietor “Extracting direct primaries, which I favour, should give us a way forward. Future amendments can tick that box. Like I have said, how we chose our leaders is important. I will go further to say, the cost of doing a direct primary is small in comparison to the cost of flawed primaries when you consider the cost of bad leadership,” he said. Speaking in an interview weekend, the former governorship candidate of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), said that PDP is weak and so cannot win the next Presidential election ahead of APC, adding that the major opposition party is “also prone to a customized implosion of its own, but nobody should ever be underestimated.” He said that Nigerians have very short memories to have forgotten what PDP represents and cut off their nose to spite their face. “I’ve seen men do very strange things, only to regret it later. Besides, powerful men being out of power for eight years can do powerful things like swallowing their own vomit to get back in. “For many, politicians, politics and power is all they know. They can do anything to remain relevant. The other factor to consider is 2023 may not be about the party. It may be about the candidate. If PDP brings a popular candidate, he or she can give the party a new image. The message to us in APC is, do not take Nigerians for granted. And I am so sure, we will not,” he said. On the ambition of the national leader of APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to succeed President Buhari in 2023, Princewill believes that every qualified Nigerian is entitled to run for the number position in the country. POLL “My candidate remains the Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi and I say so, not just because he is from my state because that is not enough. I say so because his track record, his commitment, his energy, his ability to get things done, his age and his ability to reach a consensus over the years, stands him in good stead. “As our speaker, he was the Chair of Speakers, as Governor, he was the Chair of Governors, as Minister, he is the best performing Minister, by far. So as President, I know the trend will continue,” he said.