The newly elected executives of Network of Yobe Civil Society Organizations (NYCSO) have been inaugurated through oath taking to enable them swing into action of steering the affairs of the Network for the period of 3 years. It is saddled with the responsibility of relating between citizens and the government in the State. The Commissioner Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning served as the Chairman of the occasion, he expressed appreciation with the previous success achieved which resulted from the commitment of the civil society’s engagement with government MDAs especially with his Ministry of Budget. Nasarawa Earmarks 2.23bn For Rural  Electrification Emir Of Borgu Inaugurates Committee On Gani Durbar Festival He was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, the Commissioner used the forum to appeal on the newly inaugurated officials to double efforts through serving based on the interest of Yobe populace who gave them the mandate to serve. Earlier speaking in an opening remarks, the Chairman of the Electoral Committee Malam Sheriff Kura described the exercise that ushered the new Executives into various positions as free, fair, credible and peaceful election. He urged the newly sworn-in members to justify the confidence reposed on them by the CSOs/CBOs actors in the State. On his part, the Executive Director of the Network of Yobe Civil Society Organization, Alhaji Baba Shehu cautioned young emerging activist to take full responsibility by reaching out constructively to constituted authorities whenever there is any matter of concern and urged them to shun the habit of confrontation through writing unfactual stories more especially on social media that may end up causing more harm than good. The Executive Secretary of the State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Muhammad Goje congratulated them and encouraged them to keep coordinating a strategic plan that would guide the activaties of SEMA in reaching out to the most vulnerable populace in the State. POLL The Programme witnessed Paper Presentations by Dr. Abdullahi Bula and Dr. Ahmed Karage on Youth Participation and Community Engagement respectively. Many dignataries from INGOs, CSOs, CBOs within the State attended the memorable occasion held at the Summit Conference Hotel Damaturu.