ABUJA – Nigeria needs to begin to take intentional steps towards setting up the implementation process of its National Quality Policy (NQP), newly ratified by the Federal Executive Council, (FEC), in order to accelerate access for agricultural produce in the international market. Simeon Umukoro, Trade Market Access Lead, Nigeria, Department for International Trade, British High Commission gave the advice on the sidelines of the induction of new members of Institute of Agribusiness Management of Nigeria, (IAMN). He noted that the move would enhance Nigeria’s ability to locally certify products to international standards and the alignment with global best practices in terms of standards, stressing that these enablers will only facilitate market access for the country. X-Raying Critical Role Rice Value Chain Plays In Economic… Stakeholders List Gains Of Restricting Forex For Food-Related… He however, emphasized the need for government and the private sector to synergize with the aim of facilitating enabling activities for quality infrastructure that would ensure the nation’s commodities meet what the conditions for market access is globally. “Nigeria needs to begin to do things intentionally to set up the implementation process of its newly ratified by the Executive Council, National Quality Policy (NQP). “NQP speaks to the existence of an accreditation institute in NINAS, the certification bodies both third parties and regulatory related, it speaks to metrology, speaks to inspection and testing services, having alignment with global best practices in terms of standards. “These enablers will only facilitate market access for us because it will enhance our ability to locally certify products to international standards. “This is just what we need, however it is not as easy as said. That is why there is a need for us to collectively come together both government and private sector, government supporting from the policy side, encouraging and incentivising in that direction, and the private sector seeing the opportunities thereof to begin to churn out investments to help enable activities in our quality infrastructure. POLL Other speakers at the event corroborated Umukoro, insisting that the government, the organized private sector, and stakeholders in the agricultural value chain, each have a role to play in ensuring that agribusiness is perfected the way it is supposed to be. Dr. Vincent Isegbeh, Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service reiterated that agriculture is neither social activity, nor developmental project but purely agric business and must be approached in that manner to harness the potentials thereof. According to him, when considered that less farmers in developed countries produce more for their citizens and for export and Nigeria with much more population of farmers hardly produce enough, it becomes obvious that there is a disconnect in development of agriculture in the country which both government and private sector and indeed all stakeholders must collectively work towards addressing. For Professor Oludolapo Bright, Senior Special Assistant to the President, (Agro Allied Value Chain), Nigeria would have started from education to tackle the problems bedeviling the growth of agriculture in the country. According to him, 79 percent of those feeding the nation are illiterates and are used to doing things the way they had learnt, making it difficult to drive change and achieve the required modern ways that would ensure easy acceptance in the international arenas. Despite Neglect, Cocoa Still Nigeria’s Number One Non-Oil Forex… Lagos APPEALS To Enhance Farmers Productivity With Production Of… “The way forward is for us to now look at our education from the cradle up to the university in terms of knowledge. We have got to do things right. We do not do things right in Nigeria. I have visited so many farmers. If we want to do storage, instead of doing proper storage, we look at the easy way out and you cannot blame them because of the fact that they are looking at costs. “I was able to store my petatoe from July till now, and that is because I used some knowledge and spent some money. And a lot of farmers storing petatoe do not do it right. They just spread the petatoe on the floor, number one, you are wasting space, and so on and so forth. There are so many methods that can be used to store petatoe. Look at what I have designed for the onion farmers which I copied from India. Those are the things we have got to be doing. We have got to do things properly but we don’t. But moving forward, is to now look at our education and start from that space to correct things. Also, Hon. Dr. John Abraham Godson, Member of the Polish Parliament, and Goat Farmer in Nigeria, harped on training and retraining of the nation’s ordinary farmers on modern agricultural management. Dr. Godson, who lived more than 25 years in Poland, promised to organise strategic trainings in collaboration with the Institute, in the area of livestock management. “When it comes to livestock management, I am among three biggest goat dealers in Nigeria. So I would especially work towards improving modern goat management in the country. “I think the role of the Institute is very strategic because one of the problems we have in Nigeria is low capacity, that some of the small holder farmers do not have the knowledge when it comes to modern agricultural practices and it is the role of the Institute to build capacity so that we would see the desired improvement in agribusiness. I shall endeavour to contribute my quota in building the capacity of the ordinary farmers to begin to produce better,” he said.