Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, lawmaker representing Niger East Senatorial District in the National Assembly is one of the frontline candidates for the national chairmanship position of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with journalists, he speaks on his plans for the party ahead of the 2023 general elections if elected and other issues. Excerpts: Don’t you think sacrificing your senatorial seat for the seat of the APC National Chairmanship would be a huge disservice to your constituency? No, it is not a disservice to my constituents. I tell you, it is a sacrifice to make. This country a great country and it is from the selection of leadership that you can make the country work. We are living witnesses since the inception of the 4th Republic in 1999. Has every Nigerian been able to achieve his aspiration through the ballot box? So, the sacrifice I am making is for me to go and contribute to change the narratives, the trajectory of what used to be. We have what we called the books of law. The books are there. The party manifesto, the guidelines. We create the guidelines and then we don’t want to abide by the guidelines. I want to see to the implementation of what would guide us in what we want to do as we follow the constitution. I want to assure you that if we do that we would make our leaders accountable to the people. You elect us with your votes for the good of this country and that is why I believe that we should aspire to be chairman of this great party that would create the platform for the party to be an institution of its own, that will give Nigerians the best and qualitative leadership. Why not? It is even a larger sacrifice, a larger contribution to my constituents. ‘2023: Ethnic Conflict, Violence, Others Must Be Resolved For… Armed Forces Remembrance Day: FG Orders Closure Of Abuja Roads What is the disposition of your state governor towards your chairmanship aspiration? My governor is the Chairman of the North Central Governors’ Forum. He is also representing the zone in the CECPC. Don’t you think it will be a kind of conflict of interest for my governor to come out loudly just as one of his colleagues has done? If I am in his position like the other colleagues, I would do the same thing if somebody is there from my place. As far as I am concerned, I have communicated with him; I have seen my governor; we have sat three times on this issue. The issue of whether he endorses me or he doesn’t endorse me shouldn’t even arise. Would he prefer to have somebody from outside than his own? So, I will tell you, I have the support of my governor and my governor at the right time would make a statement. It would be improper for somebody who is a member of the CECPC to even before the pronouncement of the zoning and who happens to be part of those to decide it, come out to make the statement. These are some of the things this country needs to correct. I don’t think it is wise for us to always personalise matters of institutions like this in a political party. It is just like being a governor and then I want my son to be a Minister even before the President decides who will be a Minister. Won’t that be a conflict of interest? Would the aspiration of Nigerians be better achieved that way? No. My governor’s position for now is okay. This is the same thing he did when I was coming out for the Senate. So, when we get to that bridge we will cross it. With the imposition of direct primary on political parties by the National Assembly, ahead of the National Convention of the party, will you advise the party to adopt the use of direct primary? POLL Whatever the law says is what the party should abide by. We should be governed by the rules. And whatever the rules are, we should follow. But I need to clarify this notion – the National Assembly is not imposing on the political parties. I happen to be a member of the Harmonisation Committee and I knew what the interest of each member was. Yes, they say the majority can always have their way but the minority would always have their say. What are your chances in this race and what is your take on the theory that the party chairmanship seat be reserved for aspirants from the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) background? I will first and foremost speak about my chances. My chances are very bright. You and I are Nigerians. You may be a member of the APC or not but if allowed to choose terms of quality, in terms of precedence and antecedents of one, I am the best candidate. There is a need for the right leadership for the party. I have a lot of chances. I have interacted with so many party stalwarts. I did not make too much noise about this. But I believe that if there is a dark horse to beat in this race, whoever that is, is for you to make your calculations. I have met with the majority of the APC governors. I have travelled to their states. I have reached out to 262 members of the APC in the House of Representatives, about 62 members of the APC in the Senate, I have communicated with them. I am sending a communication to all the APC members in the states Houses of Assemblies. Recently, someone asked why do I have to do all these things when this is going nowhere since somebody would say this is where it should go? I said it doesn’t matter. I will sell myself everywhere. When the chips are down, we will know. I am not calling for any assistance but there will be a time people would say they need the best, and this is the leadership that will lead them and I will tell you I belong to that category of leaders. Tokunbo Toriola Honors 11 Participants At The 3rd Edition Of… FG Appoints Paschal-Ejiogu As NSIA Non-Executive Director About the legacy parties, what I know today is we have APC and what I know today as legacy is the only legacy President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to lay for this country. And that is what we will pursue. We will try as much as possible when we are given the opportunity to lead, we will provide the best architecture. How we can take care of the security of this country; how we can provide education; how we can provide agricultural implements to catch up with the rest of the world. How we can provide those basic things and ensure that the infrastructure development policy of this administration is sustained because governance is a continuum. I believe I have all it takes to see to it that it benefits everybody. I have three things going for me. I believe in my conviction as a human being to go with everybody. If I stand and somebody else become victorious I go with him. I will give him 100 per cent support for the benefit of the party and Nigerians. We have had the legacy parties ANPP, CPC and ACN and a faction of APGA. The first three parties are defunct parties. What we now have is APC. Some people say my group was there before. What work have they done to win the heart of party supporters? So it is not an issue. The party is not divided into mine or yours. This party belongs to all of us and I believe that we will be in a position to bring everyone on board. You were almost a victim of the alleged imposition of candidates when Comrade Adams Oshiomhole held sway, how can we remedy the situation? Every organisation has its rules and those rules are meant to be obeyed. Even in the civil service, there are rules on how you conduct yourself as a civil servant. So, it is with the NGOs and the political parties. They are entities and not owned by one person. They are owned by all. So, when you don’t follow the rules in accordance with how the books have made it, definitely there will be rancour. Before you even venture to be a member of the party, before you even venture to think of aspiring for any position in the party, you must have gone through the constitution or guidelines of the party. When there is no respect for law and order, there will be rancour. Somebody would feel aggrieved and will seek redress. I was a victim and as a Nigerian who felt aggrieved, I believed that there was a wrong done and we should be able to correct the wrong. If I happen to be a victim and I went all the way from the High Court to the Supreme Court to get a judgement, is it every Nigerian that can afford to go that way? So we must do the right thing. If we continue not to do the right thing, we will remain where we are. Once you attach personal interest you have a problem. I am not telling you I am a saint, a perfectionist. No. What I am saying is if you believe consciously in what you want to do because somebody will look at it and scrutinise it, do it. You don’t need to care about what a few people will say. If I become the chairman of this party, I will bring out some guidelines. This is the way we want to go. Even in the United States, it happens. For example, that was how Barrack Obama emerged as President. What are the roles of the Kennedys? But what do you do? You do it diplomatically, in a decent way. What is that decent way? We are all in a hall and these are all contestants for a local government chairman or a House of Assembly.