. HURIWA Kicks, Warns NASS Against Derailing Nigeria’s Democracy ABUJA: Presiden Muhammadu Buhari has been accused of nominating Prof. Rhoda H. Gumus, an alleged card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as INEC National Commissioner for Bayelsa State. This is coming approximately seven months after the National Assembly declined to confirm a similar nomination. 2023: Be Interested In Who Succeeds You, Ohaneze Tells Buhari Transport Sector Bill: Senate Refuses To Override Buhari President Buhari had in 2020 nominated his Personal Assistant on New Media, Lauretta Onochie, who however was rejected by the Senate following public outcry. In a petition to the leadership of the National Assembly, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) alleged that the nomination of Prof. Gumus was in breach of the provisions of the 1999 Constitution and the Electoral Act. It also explained “that one of the factors that have compromised the credibility of elections in Nigeria is said to be the lack of structural independence of INEC. This was one of the main issues taken up by the Electoral Reform Committee in 2007. You would recall that among the recommendations that the Committee made was the necessity for guaranteeing the independence of INEC, both through the way that the Commission is funded and through the appointment process for its members. “Beyond this, Prof. Gumus’ confirmation by this 9th Senate will be a violation of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Constitution specifically declares that appointees to the electoral body must be non-partisan and also not a card-carrying members of any political party. POLL Specifically, Section 14(2a) of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution as amended states that “a member of the commission shall be non-partisan and a person of unquestionable integrity. “And Section 14(3b) of the same Schedule states that “there shall be for each state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja, a Resident Electoral Commissioner who shall be a person of unquestionable integrity and shall not be a member of any political party.” This, however, directly applies to members appointed as Resident Electoral Commissioners. “While preceding paragraphs empower the president to make appointments and the Senate to make confirmations, 3b, demands that the integrity of an appointee must not be in question. “More so, Section 152 of the Electoral Act, provides that; “No person holding an elective office to which this act relates or a registered member of a Political Party shall be eligible for or be appointed to carry out duties of a returning officer, an electoral officer, the presiding officer or Poll Clerk. The interpretation of these Sections of the law raises questions as to whether it was considered before the nomination of Prof. Gumu was made. As a card-carrying member of the ruling party or any other party for that matter, Prof Rhoda H. Gumus is unfit for the position she is nominated for, a role reserved for an unbiased umpire.” AFCON: Ban Buhari From Speaking To Nigerian Athletes, To Avoid… Insecurity: Terrorists Will Be Crushed, Buhari Assures Nigerians While stating that the confirmation of Gumus “will set the stage for a very huge political crisis, which is capable of derailing the country’s democratic process,” HURIWA disclosed that if the National Assembly confirms the nominee, “it will constitute a direct violence against the relevant laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the independence of INEC, the Senate is hereby called upon to reject this nomination.” “Let it be on record that we are neither in any way against the person of Prof. Rhoda Gumus nor questioning her integrity. Rather our concern is for the Senate to ensure that any such appointment capable of derogating from the impartiality of INEC is never made. As such, the senate should see it as a concern that when constituting an umpire for elections, anything that can diminish public confidence in INEC must be avoided. “Consequently, the Senate, if it’s really made up of democrats, is called upon to reject this nomination or we will be left with no other option but to rally Nigerians to pour out on the streets to protest this brazen illegality to demolish constitutional democracy through insider political compromises. “Additionally, we are calling on the Nigerian Senate to investigate all of the other nominations by the President especially as there are concerns that some of these nominations may have been by self-serving interests. “We insist that it is never late to deal with any electoral commissioner who presents a likelihood of bias as it is important for Nigeria that the composition of INEC is transparently non-partisan and independent of partisan political manipulation,” the human writers group stated.