LAGOS  – On his official trip outside Lagos, the billboard which stood tall in front of the Deeper Life International Conference Centre on the Lagos Ibadan Expressway got John’s attention not for the aesthetics alone, but also for the faces, including that of Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, printed boldly on it. John did not get the details of the programme as he was on motion until days later when he came across the flyer online and wondered within himself if it was the same Deeper Life Bible Church (DLBC) he attended with his parents in his childhood up to his teen years. He was surprised seeing, for the first time, the picture of a woman, with uncovered hair, jewellery and make-up being promoted as one of the guests for a programme organised by the church. The Unquestionable And Compassionate God That Needs To Be Served Acts Of The Prophets (5) He could not keep it to himself as he quickly forwarded the flyer to his brother, Robert, who replied that the youth programme, tagged ‘IMPACT’, had caused a stir and online buzz with claims that the church was lowering the holiness standard it was known for and that the founder, Pastor William Kumuyi, wanted to destroy the church before his departure. While a section believed that Awosika’s case was pronounced because of the church’s active engagement on social media, unlike the days when personalities outside the Deeper Life Bible Church were given opportunities to speak, including late Prof. Dora Akunyili and Oby Ezekwesili. Some also said that the General Superintendent (GS), Kumuyi, who convened the programme, cared less about his prestige and what critics would say as he was not looking back in leading the church to spread the gospel and transit from conservatism for which the church was known. The GS, according to some persons, had been taking deliberate steps in making amends before leaving the earth, as he announced years ago that he would uproot some man-made doctrines making the youths fear man instead of God and making the church shallow instead of being deeper. However, in the recent past, he had been shoving away segregation and ensuring youths got well positioned by learning secrets of success from experts that made and are still making impacts in the society, some of his followers said. POLL There is the view that having some gospel musicians like Nathaniel Bassey, Don Moen, Bob Fitts and Dunsin Oyekan (whom the GS adopted as his son at IMPACT as widely reported) minister at programmes organised by the church, was another way of embracing modern realities and attracting the younger populace. The convener, Kumuyi, who assured that the programme was to provide solution to myriads of challenges young people had been facing, said it was time for teenagers, campus students and young adults to thrive and not just survive, adding, “It’s time for them to thirst for God and not just live ordinary lives.” While responding to the criticism of the church lowering its standard on the choice of speakers invited at IMPACT, he stated: “I think it depends on what you’re looking at. If you’re looking at something just ‘Deeper Life’, you will go in this direction. But, if you are looking at people who have made it in life, not just (in terms of) money, popularity, fame – there are people that have reputation, but not character, others have character, but are not well known. “So, let’s say for example I need a Chemistry teacher to teach some young people, I will not be looking at ‘is he a member of Deeper Life or not?’ Does he agree with me and dots every I or crosses every T for me?’ No. I will be looking at someone who knows the subject, the students, who knows how to connect with those young people and who can impact on them and make them to love that subject and give them tips that will make them even greater than himself in that field. “The people who might say that we are lowering standards and all that, number one, they do not know the calibre of people we have invited, so they judge them on their own little understanding of who these people are and some of them have not even taking the effort to…if you go on the web, the internet you can check out their profiles and see who they are. Maybe they just saw their pictures and they said ‘This is not my kind of person’ and because they think we are compromising. You know in a country with freedom of speech, you are allowed to say what you want to say. Rather than being angry with them, we would love them to come to a place like this and see what is going on.” Delisting Nigeria From Religious Violators’ List Political… Remembering God’s Generals Who Answered The Last Call In 2021 Awosika, immediate-past chairman of First Bank of Nigeria, who spoke on leadership and godliness, urged participants to willingly hand over their journey in life to God in order to become a vessel for the accomplishment of divine assignment. Born a Muslim, she recalled how she became a Christian few months to her wedding at the age of 28. She noted that good leadership entails doing what is right, adding that a Christian has gained nothing if his or her leadership position takes away the opportunity to preach Christ. “I didn’t come this far by choosing to just do things anyhow. There are some people who get to high positions by doing things anyhow… It is not about the journey, it is not about temporal position, but about how you finish. So, how do you want to finish? I am certain that I will finish well. My journey is based on the word of God and purpose for my life,” she stated. “Leadership in God’s dictionary is service; to benefit lives for God… Not going into leadership like a big man…A God-like leader can sit in any office but with humility. You know office is nothing, one day you are there, one day you are not. “Your impact while in the office is what will remain. If you are a leader with the heart of God you will not steal the money meant for the roads people are to ply, you will not steal money meant for hospitals,” she added. Aboyeji Iyinoluwa, co-founder of Andela and former managing director of Flutter wave, who queried where the society is the way it is despite many Christians, spoke on ministry outside the four walls of the church. He gave three principles of making impacts as: building in secret and being willing to walk in obscurity for a long time, building depths through real marketable skills, networks and thirdly building with others. “You are praying for breakthroughs for yourself but you do not understand that when God gives you breakthroughs He attaches he attaches purpose to it. God makes provisions because of the assignments for the provisions…We have to be conditioned to build for others,” he partly stated. Other speakers included Prof. Samuel Gowon Edoumiekumo, Vice Chancellor, Niger Delta University and Chairman, Committee of Vice Chancellors; Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju, Council Chairman of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Ogun State and Prof. Olukayode Oyediran, Professor of Construction Economics at Department of Quantity Surveying at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). Meanwhile, participants at the five-day global youth convocation, which ended last Sunday, January 9, have continued to express appreciation to the GS. “My Daddy, heaven is applauding you for the great impact you are making, you shall never lose your reward sir for righting the wrong. You are leaving a church who (that) is ready to meet with other believers in heaven. You are breaking the bounds because; the church of Christ is one. God bless you our dear daddy,” Olufunmilola Adegbite stated on Facebook page. “I told myself I wasn’t going to remain the same after ‘Impact.’ After all the knowledge the speakers dished out, the amazing worship. And the powerful decrees Papa made into our lives. It will be an error to remain the same. I keep praying that all I got at Impact will show in my life,” an Instagram user, ehinomenakhidue said. “I was greatly blessed at Impact. Thank you so much Sir for being a blessing to our generation,” another Instagram user, mayakiesther, stated. Also, a Facebook user, Ade Ewumi, who commented on the post IMPACT discussion, shared: “Baba Kumuyi’s latter years are greater than his former. I believe that this is a great blessing of God upon a faithful servant over the years…”