AKURE  – A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Mayowa Akinfolarin, has commended efforts of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in securing the state from external inva­sion by criminals. He stated this while ex­pressing his satisfaction with the way people’s lives and property were being protected by the state gov­ernment through the State Security Network, other­wise known as Amotekun Corps, in collaboration with other security agen­cies in the state. The federal lawmaker stated that the governor and Chief Security Offi­cer of the state, had truly lived up to the expectations of the people in the area of security in the state and the South West in general. UAMC Holds 80th Annual Conference Another Two Killed In Serial Herders’ Attack On Benue Community Akinfolarin recalled that when the governor emerged the winner of the gubernatorial election, he promised the people of the state that he would ensure that he left no stone un­turned in providing con­ducive environment across the 18 local government ar­eas of the state. The legislator, repre­senting Odigbo, Oke-Igbo, Ile-Oluji federal constit­uency, Ondo State at the Green Chamber, noted that the investment of Governor Akeredolu in protecting the people and sustaining the security architecture of the state must be commended by all. Describing the state’s investment in security as one of the most valuable achievements of Gov­ernor Oluwarotimi Ak­eredolu-led administra­tion, Akinfolarin said the governor’s commitment to Amotekun Corps had gone a long way in allaying fears of residents of any exter­nal invasion. He said: “What Gover­nor Oluwarotimi Akeredo­lu (SAN) has done in the area of security in the state is one which will definitely be talked about for many years to come. “He rose to the occasion when the people neede) is the kind of leader any state will love to have. When there were high cases of insecurity everywhere, the governor took the bull by the horn and he did the needful. POLL “Even when he was sternly opposed by some high ranking people in power, he did not succumb. Instead, he rose like a true leader that he is and gal­lantly fought the battle and the result is what we have here with us today and that is Amotekun Security Net­work.”