ABAKAKILI – Ebonyi youths, non-indigenes resident in the State have declared support for Governor David Umahi in his bid to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Their reasons for the endorsement include the Governor’s inclusive, non-discriminatory administration, more so his empowerment of youths, women within the years he has led Ebonyi State as their third elected civilian Governor. Ebonyi State Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Chief Charles Akpu- Enika in a press conference in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital yesterday, said Ebonyi the youths had never had the kind of attention and empowerment given to them by the Umahi-led administration. Akala Was Passionate About Oyo, Ogbomosoland – Oyo PDP Suspension Of Twitter In Nigeria Paid Off, Keyamo Tweets Akpu-Enika, a second term Commissioner who hails from Anambra State explained that though he is not an indigenous Ebonyi man, he among many such others had been appointed into various positions of trust by Umahi, “we have appointees of the government drawn from across Nigeria, from the North, West and of course from the Eastern region”. He said that such detribalized leader with the Midas Touch needed to reposition Nigeria and sustain its unity is most suited for the presidency come 2023, “Umahi has appointees from all religious sections, tribes and gender.” The Sports Commissioner noted that the coincidence of Umahi’s day of declaration intent for the presidency with the victory of Nigerian Super Eagles against the Pharaohs of Egypt should not be taken for granted, “it is not for nothing for discerning minds, we need to join hands to ensure that this David of our time wins the Goliaths of today”. He said all the applauds had been on Umahi’s infrastructure development, “but I tell you the impact of his programmes in the area of empowerment, directly on the people mean much more to some of us. They equal the applauded flyover projects, roads network, the Ecumenical Centre, International Airport because people have been empowered to become self-sustaining”. Akpu-Enika said Umahi has remained firm on strategies tailored to combating the menace of “unknown gunmen” in the South Eastern region for which reason there had been appreciable containment of the situation, “in the heat of violent agitations for secession, he deployed diligence, tolerance and wisdom to stem the tide. Such is a man we need to lead Nigeria as its President at this point in time”. POLL He noted that having kept close tabs on President Buhari and his administration Umahi, unarguably would build on the good record of Buhari to improve the human and infrastructure advancement of Nigeria.