The coordinator of Christ Apostolic Church, Babalola Memorial International Miracle Camp, Ikeji, Osun State, Prophet Sam Olu Alo has admonished the Federal Government to consult widely on the planned removal of fuel subsidy. Although, Prophet Alo, who is the planter of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) Grace of Mercy Prayer Mountain Adamimogo Outreach, said “There is no sin in the removal of fuel subsidy, he, however, cautioned the government to think deeply on how the removal would be implemented. He noted that fuel is also costly in most of the developed or less developed countries he had visited, but people there are not complaining because they see good roads, jobs, water, electricity provided by the government with their money. Subsidy Removal: N5,000 To 40 Million Nigerians Can’t… Fuel Subsidy Removal, Pump Price Hike Not Solution To… “If this is happening in Nigeria, people will not resist the move to remove the fuel subsidy”. The cleric who spoke during the first service of at the camp said the decision to be paying 5,000 naira to some category of people after subsidy removal may not work if people’s views are not sought. Alo also admonished all Nigerians to love one and another, fear God first and continue to see the project Nigeria as theirs to ensure peace and harmony in the country. ” But I heard they had resolved to be giving 5000 naira stipend to the people. They need to come to the round table with the people to discuss better things to spend the money on that will be of benefit to all. “If they just unilaterally decided that money will be shared to people, it will only increase their sufferings. What can 5000 naira buy in our market today. POLL “There must be a dialogue or an agreement on whether it should be used for construction of train tracks connecting all states of the federation,  farmers, business owners will benefit and employment will be created for youth. It could also be used for security, roads construction and electricity. “It must be attached to a particular project and backed by law, so that, it will be used for the purpose it is meant for”. Alo said his Adamimogo outreach is set to stage its annual 9-day revival, Mercy Once Again with the theme “New Name” holding in Akure, Ondo State on 8-16 January 2022. He would be ministering alongside, President CAC worldwide, Pastor S.O Oladele, General Superintendent, CAC worldwide, Pastor E.O Odejobi, CAC General Evangelist Prophet Hezekiah Oladeji and gospel singer like Evang. Lady Evang. Bukola Akinade, Evang Remilekun Amos and Evang Elijah Akintunde among others. Charging all Nigerians to believe and have faith in their ethnic group, language, and the country at large, he said things will be okay alright if such spirit is imbibed. FG To Give Nigerians N5,000 Monthly Transport Grant After… PDP Guber Aspirant Commends FG Over Fuel Subsidy Removal ” I am a Yoruba man, my belief is that is shall be well with Yoruba, Hausa, Ibo, other ethnic groups and Nigeria at large because God has blessed this country with human and natural resources but we are lagging behind because we have a visionary leader as we had them at the inception of our nationhood. This is why we are not being fulfilled. “It means if we failed to do it ourselves nobody would help us out. The mind of God for us is love. We all must help this country in our prayers including those agitating for Yoruba and Biafra nation and self-determination. “If God gives good leaders, we will all enjoy them irrespective of where we came from. It is people within Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa or from any other group that would be elected political leaders not that leaders will be imported from outside our communities to lead us. What we lack is love and fear of God”