LAGOS – Pastor Peters Osawaru Omoragbon, National Conscience Party (NCP) governorship candidate in Edo State in 2016 and 2020 elections, has petitioned against Justice M. Liman of the Federal High Court, Kano Division at the National Judicial Council (NJC), Abuja. Liman was formerly of the Federal High Court, Lagos Division before he was moved to the Kano division of the court. The petition, according to Omoragbon, was based on what he termed alleged misconduct and dereliction of duty by the judge. Says Ortom Had No Hand In Selection Of Ochi’Idoma -CPS 2023: APC Working On One Lie That Will Return PDP To Power… The content of his petition which he presented to journalists in Lagos on Monday at a briefing read: “A case of misconduct and dereliction of duty against Honourable Justice M. Liman of the Federal High Court, Kano Division, formerly of the Federal High Court, Lagos Division, dated January 3, 2022, by Pastor Peters Omoragbon, Gubernatorial Candidate of the National Conscience Party at the 2020 Edo State Governorship Elections.” Omoragbon disclosed that what transpired over “The National Conscience Party instituted an Independent legal dispute against INEC and the AG of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on May 5, 2020, through Originating Summons with an Affidavit of Urgency. This case was not heard until October 13, 2020, where all the parties adopted their written submissions and judgement reserved till December 18, 2020. “Even though the bureaucratic bottlenecks constituted a stumbling block to my aspiration as Governor in the Edo State Elections, I was very hopeful that no matter the undue delay, justice would eventually be served. “It must be recalled that prior to the Edo State governorship elections in 2020, INEC had ignominiously deregistered some political parties, including the NCP. “This led to a series of legal disputes against the INEC and judgement awarded against INEC, some of which are pending rulings at the Supreme Court.” POLL “As at today January 3, 2022, the ruling that was to be given on December 18, 2020, is yet to be delivered by Justice M. Liman,” Omoragbon lamented. Omoragbon maintained that Justice Litman’s action was a deliberate act of dereliction of duty, adding, “I am constrained by circumstances beyond my control to call this press conference over the deliberate act of dereliction of duty by Honourable Justice M. Liman over the legal dispute instituted by our party, the National Conscience Party, against INEC and the Attorney General of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said it was in the light of the obvious challenge that he directed his legal team to petition against Justice. He stressed: “It was in the light of this abuse of office that I directed my legal team led by Barrister Marcus Eyarhono, to formally petition against Justice M. Liman at the National Judicial Council NJC over his dereliction of duty.” Omoragbo said Nigeria was becoming a laughing stock due to what he called lack of transparency in the current administration. Osun 2022: Wole Oke Urges PDP Stakeholders To Embrace Peace Religious Group Gives Aregbesola, Oyetola 7 Days To End Feud He said: “Every day, Nigeria is made a laughing stock by other nations of the world by our lack of transparency and corruption in high places. “Whose interest is being served by the inaction of Justice M. Liman, if not that of INEC and by extension, the Attorney General of the Federation? “When will the Nigerian judiciary be separated from the executive branch?” he queried. While displaying the certified copies of the petition, he urged the media to hold every arm of government accountable. He stressed: “May I end this press briefing by imploring the media to please, hold every branch of government accountable, from the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary.”