JOS – Chairman of the Governing Council of the Federal Polytechnic Ny’ak, Shendam, Plateau State Engr. Sistus Ukelina Abetienbe has declared that new students will be admitted by the end of the year 2022 as the Polytechnic takes off at the temporary site donated by the Plateau State Government. The Chairman stated this when Members of the Governing Council paid a courtesy visit to Governor Simon Bako Lalong at the Government House, Little Rayfield Jos as part of their working visit to the State. He praised Governor Lalong for not only seeing to the establishment of the Polytechnic, but also making sure that the institution is granted large parcel of land, very big and suitable temporary facility with quality infrastructure for take-off, planned provision for basic infrastructure such as power, water, and access road  to the permanent site among others. Dennis Osadebay University To Commence Academic Activities In… Sanwo-Olu, Others Shower Encomiums On UNILAG VC At Book… Engr. Sistus said the institution was fortunate to have been established during the administration of Governor Lalong who is not only passionate about education, but very interested in partnering with the Federal Government to provide educational opportunities for his people. He disclosed that the Institution will give strength to courses in areas that Plateau has strong advantage such as tourism, agriculture and mining among others. Governor Lalong while welcoming the delegation, said he was eager to ensure that the Polytechnic commences operations because so much efforts have  been put in by various stakeholders to bring the dream of the school to fruition. He said that was why the Government did not hesitate to donate one of the Legacy Schools, the Model Secondary School Ny’ak, which has large infrastructure for the take off of the institution. He expressed his determination to ensure that the Institution commences operations and develops to gives quality education to citizens of Plateau State and other Nigerians. POLL Governor Lalong congratulated the Governing Council for their appointment, and again expressed appreciation to the President, Minister of Education and the National Assembly for approving the Institution, saying there is high hope that the Federal College of Education Pankshin will soon be upgraded to a University of Education once the President signs the bill before him into law. Rector of the Polytechnic Dr. Mikaila Zakari Ya’u said the efforts of Governor Lalong has made the task of commencing academic activities of the school very seamless.