The Southern and Middle Belt Alliance (SAMBA) has described the silence by Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State after the gruesome killings of 13 people in Southern Gombe, his state as nonchalant, callous, and unbecoming of a good leader. The group made the call while condemning the killing of the people in some communities in Tal, Banganje and Kalmai Districts, Billiri LGA, Southern Gombe State by suspected Fulani herdsmen. The Group in a statement berated Governor Yahaya stating that it, construed his silence to mean a sign of nonchalance and disdain towards the loss of innocent lives whom he swore to protect. Boko Haram Abduct Mobile Police Officers In Borno Bayelsa Farmers Lament Destruction Of Farms By Open-Grazing… That security agencies failed to arrest the perpetrators of these killings in Southern Gombe is a clear sign of incompetence on the part of the Governor. SaMBA, therefore, appeals to the conscience of members of the security agencies to fish out these killer-herdsmen in Southern Gombe. “As the governor is aware, these attacks occurred just one week after an Intelligence Report by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence (NSDC) was leaked to the public, that Fulani herdsmen had a secret meeting within Yamaltu terrain in Yamaltu -Deba Local Area and shared kola nut among themselves in preparation for the attack on the aforementioned locations in Billiri Local Government Area. “Following this leak, Samuel Wabulari, the Gombe State Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, quickly denied the viral memo which suggested that Fulani herders had prepared to launch an attack on Billiri Local Government Area. ” It is of grave concern that few days after that memo was leaked to the public, attacks were carried out in Tal, Banganje and Kalmai Districts, Billiri LGA, Southern Gombe State by suspected Fulani herdsmen. POLL “Based on reports received so far, the names of the 13 people killed in Billiri communities are Paul Ambore, Titus Marwa (Kolokkwannin Village); Nitte Kada, Zayo (Ayaba Village); Ibrahim Alhamis, Nitte Buba (Poshulte Village); Silas Shirwa (Pokuli Village); Nadab Na’aman (Prison Service officer on Christmas break, Popandi village); Biryam Jeji, Buba Akadaya, Jacob Piyau Kwakbente, RSM Jonathan Dale (rtd) (Kalmai District) and Samaila Daulu Banganje District. “Those injured were Salom Gideon, Samkong Samuel Bataliya, Julius Samuel, Paris Bitrus, Baba Lamido Kwarau, and Richard Iliya. “Against this backdrop, SaMBA is gravely concerned regarding the silence, the inaction and nonchalance of the Executive Governor of Gombe State to the killings going on in Billiri Local Government Area. The Governor should be called to order; his attitude is not in sync with the conduct expected of anyone occupying the highest office of Gombe State,” the statement read.