OSOSGBO – The Osun State government has commenced the dredging of streams and waterways in twenty-five local government areas of the State. The dredging exercise would be carried out on major streams and mini rivers that are prone to incidents of flooding across the state. In 2021 NIMET forecast showed that seventeen local government areas of Osun State would experience flooding but was curtailed through the measure put in place by the State government as it occurred only in four local government areas. Don’t Turn Osun To Battle Ground, IPAC Cautions Parties No Plan To Strike Deal With Ademola Adeleke-Ogunbiyi Flagging off the dredging exercise in Edunabon, a town in Ife North local government, the Special Adviser to the Governor on sanitation and environment, Rufus Oyegbile said the exercise is a proactive measure preparatory to rainy season when incidents of flooding are experienced. He disclosed that the dredging is being done by the State Government in collaboration with the State chapter of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON). He noted that the Olumesi stream dredging in Edunabon is the fourth to be executed by the government. “It is to prevent havoc of incessant flooding as we do have warnings from nimet and so we follow the forecast, and Mr Governor with ALGON decided this dry season dredging so that we can have qualitative and quantitative dredging, the width can be widened and the depth can be dug. “The essence is to make most of our streams and mini rivers to take large chunk or volume of water so that loss of life and property will not occurs again,” Oyegbile explained. POLL The lawmaker representing Edunabon State Constituency at the House of Assembly, Hon. Olatunde Olatunji said the fact that the flag off took place in Edunabon shows that the Governor places so much value on his constituency and the State at Large. He added that the Governor has made his job as a representative of the people of the constituency easier for him in facilitating development and life impacting projects to the area. “Being a government that is responsible and responsive, and want life to be bearable for the people is why Governor Gboyega Oyetola is embarking on such a project like this. We can see that most of the property along this waterways have been abandoned. “The last time a project like this was done is almost a decade, so I m excited that today we are witnessing the dredging of Olumisi river, and once it is completed, I m sure things will return to normalcy and people can reclaim the property they have abandoned and it will have ripple effect on the economy of the area. The Osun State Chairman of ALGON, Hon. Samuel Idowu said “this dredging happens to be the 4th in the series and it is targeted towards eradicating flooding in the entire state. It is in preparation for avoiding floods when the rainy season comes. So, it is a good development and the people must give kudos to the Governor. Fulfill Your Electoral Promises To Us, Ifon-Orolu Community… Four Inmates Killed In Osun Jailbreak Attempt Speaking, some residents of Edunabon including the Osolo of the town, the youth leader among others lauded the gesture and appreciated the Governor, the ALGON and the lawmaker representing the constituency for counting them among those who benefited in the project.