MAKURDI – Lassa fever may have claimed the lives of three persons in Benue state among them a medical doctor, Dr. Samuel Nyityo, who was a staff of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Benue state. However, the State Commissioner for Health, Joseph Nbgea stated that the hospital has only recorded the death of one person (Dr. Nyityo) who lost his life to the disease on Sunday. Daily Independent sources at the Benue State University Teaching Hospital (BSUTH) however reiterated that two other persons, apart from the doctor also died of Lassa fever. Sagamu-Benin Road Accident Claims Mother, Two Daughters 30 Test Positive For Lassa Fever In Bauchi We also gathered that the doctor who took ill in Benue was referred to Irrua specialist hospital, Edo state where he died, while the other two had died sometime last week. As at the time of compiling this report at about 4:30 pm on Monday, Daily Independent learned that one patient was referred to Irrua specialist hospital, while the other is still at the BSUTH; both are in stable condition. But the State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Joseph Ngbea insisted that Dr. Nyityo was the only person that has died of Lassa fever in the state. He also said that the other patient that has contacted the disease has been hospitalised and is receiving treatment at the BSUTH and is in stable condition. Dr. Ngbea said, “Only Dr Nyityo died. Nobody is in critical condition; the other person is in a stable condition.” POLL On what the state was doing to contain the situation, he said, “Before the diagnosis of Lassa fever in the state, the Governor (Samuel Ortom) released money to the Ministry to ensure that it (disease) is contained and even after the diagnosis, we made sure they were put in isolation center. “He (Governor) went to WHO office to take over the payment (of the treatment) but they (WHO) said they had released money for the purchase of drugs worth N600,000 to be given to anybody who contacts the disease and to ensure that anybody who contacts the disease should be taken to the BSUTH within 20 minutes.” Dr. Ngbea’s advice to the people of the state was that “For Lassa fever, the vector is the rat; for the doctor, we discovered that last year, two people had Lassa fever in his compound. This means that there is a species of rat that moves around in that area, that perches on people’s food. “So people should stop the idea of keeping food outside on the ground and should be discouraged from eating rat; people should also keep away anything that would encourage rats to enter their homes. “Apart from that, people should also see the doctor if they have a fever. Linking Fulani Groups As Terrorist By Ortom Is Unfortunate… Buhari Commissions 24 Kilometres Vandeikya-Obudu Cattle Ranch… “On our part, we will organize a workshop on Lassa fever in Benue state to create more awareness on why we should not keep anything that will encourage rats into our homes.”