ABUJA – Senator Kashim Shettima, former governor of Borno State has said that Nigeria beyond 2023 requires a leader who will unify and not pander to regional or religious sentiments, insisting that the bill perfectly fits the person of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Addressing a conference of Supporters Group Management Council (SGMC), a coalition platform for groups rooting for the Jagaban Borgu, Senator Shettima said Tinubu is embued with rich ideas and strategies to fix the nation’s battered economy and unite the people. He also Insists that power must shift to the Southern part of the country in the interest of equity, fairness and justice, adding that Tinubu deserves the support he enjoys because of the sacrifice he has made for Political. 2023: Unity Of Our Party, My Paramount Interest, Not Election… Another 2000 Families To Enjoy Affordable Housing In Nigeria He said the nation is at a critical junction in history, requiring patriots and citizens to choose wisely who takes them beyond 2023. “We are brought together by a forest of ideas, but what defines us and sets us apart from other political groups is this collective realisation that the future of this country rests on the choice of a unifying leader; a leader who panders to neither ethnic nor religious agenda, and one who isn’t bound by toxic regional solidarity and yet known for a track record of outstanding leadership. ” If you look round this country in search of such a noble character, the count easily falls on the subject of this gathering: Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu”. He took a swipe at critics who have focused on the age of the former Lagos State governor to dismiss his aspiration, stating that the race for the nation’s top seat is not an Olympic race.That aside,he said Tinubu’s work ethic which stands him out among his contemporaries is what the country needs to come out of the woods. “The mudslinging that has trailed Asiwaju since his presidential bid took the top spot in the country is a mere acknowledgment of his political track record and inimitable influence on our political scene. The attempts at weaving ridiculous fiction to override the history we’ve all witnessed demonstrate the detractors’ utter desperation and cowardice. POLL “One of such is the mischievous fixation on his age and the wild conclusions that he’s physically unsuitable for the Office of the President. This obsession characterizes the thinking of those who have no understanding of Asiwaju’s incredible work ethic.. Also speaking at the massive gathering of over 2,500 different Support Groups, former Secretary to the Government, Pastor Babachir Lawal lamented the failure of leadership within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) noting that“the objective of building a cohesive and virile political party has eluded the leadership of the APC. “The incapacity of the Party to even harmonize and synergize policydirection of the federal government with that of States it controls especially inkey critical areas around which the campaigns were run, speaks volumes about its incompetence,” he said. The former SGF was particularly ruthless at the Governor Mai Mala Buni led APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) describing the committee as a cabal. According to him the CECPC has hijacked the party and compounded the entire organs of the party but failing to conduct common ward, LGA and state congresses. 2023: Nigerians Must Ensure Looters Don’t Preside Over The… 2023: Gbajabiamila Makes Case For Review Of Academic… “Compounding these problems in the last one year is the apparent hijacking of the party by a self-serving cabal who, driven by personal ambitions, have failed to organize even simple conflict-free Ward, Local Government, and State Congresses not to talk of a National Convention. ” As we speak, there are only ahandful of states in the country that do not have parallel state executives.This is the current state of our party and it is in this environment that wegathered here must operate to deliver Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the party’s flag bearer at the 2023 presidential election. And this we will do be it through consensus, indirect or direct party primaries by the grace of God. “We are neither offended or threatened by whichever method the party chooses to adapt for theemergence of its presidential candidate.”.