Cautions Politicians Against Violence, Brigandage Former Security Adviser to Ekiti State Governor, Honourable Israel Adesokan, has urged political gladiators to shun all acts capable of undermining the existing peace. Adesokan, in his New Year Message to the people of Ekiti, thanked God Almighty for sparing their lives and taking them through the trials of 2021. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… The security expert charged political office seekers to embrace showing love to one another and run decent campaigns by playing the game according to its rules. He also enjoined all well-meaning Ekiti people to work towards peace, with the hope that Nigeria shall overcome her security and economic challenges. Adesokan said, “No doubt, 2022 is symbolic in Ekiti because it is our Election Year. It is significant to us in Ekiti, as it is the year we would elect another governor who will run the affairs of the State for another four years. He said, “I want to admonish politicians to remember that politics is like a football competition where a winner and a loser must emerge at the end of the contest. “We can only attain peace and development if the winner is magnanimous in victory and the loser accepts the defeat in good faith by congratulating the winner. I pray that God shall see us through the year 2022. I greet you all and welcome to the new year. POLL “This is the way we can demonstrate that we actually love and care for the people of our dear State. The era of political brigandage is over in Ekiti. ” It is important to stress here that the ambition of our politicians do not worth the life of any individual. So, let us embrace peace and play the game according to its rules. “I welcome you all to 2022 and this shall be your year of fulfilment and blessing. The year God has destined for Ekiti to move forward. Thank you, thank you and you are welcome to the new year,” Adesokan added.