One Agudozie Peter Ihie, who based in Doha, the capital of Qatar, was on Tuesday, arraigned before a Lagos Federal High Court, for alleged smuggling of 650 gram of Cocaine, into the country by ingestion. Agudozie, 49, was docked before Justice Tijjani Ringim by the men of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), on a two count-charge of unlawful importation of the named drug. NDLEA lawyer, Mrs. Juliana Imaobong-Iroabuchi while arraigning the defendant, told the court that he was arrested on May 25, 2021, for unlawfully imported the banned substance, at the ‘E’ Arrival Hall of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja Lagos, while  on board of Qatar Airways, enroute  Kenya to Nigeria. FG Orders Military To Flush Out ISWAP, Armed Bandits From Kainji… Just In: Gunmen Release Mp’s Mom After Payment Of N40m… She told the court that the defendant, while on board the aircraft, excreted parts of the banned substance and his it in his socks and private part. Adding that upon his arrest, he also excreted more of the while under observation. She told the court that the offences commited by the defendant, contravened section 11(a) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Cap N, 30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, and punishable under the same Act. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. Upon defendant’s plea of not guilty, the prosecutor, Mrs. Imaobong-Iroabuchi, asked the court for a trial date. She also urged the court to remand the defendant in custody of Nigerian Correctional Services (NCoS), till the determination of the charges against him. Responding to the prosecutor’s request, lawyer to the defendant, Mr. Benson Ndakara, informed the court that he did not opposed the the prosecutor’s application for a trial date, but said he has filed the defendant’s bail appllication and same has been served on the prosecutor. POLL The prosecutor confirmed being served with the defendant’s bail application. Upon taken arguments on the bail application from both parties, Justice Ringim adjourned till February 3, for ruling, while also ordered that the defendant be remanded at the NCoS’ facility.