LAGOS  – The new Lagos State Com­missioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, has assured residents that he will ensure that the presence of policemen is felt in the state at all times so as to deter criminals and ensure that the Rapid Response Squad is encouraged and strengthened to respond promptly and effectively to citizens’ concerns. CP Abiodun Alabi officially takes over as the Lagos State Commissioner of Police in the state on Monday, Jan­uary 24, 2022. While briefing the press, immedi­ately after a handing over ceremony which took place at the Command’s Headquarters in Ikeja, Alabi said: “There will be respect for fundamen­tal Human Rights. I will ensure that no breach of Human Rights will be toler­ated under my command and watch. ICPC Graduates 246 Newly Recruited Officers From Training… Lagos Island Clash: NURTW Branch Chairman, Kunle Poly, Sego… “Although Lagos State is undoubt­edly a familiar turf for me having served in the state for many years in different capacities, nevertheless, it has become necessary to bring to the fore my template and policing vision. We will also ensure that our men’s conduct while discharging their du­ties must be in conformity with our professional ethics especially with is­sues of corruption and extra Judicial killing and acts of incivility to mem­bers of the public. “We will strive to build confidence and trust in members of the public particularly with state actors and non-state actors through intelligence led community policing. Area command­ers and Divisional Police Officers will be encouraged to meet regularly with non-state actors to ensure common problems confronting their various areas of responsibilities are collective­ly addressed. “I will not be allergic to construc­tive criticism but will see it as an information to rejig our security ar­chitecture for our policing strategy. Therefore I will encourage collabora­tion with the 4™️ Estate of the realm and appeal that issues concerning our policing policies in the State are brought to my knowledge promptly. I will also endeavour to hold parleys with journalists where solutions will be tabled and addressed in an amica­ble manner.”