Kola Ajayi is well known in political circles in Lagos and South West geo-political zone. He is the Chairman, Alliance for Democracy (AD); Coordinator, Forum of Political Parties (FPP), two-term Chairman, Inter-Parties Advisory Council (IPAC); Director, Inter and Intra Party Affairs, South West Forum of Political Parties for the Actualisation of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu presidency, Codenamed Southwest Agenda (SWAGA) 2023, all in Lagos State. In this interview, Ajayi speaks to EJIKEME OMENAZU on Tinubu’s presidential aspiration, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: Before his recent visit to President Muhammadu Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was quoted as telling his supporters that he would not ignore the calls for him to run for president. Does that mean that he has really accepted to run for the 2023 presidential election? Let us wait for him to complete his consultations. After all, he just briefed Nigerians that he has informed Mr. President of his intention to run for the office of the president come 2023. But, we are hopeful that he will contest for president 2023. APC Has A Lot To Learn From PDP – Adoji Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition Laughable – Adikwuru Asiwaju was also quoted to have said that he did not need South East and South South to be president. Under what context would you say such a statement is feasible? I did not hear him say that. The Asiwaju Tinubu I know is not tribalist. He appointed a South Easterner as a commissioner in Lagos when he was the governor of the state. Apart from Asiwaju Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, and Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, all Asiwaju’s followers in APC, are said to be interested in the presidency. How could you juxtapose their ambitions with that of Asiwaju, their political mentor? All these are conjectures. Let us wait for the real politics to start first. Moreover, they are all good products for the presidency. But, Asiwaju is the most suitable going by his antecedents in Lagos State. Don’t you think that these aspirations could break the Asiwaju’s camp and by extension the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South West as the jostling for the party’s ticket for the 2023 presidential election thickens? POLL Not at all! Everybody will still support whoever wins at the primaries. The most popular candidate, which is Asiwaju, will definitely emerge, by God’s grace. With the North’s reluctance to zone presidency to the South, don’t you think the region will make it difficult for Asiwaju Tinubu’s dream of ruling Nigeria a mirage? The North has been in power for eight years. The South deserves it next. So, the North cannot insist. Only a few of them are saying that, and it cannot fly. Could you list some of the achievements of Asiwaju Tinubu which made you consider him better qualified than no other as Nigerian president in 2023? Asiwaju’s achievements are legendary. Despite the victimisation by then President Olusegun Obasanjo, he survived by establishing an aggressive Internal Generated Revenue (IGR) drive and progression in Lagos. He secured Lagos and gave it a security architecture that successive governments are building on. Not forgetting the cosmopolitan cabinets and appointments that he made by appointing Igbos and Hausas into government in Lagos. And till date, Lagos remains the model of Nigeria and to Nigerians. The infrastructural development of Lagos was his brain child. Education, health also had massive development during his time. AFCON: Atiku Hails Super Eagles Over Sudan Defeat Tinubu Pays Condolence Visit To Makinde Over  Olubadan, Soun,… Would you say that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s White Paper on #EndSARS protest was far reaching enough and solved the problems highlighted by the Lagos judicial panel? Yes. He has done a good job. He should try to do all that is recommended in the report. It is believed that the Federal Government, as shown by the utterances of the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, and AGF Abubakar Malami, by their utterances allegedly intimidated Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to come up with a White Paper that fell short of the expectations of Lagosians. How would you react to this? The members of the panel that produced the White Paper included a retired Chief Judge, a Senior Lawyer, and prominent Lagosians. I think the governor ought to be commended for his non-interference in the selection of the initial committee. Such a person like our governor cannot be influenced at all. With the emergence of the Omicron variant of COVID-19, don’t you think that the government should adopt more realistic methods of vaccination like the house-to-house vaccination and more enlightenment to encourage more Nigerians to take the vaccines? There are vaccination centres in all the public health facilities across the state and daily awareness is ongoing everywhere. So, we need our people to go there and get vaccinated. How would you access the performance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu so far? So far, so good! The governor has performed beyond expectations. He has done his best in the prevailing circumstances. What is your reaction to President Muhammadu Buhari’s rejection of a political solution to the case of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the IPOB leader, which a lot of Nigerians believe would have brought peace, instead of his preferred judicial process which might escalate crises in the South East? President Muhammadu Buhari’s rejection of a political solution to Nnamdi Kanu’s release is a good decision. If tackled from the political point, it will be seen as usurping the judicial process. Moreover, a lot more cases that are non-political will be put up for political solutions, citing Nnamdi Kanu’s case as a reference point. Whoever commits a crime should face the law and should not look for a cheap way out to evade justice. With the interest of top politicians in the South West in the 2023 presidency, don’t you think this may destroy the current unity among the Southern leaders? Politics is always about interests. I am sure everybody will align and forge a strong block to support whoever emerges as the presidential candidate How would you react to recent speculations that the All Progressives Congress (APC) may also be considering former President Goodluck Jonathan for its 2023 presidential ticket? It is all in the realm of speculations. Former President Goodluck Jonathan is a good presidential candidate and also from the Southern part of Nigeria. But, he will have to slug it out with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at the primaries, if he wants to be president under the All Progressives Congress (APC). However, I want to advise Jonathan against attempting to return to power for him to retain the dignity and honour he is enjoying now as a statesman. The All Progressives Congress (APC) has not been able to put its house in order since the removal of Adams Oshiomhole over two years ago. Don’t you think that the party might witness an implosion over its coming national convention and before the 2023 general elections? We advise the All Progressives Congress (APC) to put their house in order and conduct their national convention as soon as possible. Even President Muhammadu Buhari said the ongoing crises in the party may spell doom for them, if they fail to do the needful. Several Middle Belt groups are canvassing for the position of Vice President from the region in 2023 while Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State is seeking to be president. Which do you think is more realistic for the region as the general elections beckon? The Southern part of the country is rooting for the presidency after eight years ruled by a Northerner. This position is the most realistic and reasonable for Southerners now. I urge Governor Yahaya Bello to align with his people’s position because charity, they say, begins from home. Lastly, you are the state chairman of Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Lagos State. Since the deregistration of the party and some others by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), what would you say is the state of the party and its members? The party, Alliance for Democracy (AD), is intact and we are meeting. It is unfortunate that we found ourselves in such a precarious situation because under normal circumstances, we are not supposed to be deregistered because, looking at our past achievements, we should still be standing. Secondly, due process was not followed generally before the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) made the pronouncement deregistering the parties.Anyway, the case against the action is still in court. We are hopeful of defeating the INEC in court because once the case is won in court, it will rub off on all deregistered parties. So, we are still functioning as a party with shared ideas and visions.