Projects worth N2.4billion  have been facilitated by  Senator  representing  Ekiti North Senatorial ,Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi to Ekiti State in the last two years. The projects which included construction of roads, solar boreholes, blocks of classrooms and empowerment were spread across 73 communities in Ekiti North. Specifically, Adetumbi , chieftain of the All Progressives Congress(APC) and chairman ,Senate Committee on National Planning ,disclosed that 20 units of solar-powered boreholes, seven township  road projects and 3,6 & 12-block of classrooms in six selected schools within constituents. Says Ortom Had No Hand In Selection Of Ochi’Idoma -CPS 2023: APC Working On One Lie That Will Return PDP To Power… The senator’s Director of Operations , Chief Segun Adelugba who conducted journalists  round the various sites and locations of the projects in the five Local Governments areas Speaking through his Director of Operations, Senator Adetumbi explained that  five erosion/ ecological projects, building of two- lock up shops and Three ICT training centres across four local governments of  Ikole,Ilejemeje, Oye and Ido/Osi councils, while  projects in  Moba local government are in the pipeline and will commence soon. The legislator  disclosed that  about  N10 million  was spent on scholarship awards to  over 200 students  in tertiary institutions , while about 300 artisans have been exposed to modern training to sharpen their expertises. Senator Adetumbi disclosed that the feat was achieved through personal sacrifices to uplift his people and by intense networking with relevant federal government’s agencies to bring dividends of democracy to his constituents. Others, according to the Senator are: five erosion/ ecological projects, building of two- lock up shops and Three ICT training centres across four local governments of  Ikole,Ilejemeje, Oye and Ido/Osi councils, while  projects in  Moba local government are in the pipeline and will commence soon. POLL The Senator said “450 beneficiaries of the first phase of NDE Special Public Works got  N60,000 each, making a sum of  N27m. Also, another round of 650 beneficiaries of NDE Special Public Works collect  N60,000 per beneficiary which gulped a sum of  N39m. All these I facilitated for my constituents. “The second phase of Covid-19 loan benefited 50 persons and through this, over  N20m had been injected into our local economy, apart from training for thousands of women leaders, groups, chiefs  and  unemoloyed graduates, among other innovations I have brought to uplift my constituents”. Adetumbi said he had injected some projects in the federal governnment’s budgetary provisions for 2022 for project execution in Moba local government and part of Ido/Osi council area. “Human capital development remains the best way to develop any economy, particularly the youth population . They represent the major bloc that are productive and they can’t be neglected. “It saddened my heart to hear that about 32 million youth population in Nigeria are jobless and this statistics came from the Bureau of statistics. Time has come for all leaders, both legislative and executive to design ways to bail out youth out of this present mess. Osun 2022: Wole Oke Urges PDP Stakeholders To Embrace Peace Religious Group Gives Aregbesola, Oyetola 7 Days To End Feud “The upsurge of internet fraud, kidnapping and killings as well as other criminal tendencies being exhibited in our society were confirmation of the degeneration caused by joblessness in our society. We need to tackle them headlong and all these are achievable with leaders making the right sacrifices. Adetumbi added that all the federal lawmakers in the state should form a right partnership with Fayemi-led government for better federal presence in Ekiti.