Rafael Nadal is “100%” given preferential treat­ment by umpires, claimed Denis Shapovalov after his defeat by the Span­iard in their Australian Open quarterfinal. Shapovalov was unhappy with the amount of time he thought Nadal was taking between points and twice complained to umpire Carlos Bernardes. “I think it’s unfair how much Rafa is getting away with,” said Shapovalov. In reply, 35-year-old Nadal said: “I believe he is wrong in this case.” Why Azimuth Is Best NationalJuniors – Capt. Owolabi …Navratilova Blasts Peng Shuai T-Shirt Ban Shapovalov, 22, lost in five sets to 20-time Grand Slam champion Nadal at Mel­bourne Park on Tuesday, hav­ing fought back to level after going two sets down. At the start of the second set, Shapovalov asked Ber­nardes to give a time violation to the sixth seed. When the official did not see fit to do so, Shapovalov shouted: “You guys are all corrupt.” In his post-match news con­ference, 14th seed Shapovalov said he “misspoke” during the match with emotions riding high but still stood by the wid­er point. Players are allowed 25 seconds between points and two minutes between sets, all timed by a shot clock. POLL Asked whether he thinks Nadal receives preferential treatment, Shapovalov said: “Of course – 100% he does, 100%. Every other match that I have played, the pace has been so quick because the refs have been on the clock after every single point. “I’m completely ready to play and the clock is ticking 3, 2, 1, clicking towards zero. I’m looking at the umpire and obviously I’m going to speak up and say something. “I’ve been ready to play for a minute and a half, and he tells me he’s not going to give him a code violation because I’m not ready to play. To me, it’s a big joke if somebody says that.” Shapovalov added: “I re­spect everything that Rafa has done and I think he’s an unbelievable player. But there have got to be some boundar­ies, some rules set. “It’s just so frustrating as a player. You feel like you’re not just playing against the player; you’re playing against the umpires, you’re playing against so much more.” Doubts Over Timing Of Djokovic Covid Test BREAKING: Barty Beats Collins To Win First Australian Open Title The first complaint came after Nadal changed his kit at the end of the first set and Shapovalov remonstrated with Bernardes again before the second game about how long Nadal was taking to serve.