LAFIA – Mr. Ahmed Mohammed, the Executive Chairman Nasarawa state Internal Revenue Service has on Tuesday said the State generate the sum of N16.8 billion as Internally generated revenue for the year 2021 The Executive Chairman who disclosed this in an interviewed with newsmen in Lafia, State capital said the effort was as a result of stopping the use of manual reciepts and introducing a central billing system for the collection of taxes in the state. He explained that it became necessary to introduce the central billing system because the usage of manual reciepts for the collection of taxes became an avenue for some corrupt individuals to enrich themselves with the state funds. Despite Security Challenges, Nigeria Is Not A Failed Nation –… SMEs: Ugwuanyi Empowers Enugu Youths Through Cyber Security… Muhammad informed that before his appointment in office four years ago, the highest revenue generated by the state on a yearly basis was N6 billion but with the initiatives recently put in place, the state was able to generate the sum of N16.8 billion naira for the year 2021. According to him, “The total revenue we generated last year is N16.8 billion. We were able to achieve this feat because the state government has banned the use of manual reciepts. We now have a platform that we use which is called the central billing system. “If you make any payment on the central billing system, you can print an online reciept. The use of manual reciept was an avenue by some corrupt individuals to deprive government of its funds. Anybody could just go and print reciept anywhere but with the new system, you will not get reciepts unless you make payment through the platform,” he said. He explained that the state government was working in collaboration with the security agencies to track down criminal minded individuals who were still using manual reciept to collect taxes from residents of the state despite its ban. He also said, “Apart from the monitoring team that we have here, we are also working in collaboration with the police and the DSS to see that we arrest those issuing manual reciepts. We have made several arrest and most of them have been charged to court. POLL “Lack of compliance in tax payment is our biggest challenge. So we are appealing that residents of the state should take payment of tax very seriously. I am not satisfied with the N16.8 billion we generated for the state in year 2021 because I want to do more”, Muhammad added. He however mentioned other initiatives put in place to improve on the state’s internally generated revenue to include automating processes with the use of Point of sales machines and Automated Teller Machines among other electronic channels.