Several people were killed and houses burnt in fresh attacks at Galad­ima-Kogo and Galkogo communities in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State. The attacks, according to residents, were launched after security operatives were over­powered. Sources said residents of neighbouring Kuchi, Sabon Kabula, Kafana, Dangunu, Zazzaga and Chibani commu­nities in Munya Local Gov­ernment Area of the state fled their homes as attackers were said to have been sighted on Sunday. 2023: I’ll Rather Return Home Than Join APC – Senator… NURTW Clashes: Bode George Blames Sanwo-Olu, Says Lagos Island… The state Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftain­cy Affairs and Internal Securi­ty, Emmanuel Umar, confirmed the attacks. “One of our Forward Op­erating Bases manned by our security was overran during the attack. But we are already re-strategising to take the fight back to them. Already, there have been ongoing security operations in the area, both air and ground. We doing our best”, he said. The Chairman, Shiroro Local Government Area, Su­leiman Dauda Chukuba, also said that security men were overpowered by the bandits. According to him, “This is a tragedy that has just oc­curred on Saturday and I cannot really ascertain the number of casualties for now because the place stands as a no-go area as I am talking to you now. The only dead bodies that we have recovered were 11 but that is not the exact number of casualties. A lot of people were affected. Those that were wounded were nine in number and they are in the hospital as I am talking to you.” About the displaced people, the chairman said, “As the sit­uation is now, we have not done much about the displaced peo­ple. Our concern now is how to make sure we get back the com­munities that have been taken over by the attackers.” POLL He dismissed the rumour making the rounds that securi­ty operatives were withdrawn before the attacks. “It’s not withdrawal of secu­rity operatives per say. But the attackers were more in number and well-armed with sophisticated weapons. So, when they launched the attack, they overpowered our security men because they came in hundreds with sophisticated weapons,” he said.