ABUJA – The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) has requested to understudy the Electronic National Health Insurance Scheme (eNHIS). Electronic National Health Insurance Scheme (eNHIS) designed to make health Insurance services in Nigeria run on technology infrastructure continues to generate attention beyond the health sector. Receiving a 23-person delegation from the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) at its Corporate Head Office, Abuja, the Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof Mohammed Sambo stated that the project holds the prospects of digital transformation of health care delivery system in Nigeria, adding that it would have been difficult if not impossible to implement a social health insurance on a manual processes. JUST IN: CBN Removes ATM Maintenance Fee, Cuts Bank Charges,… Wema Bank MD Lauds Accountants, Acknowledges Relevance In… Sambo in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by DGM, Press, Emmanuel Ononokpono listed the ultimate outcomes of the project to include ease of access to services by existing and prospective beneficiaries as well as hosting and security of health data. The statement reads:”Tracing the trajectory of the project, the professor of health policy stated that engaging the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT) to execute the project on a G-to-G (Government to Government) framework saved huge funds for the tax payer, adding that the project was built with indigenous capacities taking into consideration local peculiarities and* * _international best practices . “The visiting delegation that the eNHIS project has received relevant International and local certifications having been adjudged a critical national asset, noting that high level security agencies have given highly favourable assessments of the project. “Highlighting the part played by key figures in government to make the project come to fruition, Sambo acknowledged the roles of the Honourable Minister of Health , his state counterpart, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and President Muhammadu Buhari. These individuals, ( FEC is not an individual ) Sambo said demonstrated exceptional interest in the project, ensuring that it received the much-needed approval of the Federal Executive Council in record time. “The study as aimed at bringing quality service to people in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s Next Level agenda, observing that Nigerians deserve quality service which the partnership of both organizations can offer”. POLL Speaking on the significance of the collaboration of both agencies, Sambo noted that when organizations of government work in synergy the people always benefit more. “The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria has gone far in its automation process. This visit is to cross-fertilize ideas, see what value they can get from NHIS so that they can replicate it in their organization”, Sambo explained. On what Nigerians are to expect from the collaboration, Sambo said, “Nigerians will see unity of purpose in terms of carrying out its businesses and duty, government is one, we have one president and we should work together to help government achieve its mandate”, he emphasized. Speaking earlier, the Managing Director of the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) Arc. Ahmed Dangiwa said that the idea of understudying the eNHIS project arose when he saw an episode of the Scheme’s television magazine programme showcasing the initiative, adding that his institution recognized the importance of ICT to any business and was open to draw lessons from the project and apply same to relevant portions of its own operations. “We at FMBN recognize the importance of ICT to any business venture which was also catapulted to the front burner during the surge of Covid-19, an era when businesses had to be more innovative in order to efficiently provide services via information technology”. Fidelity Bank Unveils New Millionaires In GAIM Season 5 Promo… CBN MPC Retains Benchmark Interest Rate At 11.5% On the choice of Institution to visit, Dangiwa said, “we identified one organization that has achieved that feat of automation of services which is NHIS. We find that it is a very good agency that we can understudy to know how we can have a very good synergy and collaboration to see how we can improve our system”. Dangiwa stated that the bank’s operation shared similarities with the Scheme in that both organizations relied on pooling of funds for their operations, listing possible areas of collaboration by both agencies to include shared registration processes. While officials of NIGCOMSAT, the managing and executing partners of the project, gave an overview of the soft and hardware components of eNHIS, the general manager, Information and Communication Technology department (ICTD) of NHIS, Prince Nasiru Ikharo made a detailed PowerPoint presentation of the project, after which he fielded questions from the delegation. After the presentation of the project, the Executive Secretary led the FMBN delegation on a tour of the eNHIS infrastructure. Dangiwa expressed his gratitude to the Executive Secretary for accepting the Bank’s request to understudy the eNHIS ICT infrastructure. The eNHIS has been scheduled for official unveiling within the first quarter of the year.