YENAGOA – Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has called on Nigerians to use the occasion of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day commemoration to reflect on the sacrifices of fallen heroes and serving members of the armed forces to protect the territorial integrity, unity and peace of the country. He also called for support to projects and intervention programmes initiated to care for the loved ones of fallen heroes and servicemen as a token of appreciation for the sacrifices the military men are making for the safety of all. Diri made the call during the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration at the Peace Park in Yenagoa on Saturday. Armed Forces Remembrance Day: We Must Always Remember Families… Armed Forces Remembrance Day: Diri Hails Courage, Sacrifice Of… At the event, the governor, his deputy Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere, the Chief Judge, Justice Kate Abiri and a former military governor of old Rivers State and monarch of Twon-Brass, Alfred Diete-Spiff, were among dignitaries that laid wreaths at the feet of the unknown soldier. He expressed appreciation for the sacrifices of fallen heroes and serving members of the nation’s armed forces. “Our debt of gratitude to those who choose to die for us even when they did not even know us, should be immense”, Diri said. He stressed that the remembrance day should remind Nigerians of the sacrifices of the military and the need to live in peace and unity. POLL The governor said, “The essence of commemorating this day is not to glorify war. Rather, it is to recall the price that others had to pay for us to live in peace and thus commit ourselves to live in such a manner that future generations will have no need to fight wars. The labour of our heroes past should never be in vain. “Let us continue to show love to our heroes and their loved ones by supporting the various projects and interventions that have been set up to care for our men and women in uniform. This includes but not limited to making financial commitments to yielding our place in queues.” Among others who also graced the occasion were heads of security agencies in the state, top government functionaries and traditional rulers.