IBADAN – Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde as announced the award of scholarship to a 23-year-old Samuel Ogundeji, a blind student of Federal College Of Education (Special ) Oyo, brutalized and slapped several times by men of the proscribed Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) after being falsely accused of stealing a bankers wallet at a hotel in Saki which resulted in his blindness. Governor Makinde announced the gesture after receiving the Judicial Panel Report of Inquiry set up following the End-Sars protest of October, 2020 to look into petitions submitted by alleged victims of police brutality, victimisation and extra-judicial killings The chairman of the judicial panel, Hon. Justice Badejoko Adeniji had in her speech while stating some of the achievements of the panel, stated that the panel members sought and got admission for the said victim to study political science and paid his first semester fees, accommodation, feeding and clothing among others We Will Flag Off Iseyin-Ogbomoso Road In Ten Days –… Death Of Akala, Olubadan, Soun: Trying Moment For Makinde… The governor promised that the brutalized boy will be given a stipend throughout the duration of his study in addition to the scholarship from the state government. He also noted that men of the Nigerian police force who lost their lives during the recent End-Sars protest will be taken care of even if there are no clear recommendations on it by the panel. Governor Makinde subsequently requested the state commissioner of police, CP Ngozi Onadeko to compile a list of policemen in the state that were the victims of the incident. According to him, policemen are members of society and their lives should not be seen as amounting to anything whether they are the cause of the problem or not. He appreciated the panel for a job well done assuring that the report will not be swept under the carpet as action will be taken care of toward the implementation of the report POLL Earlier in her speech, Chairman of the Judicial Panel of inquiry, Hon. Justice Badejoko Adeniji (retd), declared that 151 petitions were received while 121 of the petitions were heard you finality and were adjourned sine die for award and compensation. According to her, 30 petitions were struck out due to lack of diligent prosecution by the petitioners, withdrawal of petitions amicably settled and those that are subject to litigation status pending in various courts in the land. She said the Panel recommended the award of compensations into five categories namely, death, permanent physical injuries, loss of valuable items, victims undergoing medical or surgical treatment unlawful detention and other human rights violations The report according to her, is categorised into two volumes, 1and 1A .while volume 1 contains petitions by victims resident in the state brutalized, victimised and tortured by men of the state security network, Amotekun, volume 1A contains petitions also from residents who suffered the same fate in the hands of men the disbanded Special Anti -Robbery Squad ( SARS), state the police command and the Intelligence Response Team of the office of the Inspector General of Police who arrest and whisked away alleged victims to Abuja. Recall that the panel which commenced it’s public sitting on January 26, 2021, was inaugurated on November 10, 2020, with six months to conclude its assignment and submit its report but was extended as a result of the nature, extent and enormity of the assignment. It, however, concluded it’s sitting on July 13, 2021.