LAGOS – The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), and other stakeholders in the nation’s economy have appealed to the Federal Government to deepen support to real sector of the economy, review the current foreign exchange policy regime to boost productivity of the manufacturers’ in the country . They said the gesture will also to better prepare for future competitive manufacturing in the first quarter of this year by addressing the liquidity crisis in the foreign exchange market. They implored the fiscal and monetary authorities to review the nation’s trade policy to bring down the cost of some intermediate products for manufacturers, adding that such policy will boost productivity in the economy as well as drive output growth. Pressure On Nigeria’s Debt Service Expected To Persist In 2022… Obaseki Urges Nigerians To Join Govt In Providing Amenities They advocated that the Federal Government should direct the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission to remove all the bottlenecks inhibiting manufacturers’ access to the Eligible Customer Scheme in the country. They told Daily Independent that limited access to long term loans and high cost of loanable funds are jointly restraining the ability of the manufacturing sector to produce at full capacity and adversely affecting the contribution of the sector to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) According to the analysts, further devaluation of the nation’s currency might not be necessary given that part of the pressure on the Naira is due to speculative attacks and much of the concern for investors lies with the uncertainty around foreign exchange policy. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), at its recent advocacy visit to President Muhammadu Buhari, on strategic measure to drive economic growth through improved performance of the manufacturing sector this year, called for government support to overcome the constraints to competitive manufacturing in Nigeria. Engr. Mansur Ahmed, MAN’s President, who spoke at a recent forum,said: “Manufacturers have been finding it difficult to source forex for importation of machines and raw materials that are not available in the country. Whilst we commend and support the recent Central Bank of Nigeria policy on non-allocation of forex to BDCs, we are constrained to observe that it has not translated into any meaningful improvement in supply of forex to manufacturers. POLL “We therefore, request for the intervention of Your Excellency to ensure the prioritization of allocation for the purpose of importing raw materials and vital machine and equipment that are not available locally. In addition, we request that your excellency to direct the Central Bank of Nigeria and Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment to engage the Association to find ways of driving forex to the manufacturing sector. He spoke on inadequate electricity supply in the country, saying manufacturers still contend with inadequate electricity supply from the national grid and high electricity tariff from distribution companies coupled with the enormous cost of providing alternative energy at over N72.7billion, thereby limiting the competitiveness of manufacturing in Nigeria. He said:“While commending the Government for the ongoing reform in the power sector, we implore your Excellency to direct that the NERC should remove all the bottlenecks inhibiting manufacturers’ access to the Eligible Customer Scheme. “As a matter of policy, significant amount of the 2000 MW stranded electricity in the system can be made available to manufacturers through this scheme”. On poor access to long term fund, MAN’s President maintained that limited access to long term loans and high cost of loanable funds are also jointly restraining the ability of the sector to produce at full capacity and adversely affecting the contribution of manufacturing to the Gross Domestic Product. How Should We Play The Equity Market In This New Year, Given The… The Imperative Of Positive Nigerian Economy In 2022 He added:“We applaud the efforts of Government aimed at resolving these issues through various stimulus packages, but regret to note that genuine and deserving manufacturers are not able to access the funds. “We therefore recommend that a monitoring and evaluation platform involving the private sector be set up to oversight the allocation of these funds. This will ensure that the funds are judiciously allocated to genuine manufacturers have access to these incentives”. Engr. Ahmed, who argued that the patronage of made in Nigeria goods and local content development need proper monitoring to get the desired result, said: “we commend the wisdom of your administration instituting Executive Orders 003 and 005 on patronage of made in Nigeria goods and development of local content. “We humbly request that Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government we mandated to strictly prioritize the patronage of made in Nigeria items in all their purchases and contracts. In the same vein, we urge Mr. President, as the chairman of the Presidential Motoring Committee for Implementation of Executive Order 005 to direct that the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation to inaugurate the Secretariat that will implement the strategies for the Executive Order. “As a test case of this initiative, we humbly request that Mr President direct SON to certified local manufacturers of LPG Gas Cylinders be specifically designated as priority provider of the 10 million cooking gas cylinders to be procured by the Federal Government for 12 States in the Federation”. On looming increases in Tax Rate: Mr. President said: “we are deeply concerned about imminent increase in taxes, duty rates and excise duty particularly for Food and Beverages sub-sector. This is because the affected sub-sectors are currently groaning under multiple taxes, levies and fees from the different tiers of Government and the disposable income of the average Nigerian is already eroded causing high inventory of unsold manufactured products. “While appreciating that Government needs to generate funds to meet its rising social and economic obligations, we strongly opine that it is the tax base that should be expanded to capture the untaxed, while the existing genuine and diligent corporate taxpayers should net be overburdened as this could be counterproductive and the envisaged increased revenue may not be realised”. Dr Muda Yusuf, Founder/CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE),and former Director General of Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in chats with Daily Independent on how Federal Government can deepen support to real sector of the economy for future competitive manufacturing called on government to sustain the implementation of policies that have helped the economy to quickly recover from recession, survive the onslaught of COVID-19 and revive other initiatives that have suddenly gone quiescent. He expressed optimistism that there is room for improvement in the provision and maintenance of infrastructure, investment productivity, and boosting of local business activities to support export activities and strengthen channels for dollar inflow. He said: “There is need to reduce the level of debt financing especially the reliance on commercial debt to fund government operations. Public debt is already at an unsustainable threshold. Steps should be taken to attract foreign exchange through a strategy of ensuring new investment opportunities to stimulate foreign capital inflows into the economy. On foreign policy management, Dr Yusuf said: “Against the backdrop of the challenges faced by investors in the foreign exchange market, the CPPE is calling for an urgent review of the current foreign exchange policy regime. “Our proposition is that we should adopt a flexible exchange rate policy regime. We would like to clarify that this is not a devaluation proposition. “Rather, it is a pricing mechanism that reflects the demand and supply fundamentals in the foreign exchange market. It is a model that is sustainable, predictable and transparent. It is a policy regime that would reduce uncertainty and inspire the confidence of investors. “It is a policy framework that would minimize discretion and arbitrage in the foreign exchange allocation mechanism. “A flexible exchange rate regime is a policy choice adopted to cope with changing demand and supply conditions in the forex market. A market rate would also deepen the autonomous foreign exchange market through the liberalization of inflows from Export Proceeds, Diaspora Remittances, Multinational Companies, Donor Agencies, and Diplomatic missions” Mr. Friday Udo, Director of Emerging Knowledge, Policy and Partnership, Institute of Professional Economists and Public Policy Management, advocated the need for better macroeconomic management framework to stabilise the exchange rate, eradicate the challenge of liquidity in the foreign exchange market and to stem the current depreciation of the Naira by the monetary authority He said: “There is also the urgent need for not only competitive returns, but also investors’ confidence and an enabling environment of which clear and robust policies, good infrastructure and business friendly regulations are a major component by the fiscal authority”.