Equity prices rallied on the strength of buying interest in Telecoms and others sectors on the Nigerian Exchange to extend the three straight weeks of bullish transition as the composite index closed higher on improved traded volume and positive breadth ahead of earnings reporting season and MPC meeting holding on January 24 and 25, 2022. Positive investors’ vibes continued on the exchange in the midst of headwind in the macroeconomic environment and rising oil prices in the international market. Despite the changing global economic trends and geopolitical unrest threats that influencing the commodities prices across the globe, the nation’s economic recovery has persisted, notwithstanding its being weak as revealed by the growth of 0.50%, 5.01% and 4.03% recorded in Q1, Q2 and Q3 respectively. Corporate Earnings To Determine The Next Direction On NGX, As… Vitafoam 2021FY: Despite Juicier Dividend, Cost Cutting Needed… This trend is likely to continue as investing public looks to 2021 Q4 GDP to confirm the state of the economy as at last quarter. Economic data released during the week shows that, after eight consecutive months of declines in the Consumer Price Indicator (CPI), the Headline Inflation rate rose by 23bps to 15.63% in December 2021 from 15.4% in the prior month, according to the official data released from the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The increase in Headline Inflation was attributed to the surge in consumer spending following the December festive season, security concerns and depreciation of Naira in the FX market as the two sub-indexes rose year-on-year. Despite the gloomy picture and happenings in global markets as many closed in red and mixed, back home, the NGX All-Share Index has rallied 7.59% this year from its December 31, 2021 level, validating our position on the ‘January Effect rally’. The market has broken out its five-year and 2018 strong resistance level to its 14-year high, on improved volume traded and positive sentiment, extending the new trend and characteristics that support an uptrend. POLL The index action now looks to the 2008 all-time market high. As economic fundamental news, expected economic data, corporate earnings and actions are likely to shape the market in Q1. As January positive performance was attributed to buying interests in Airtel, MTNN, Seplat, Dangote Cement, BUA Foods Nestle and Zenith Bank, ahead of these company’s full year earnings reports that will hit the market any moment in this quarter. The high volume of transactions and price actions reveal the presence of buyers and return of institutional players to the market after the holidays, as positive fundamentals and technical patterns reveal the undervalued state of the market and buying opportunities for discerning players During the week, the following: Airtel, Fidson Healthcare, Nahco and others hit new 52-week high. Access Bank 2021-9M: Positioning For Fiercer Competition, Better… Despite The Mixed Sentiment And Performance, NGX Created Wealth… So, to navigate the New Year profitably, order for Investdata’s video on Technical Toolbox for Buy & Sell Decision Home Study Pack to enhance trading results and boost your bottom line. Also, to up your game in stock trading and investing, understanding the key to trading price and index action will go a long way to make the difference in your trading results, checkout the video materials below Movement Of NGXASI NGXASI had a bullish week of four sessions of up market and a day of loses, as the key performance index opened the period on a negative note losing 0.12%, before rebounding on Tuesday with gain of 0.53% on a bull sentiment, which was extended to midweek with sharp uptrend of 1.71% on buying interests in Airtel and Seplat. As Thursday and Friday uptrend were driven by Dangote Cement share buyback and buy interest in blue chip companies that are consistent in dividend paying stocks, as index gained 1.10% and 0.05% respectively, bringing the week’s total gain to 3.4%, compared to the previous week gain of 1.37%. Therefore, overall, the Year-to-Date returns printed at 7.59%. In all, the benchmark index grew by 1,502.68 basis points, closing the week at 45,957.35bps, after touching an intra-week high of 45,957.350bps from its lows of 44,352.61bps, after the period opened at 44,454.67bps on a positive momentum and buying interests in dividend paying stocks. Market capitalisation rose by N809.62 billion, closing at N24.76tr, compared to the previous week’s N23.95tr, which also represented a 3.4% appreciation in value. The first week’ in a long time, the top gainers’ table were dominated by medium and high priced stocks, as bargain hunters continued to take advantage of the breakouts to reshuffle their portfolio on the strength of Q3 earnings reports, sectorial fundamental news and positive economic data. We note that the NGX Index and price actions reveal the presence of buyers in the market, a situation that reflected on major sectoral indexes, just as gains in Seplat, Oando and Eterna that boosted the Oil/Gas index. Market breadth for the week was sharply positive on a high volume as a result position taking during the week, just as players expect historical trend patterns of January to support the recovery in the short to long-run, while investors increase their buying interest on dividend yields as fixed income market returns remain in negative on uptick in inflation. Gainers outnumbered losers in the ratio of 47:23, on buying sentiment as revealed by investors’ sentiment report showing a 100% buy volume. Money Flow Index slipped to 75.41bps from the previous week’s 76.80 points, an indication that funds left the market despite the Bull Run. NSEASI WEEKLY CHART MOVEMENT Technically, index action, on a weekly chart remained strong and bullish, as momentum indicators were mixed and strong on market forces. Just as NGXASI is set to breakout another psychological line of 46,000 points,the candlestick formation at the end of the week trading revealed a strong bull position on a higher traded volume in the midst of buying sentiment. The candlestick pattern indicates a positive outing, and that the market recovery is still strong. Also, with all eyes on fixed income market yields and oil prices to further support market fundamentals and attract liquidity to the equity space. The NGX at this point is creating new buying opportunities for discerning investors. Bullish Sectoral Indices The sectorial performance indexes for the period were higher, except for NGX Insurance that closed lower by 0.27%, while NGX Oil/Gas led the advancers after gaining 5.21%, followed by Industrial goods, Banking and Consumer goods with 4.37%, 1.66% and 1.03% respectively. Transactions in volume and value terms were up as market players traded 1.86bn shares worth N47.49bn, compared to previous week’s 1.6bn units valued at N32.72bn. Volume was driven by Financial Services ICT and Conglomerates, particularly Computer Warehouse Group, Transcorp, FBN Holdings, Dangote Cement and GTCO. Courteville Business Solution and NNFM were the best performing stocks for the week after gaining 24.32% and 20.61% respectively, closing at N0.46 and N7.90per share respectively on positive market sentiment and forces. On the flip side, Veritas Kapital Assurance and Regency Assurance Plc lost 8.70% each, at N0.21 and N0.42per share, purely selloffs and profit taking. Outlook for the week We expect a mixed sentiment on profit taking, bargain hunting, and dividend income positioning for earnings reporting season that had just kicked off ahead of MPC meeting. As over N129 billion FGN bond mature next week to push funds into the market. Funds are likely to flow toward better investment yield or return. It is also noteworthy that funds and portfolio managers continue to take position on the strength of Q3 numbers ahead of 2021 financials. For now, many stocks remain within their buy ranges to attract funds into the equity space. Also, investors will continue tracking yields movement in the fixed income market. Last week low volume suggests that institutional investors are not selling. It is noteworthy that oil price has continued to oscillates in the international market to trade above $85; corporate actions, as well as the Q4 unaudited numbers are around the corner Meanwhile, the home study packs on Comprehensive Stock Market trading course video,Stock Market Analysis Beyond Fundamental & Technical Analysis, INVEST 2021 New Opportunities & New Paths To Profits Summit materials and 10 Golden Stocks for 2021, Strategies and How to invest profitably in this Changing Market Dynamics/ Recession, Mastering Earnings Season For Profitable Investing and Trading in any market situation/ cycles, Life Beyond COVID 19 Investment Opportunities In The Stock Market are now available. To obtain your pack send ‘Yes’ or ‘Stock’ to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.