Manchester United legend Rio Ferdinand has lamented the unhappy players at the club causing “havoc” to push their move, labelling such behaviour as disrespectful. Anthony Martial has openly pushed for a move away, with his agent confirming his client’s desire to leave Old Trafford prior to the transfer window. Donny van de Beek is another understood to be unhappy with his current situation at the club after again struggling for minutes, but rather than voice his concerns has been praised for maintaining a high level in training. Ferguson “Destroyed” Ruud van Nistelrooy In Dressing… Ferdinand Tells Solskjaer To Leave Man Utd Now “With Head… “It’s a privilege to play for that football club, I understand if you want to go because you’re not playing that’s normal. But causing havoc to get out the club is disrespectful,” he said on the FIVE YouTube channel. “Wayne Rooney done it. With Man City, there was rumours of him going to Man City and Wazza spoke about it openly in the changing room but some players were like ‘I don’t want to hear that, you’re a Man United player. Alright, you’re talking about maybe leaving one day, players do that but to go to Man City, no it’s not the way to do it.’ “And to be fair, Wazza done an interview after he signed a new deal apologising for how the way that things went and I think he was young, he got emotional in the situation which can happen. “Players don’t receive that type of information well, you’re at big clubs like Fabrizio [Romano] saying Milans, Juves, Paris Saint-Germain, if players are in house talking about they want to leave and go to a rival, not received well by the big players in that dressing room they will be telling them how they feel. “There’s two types of players in this situation. There’s a player like Donny van de Beek who is conducting himself very well from what I hear from people on the inside, who just isn’t getting game time.” POLL Van de Beek has been absent from the last three Netherlands squads and is currently at risk of missing out on the 2022 World Cup in November. Ferdinand added: “You’re happy for those guys to go find time to play. There’s other players who understand being sub and being on the peripheral of a squad and they’re impact players at times in the season and know they’re going to get minimal playing time in the season and they accept it.