Alhaji Ali Mohammed Abdallah, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Borno state has expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari over his role in ensuring that security is restored to Borno state despite attacks by insurgents. In his new year message, Abdallah also thanked the state governor, Babagana Zulum for his selflessness and sincerity of purpose in managing the affairs of the state since the assumption of office in 2019. This according to him, has won the governor massive praises and applause from Nigerians. He added that so far, Zulum has performed his job as the Chief Security Officer of Borno state creditably well.The APC chieftain said rather than score President Buhari low in the area of insecurity, the people of Borno are grateful to him for all that he has done so far, especially all the support he has given Governor Zulum . Insecurity: Senator Nora Dadu’ut Pledges Partnership With… Insecurity: China To Send Criminal Investigation Experts To… He said “If  you are looking at Buhari at the national level, you may have a reason to say that he has disappointed a lot of people or he hasn’t met expectations. But for us in Borno, we don’t have reasons to score Buhari low in the areas of insecurity. The indices are very clear”. “Before Buhari came, more than 20 local government areas were under Boko Haram occupation and many couldn’t travel more than a kilometre. Today, about 18 communities in Borno state have been resettled”. “ Out of the 20 local government areas that were under Boko Haram occupation before Buhari came in 2015, only four are no-go areas today. Even at that, there is a semblance of peace in those local governments. Right now, we are thinking of resettlement in those places. So, the story is far, far better than before”. “The president also approved the construction of 10,000 resettlement houses out of which about 5,000 has been built so far.  The president is also very compassionate. Anytime Governor Zulum requests to see him, he gives him all the attention. The moment there is a crisis and the governor tells the president there is a crisis, he listens to him”. “There was also a time all the Service Chiefs came to Borno. They told the governor that Mr. President asked us to come and meet you to tell us what you want us to do. That is huge. We have to acknowledge that President Buhari has really done a lot in terms of restoring security in Borno state but there are lot of works that still need to be done” he said.