Ekiti Concerned Citizens’ Group (ECCG), has warned politicians  from the Ekiti South against working against the agenda of the zone to produce the governor in the 2022 Governorship poll. The group vowed to make clear statement on the age long Marginalisation of Ekiti in the June 18,2022 gubernatorial poll. The group’s Chairman, Comrade, Femi Babalola, while briefing journalists about the activities of the group towards actualizing its goal disclosed that all governorship aspirants find the zone were carried along in its activities . PDP Nullifies Ekiti Ward Congresses Integrity Made PDP Invite Ali-Modu Sheriff To Be National… The group said insisted  that the All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) and other parties  must pick their candidates from Ekiti South Senatorial District. Babalola said: “Governor Kayode Fayemi promised the south in 2018 and we are now bothered that he is changing the goal post now . We are really bothered, but we thank God that the people are really sympathising with us. “If the bigwigs in the party that produced Governor Fayemi could be saying that Presidency should come to the South 2023, why are they now depriving the south governorship  in Ekiti?” “Let me say that the people of the South will regard any governorship aspirant from the South that takes deputy governorship slot from any candidate as “Judas Iscariot”. What we want is governorship” . Fuming over the alleged systematic  infusion of what he described as “apartheid” in Ekiti politics,the group added : “All aspirants from Ekiti South have  the competence, experience, comportment, skills and mastery of Ekiti to successfully steer the ship of Ekiti State as Governor. POLL “These aspirants are strongly recommended to their respective parties for internal mechanisms that will be favourable to Ekiti south senatorial district. “All qualified voters  are hereby urged to vote for any of the southern aspirants of their choice in the forthcoming party primaries. We wish to appeal most passionately to the  electorate to vote wisely during the governorship election coming up this year, in order to secure the future of our children”. Babalola added that the  group with membership drawn from different parts of the State are striving, not only to promote the essence of Ekiti’s homogeneity, but to propagate the core values of fairness, equity and justice, for which the State is reputed and respected. “It has been difficult to salvage the South from the perennial pestilence of marginalisation, because the district was not able to speak and advance its course  with one voice against the recurrent  imposition in the past elections. “We are happy that aspirants of a major political party had agreed to work together in their primary. More disturbing is the fact that the relegated south has the highest number of local governments in the State”. PDP National Leadership Wades Into Ekiti Crisis Electoral Act Bill: House Of Representatives To Harmonise With… Babalola warned that there should be no room for do-or-die politics and its concomitant thuggery and political brigandage in the coming primaries and the main election. “Political parties should focus on credible aspirants, their skills, knowledge, talents and experience that will endear them to the electorate in order to facilitate the progress and welfare of Ekiti people”. The group considered  it outrageous, the brazen marginalisation of the  South, since the advent of democracy in 1999, saying time to correct the anomaly is now for the purpose of equity, fairness, justice and the future generation of Ekiti.