DAMATURU – The Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, today launched the distribution of 100,000 educational textbooks and laboratory equipment to public schools across the state. Governor Buni said the procurement and distribution of text books to the schools was to support government’s drive to revitalize basic education to provide a strong foundation for the development of education in Yobe State. “I am particularly delighted with this occasion marking the launching of the Maiden Education Day and Enhanced School Feeding Programme and Distribution of 100,000 Text books and modern laboratory equipment to secondary schools in the state. RED ALERT: New Ransomware Attacking Organisational Networks… I Endorsed Tinubu For Presidency In 2019, I Have Rejected Him… The Governor expressed satisfaction with the state’s performance in the education sector, saying “we have strong reasons to celebrate the impressive achievements recorded in the basic and secondary education. “I am particularly impressed with the usage of modern instruments and application of a combination of conventional and innovative techniques in teaching and learning processes which the Ministry invented in our schools” he said. Gov Buni said “I am excited that we can today proudly tell our stories of success on the account of hard work and commitment of the state government following the declaration of State of Emergency on Education by this administration.” He noted that the declaration of emergency has yielded impressive performance by students in national examinations. Similarly, the Governor launched improved school feeding programme with chicken and egg introduced to the menu of public boarding schools across the state. POLL Meanwhile, the Governor has declared 1st July of every year to be celebrated as Education Day in the state. The state Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education Dr Muhammad Sani described the success recorded in the education sector as unprecedented. “Education in Yobe state has moved many steps ahead, the future of the state is very bright and prosperous,” he observed.