ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) says the forthcoming convention of the ruling party would be rancour-free. Secretary of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), John James Akpanudedehe, stated this in a new year message he sent to Nigerians to mark 2022, stating that the party can now report real and positive progress. In compliance with the mandate given it by the NEC of the party, Senator Akpanudedehe said Gov Mai Mala Buni led CECPC has steered the party away from the mortal danger that Threatened the APC. Ekiti Guber: Group Petitions APC Caretaker Chairman Over Fayemi,… Insecurity: Path To Nationhood Unpredictable, Says Buhari In New… “In fulfillment of the NEC mandate, CECPC in 2021 respectively and successfully conducted ward, local government, and state congresses to elect substantial party executives. On 20th December 2021, at its 18th regular meeting, it deliberated on the planned National Convention and resolved to set up sub-committees on budgeting and other relevant substructures for the National Convention. All is now set for the conduct of a rancour-free National Convention. “Following CECPC’s conduct of a nationwide membership registration, revalidation and register update exercise, APC is now unarguably the most populous political party in Nigeria with a membership base of over 40 million registered members. “The caretaker committee has established a truly unified, strong, repositioned and progressive political unit that has gone on to win a number of critical elections across the country. “Under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni, the CECPC has created a member-centred party structure – one that guarantees the full participation of all members in decision making and Party activities. “It has won into the APC fold three serving state Governors and scores of parliamentarians from other political parties. POLL It has successfully reviewed the APC Constitution. It has scrutinised and paid for the inherited debts with respect to the services to the party in the past administration. “It has ended and resolved inherited litigations and court cases instituted by many aggrieved members against the party for various reasons by reaching out to the aggrieved members who have consequently responded to the CECPC reconciliation. “It has entrenched stronger internal democracy in the party as demonstrated in the transparent candidate nomination processes and congresses. “It has purchased the building housing the APC National Secretariat which was previously leased and has been subsequently named as Buhari House, giving APC a permanent abode in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. “It has established a National Reconciliation Committee under the leadership of Sen. Abdulahi Adamu to reach out to aggrieved members, in the current dispensation, with the view to resolving areas of misunderstanding and proactively preventing a crisis. The committee has received various memoranda and has recorded a good number of resolutions that have improved the Party’s cohesion. He also reeled out the achievements of the administration and urged Nigerians to continue to support the party in 2022 and beyond. God Has Destined Ekiti To Move Forward In 2022 – Adesokan New Year: Support Buhari To End Banditry, Kidnappings, Oba Alabi… “As a result of the economic stabilisation and expansion strategies of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, the country has witnessed the revival of previously dormant factories and the establishment of countless new ones, especially in the agro and allied sectors of the economy. It is heartwarming that the factories have created multiple direct and indirect job opportunities by processing raw materials sourced locally. “This government has made record investments and intervention in improving the nation’s security architecture. The APC leadership commends the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Administration for relentlessly supporting our security forces with enhanced and sophisticated air, land and sea defence assets to raise the level of their operational readiness, efficiency and capacities so as to ensure that the country returns to its safe and peaceful state.