LAGOS  – For Nigerians not to go hungry this year as foreseen by some agricultural experts, stakeholders in the sector have identified ways in which the sector can do better than what it recorded last year. In separate interviews with Daily Independent, stakeholders while speaking on their expectations for the sector this year, seek better funding of the sector with low interest rate, to be more serious about irrigation and promotion of local production. They also want governments to be more proactive, create an enabling environment for the players in the industry to thrive and also introduce sustainable policies that will boost the sector and reduce importation of foods during the year. How Agribusiness Can Play Critical Role In Economic… Be Sensitive To Global Issue Of Climate Change, Don Admonishes… Emmanuel Ijewere, Vice President of the Nigeria Agribusiness Group (NAGB), stated that the sector did not fare well last year, but that there is a bit more consciousness by government, departments, agencies and ministries that Nigeria’s future is in agriculture. “It is our hope that this will be translated to something meaningful. I noticed that in the number of budgets that we have seen both at the federal and state levels there are marginal increases, but it is not the question of the marginal increases but it is the question of the attitude of the state. “Have they weaned themselves out of the mentality that we will go to Abuja to collect our monthly allocation? Or we can internally generate by helping our people to raise the GDP in the agricultural sphere. It is not the talk that is important, but it is the attitude of government officials to create an enabling environment for farmers and players in the sector to thrive. Ijewere said allocation of lands has been badly corrupt and that in a number of states, the issue about farm produce moving across the country has a lot of obstacles and that the state government should help reduce post-harvest losses. “Those are the things that can make the year better. They need to understand that farmers and those in the agricultural space are not beggars; just give them the ability to do well. POLL “Government should also stop interfering by offering free things like inputs and the likes to the farmers, because it ends up in the hands and control of politicians who have no business in agriculture. “All they need to do is to help the farmers, give more encouragement to the various farmers and help those in the agricultural space like the transporters, semi processors, make it easier for them to carry out their trade and then we can have food arriving at cheaper rates,” he said. Prince Wale Oyekoya, an agriculturist in his view urged the government to release farmlands to the real farmers with title, improve on the rural infrastructures and curb insecurity. He also called for funding from the government to the farmers while urging the Federal Government to focus on real farmers and not political or portfolio farmers. Oyekoya added that the government must introduce people oriented and sustainable policies and also reduce importation of foods in 2022 and encourage local production. Cattle Vaccination: Firm To Improve Health Management, Enhance… Africa Processes Less Than 10% Of Cashew Production – Faseru,… For Nma Okoroji, President, National Coconut Producers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria (NACOPPMAN), said she is expecting the actualization of 10,000 hectares of Coconut Sufficiency in Nigeria (COSIN) plantation project in at least 20 Coconut viable States to make coconut sufficient in the country by 2027. Arch Kabir Ibrahim, President, All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), said farmers are hopeful that things will be much better in the year if agricultural policy, National Agricultural Technology and Innovation Plan (NATIP) is properly implemented in partnership with all stakeholders such as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN) among others. Nurudeen Tiamiyu, National Vice President, Tilapia and Aquaculture Developers Association of Nigeria (TADAN) stated that expectations for the sector includes less than five percent interest rate for loans for fish farmers to cushion the effects of high cost of inputs and that farmers with standing loans should be given more time in tenure to pay back else they would probably go under. Dr Victor Iyama, President, Federation of Agricultural Commodity Association of Nigeria (FACAN), stated that farmers need to stop depending on rain fell agriculture, that the nation must be more serious about irrigation, so that there will be all year round production. He said if this is done, more successes will be recorded in terms of food production this year. Ezekiel Ibrahim Mam, National President of the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN) while corroborating Iyama stated that the country cannot rely on rainfall cropping, a that all the 36 states of the federation and the FCT should really get involved in dry season farming.