Thailand said Tuesday it detected the country’s first ever official case of African swine fever, threatening a prolonged supply shortage and price increases in pork and related products. The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives said a surface swab sample from a slaughterhouse in Nakhon Pathom, a province adjacent to Bangkok, came out positive. Authorities will limit movements of pigs within a five-kilometer radius of where the sample was taken. They will also consider mass cullings of pigs and boars that present symptoms of the disease. Compensation will be paid to farmers affected, the ministry’s Department of Livestock Development said. Ugandan Writer Charged Over Tweets Against Museveni, Son Gov Bello Felicitates Senate President, Lawan At 63 In a government probe over the weekend, blood samples and surface swabs were taken from 12 farms and slaughterhouses. Only one out of 309 samples tested positive. African swine fever has swept through Africa, Europe, and Asia in recent years. While being harmless to humans, the virus causes pigs a hemorrhagic fever and has a high mortality rate. Hundreds of millions of pigs have been killed due to the disease. The disease has created a shortage in pork products, resulting in price surges globally. According to the Swine Raisers Association of Thailand, farmgate pig prices in Thailand were quoted on Jan 2. at around 105 baht ($3.14) per kilogram, roughly 33% more expensive than a year earlier. Pork is a common ingredient in Thai dishes such as Pad Gaprao stir fries and Moo Kratha barbecue. But Thais have been seeing pork out of stock at grocery stores over the past year. The prolonged supply shortage made some residents believe the disease has been in Thailand for a while. The country has seen a large number of farm pig deaths over the past year, but authorities have attributed other viral diseases as the cause. POLL The cabinet approved 574 million baht to compensate small swine raisers in 56 provinces where pigs had been culled to prevent a spread of any swine disease. The government had repeatedly denied an outbreak of African swine fever, which only brought allegations of a cover-up. The serious probe into the African swine fever was triggered after a report from Kasetsart University published on Friday. A miniature pet pig was brought to the university’s lab early December for an autopsy, and its result turned out to be positive. The owner of the pet pig claimed that two other pigs in the household died later. To tackle the pork shortage, Commerce Minister Jurin Laksanawisit last Thursday ordered a temporary suspension of swine exports. The export ban will last until at least April 5. Thailand supplied 18 million pigs to the domestic market, and exported one million to neighboring countries such as Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, and Myanmar. This year, the supply is expected to drop sharply to 13 million.