YENAGOA – A group, the Transparency In Petroleum Exploration and Development Initiative (TIPEDI), has knocked the detractors of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, and the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, over their attacks on the duo. The group warned such persons against distracting Sylva and Wabote from “the good work they are doing for the country.” TIPEDI, in a statement on Thursday by its Director of Field Operations, Derek Igho, said those bent on pulling down the minister and the NCDMB boss should steer clear of them. 2023: North East, North Central Legislators Back Yahaya Bello Approval Of Rail Line Project: Buhari Scores Another Milestone… In particular, Igho advised Timi Frank and one Jackson Ude, to desist from being used as vehicles for campaign of calumny against Wabote whom he noted was their target. He said, “From our investigations, it has become clear that the entire campaign of calumny against Engr. Simbi Wabote is being orchestrated by forces that are no longer comfortable with his many achievements as Executive Secretary of the Local Content Board. “But rather than coming out openly themselves to take him on, they resort to using Jackson Ude and lately Timi Frank, both of whom are well known for such activities to be their hatchet men. “But then any right thinking person, will rather commend Engr. Wabote for resorting to legal means to seek redress for the unwarranted, frivolous and libelous allegations that were made against him by Jackson Ude, who thought that because he was hiding in the United States, the long arm of the law would not catch up with him.” The group described Wabote as “a technocrat, who is well known within the oil and gas industry for his operational philosophy of transparency, accountability and zero tolerance for wastes.” POLL “As an independent group, TIPEDI has been closely monitoring the case in the US and we know that several motions filed by Jackson Ude’s lawyers at the Court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, USA, have failed as the trial Judge had ruled against them. The last of which was on December 22nd when the Judge gave them deadline of January 4th 2022 to file their “Dispositive Response” which they had been delaying. “It is, therefore, obvious that with the ongoing Libel suit against Jackson Ude in the US not going well for him, there is no more hiding place, so rather than focusing on proving their allegations in Court, they have resorted to their well known tactic of spreading lies on social media. All in their desperate bid to portray Engr. Simbi Wabote in negative light before the public”, the statement added. It advised members of the public to discountenance the falsehood being peddled against Wabote as he did not commit any crime by serving Nigeria diligently.