ABUJA – The Middle Belt Forum (MBF) on Monday raised the alarm over plot to frustrate pow­er shift to the South in 2023. Berating the Northern Leaders of Thought (NLT) for opposing power rotation to the South in 2023, MBF said that any threat against power shift to the South in 2023 will portend danger to the unity and progress of Nigeria. The MBF added that an­other Northerner after Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari will amount to violating pow­er shift arrangement. Obasa, Lagos Speaker, To Chair Anchor University Lecture… Lukman’s Forced Resignation Retrogressive — APC Rebirth Tells… The Forum, in a statement by its National President, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, said that con­sidering the circumstances the Northern elders met and membership of those who attended the meeting on Jan­uary 15, 2022 at the Arewa House in Kaduna, it was clear that there were subterranean forces aimed at frustrating the power shift arrangement to the South in 2023. “By May 2023, President Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner, should have completed two tenures of four years each as provided for in the Nigerian constitution. To insist that another Northern­er should continue in power beyond May 2023 amounts to violating the arrangement on power shift that has become the norm since the return of democracy in May 1999. “As the umbrella organi­sation for all ethnic nation­alities in the Middle Belt, the MBF is confident that Nigeria is blessed with competent and qualified persons from all sec­tions of the country who can offer altruistic leadership in advancing national develop­ment. “Since 1999, power shift has not only ensured equity in power-sharing procedure between the North and South, it has also reduced tension amongst Nigeria’s diverse ethnic groups in the strug­gle for power. After a careful perusal of the communiqué issued at the end of a hur­riedly packaged meeting by the NLT, it is evidently clear that there is a grand ploy to truncate power shift to the South by 2023. “We recall that after our consultative meeting that took place in September 2021 in Akwanga, Nasarawa State, the Forum did not only express its resounding sup­port for power rotation to the South, the MBF also noted that for fairness to hold sway, it was irretrievably necessary for power to return to the South in 2023. POLL “Our position was hinged on the fact that the power rota­tion has tremendously assist­ed in mitigating political ten­sion by creating a platform for power-sharing in the country. As we have always declared in the past, the MBF wishes to restate once again that any threat against power shift to the South in 2023 is akin to courting frightening dangers to the unity and progress of Nigeria. “We stand for justice and freedom for all. The MBF is completely against the NLT’s opposition to power shift in 2023. Those who met in Kadu­na at the weekend must halt further attempts to create po­litical turmoil for our nation. “Members of the NLT are not political leaders; they are forerunners of some nebulous political forces de­termined to foist fiery dark clouds over our country’s po­litical skies. To insist that the power-sharing arrangement should be jettisoned now is an open invitation to anarchy that may ultimately lead to the breakup of the country,” MBF said. The Forum reminded Nigerians that “Middle Belt has always insisted that pow­er must shift to the South in 2023. In the event that the South is unable to present a presidential candidate, we have confirmed our readiness to support the emergence of a presidential candidate of the Middle Belt extraction for the 2023 polls. We are in agreement with the South­ern socio-cultural groups in the struggle for power shift to the South in 2023. “Under the President Bu­hari-led administration, Ni­gerians are witnessing one of their worst moments. With insecurity ravaging many parts of Nigeria, poor eco­nomic policies by the current administration have reduced our nation into the global headquarters of poverty. Mental Health: Lagos Tackling Challenges With Building Of First… Oyo CP Leads Routine Patrol Team To Onigari, Assures Commuters… “Not only have hundreds of communities in the Mid­dle Belt region be destroyed and completely taken over by foreign invaders, thousands of our people have been massacred in cold blood as deadly herdsmen and other criminals continue to unleash their dreadful reign of terror on defenceless Nigerians. “The Middle Belt region is convinced that President Buhari has not demonstrated enough courage and political will to confront these monsters of insecurity. Thus, it is clear that only power shift offers an opportunity to deal with these terror gangs that are alleged to enjoy the sup­port of some rogue Northern politicians yet to be exposed by the government. ­ “Once again, we call on political parties to disregard the chicanery of these lead­ers of the so-called North and their opposition to zoning in 2023. Those who gathered in Kaduna last weekend were political jobbers engaged in carrying the commands of their masters that are lurking in the shadows. Therefore, the communiqué of that meeting should be contemptuously ig­nored.”