The Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited, one of the newest insurance licensees in the country, through its Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has provided a group life insurance cover to the tune of N1.73billion for the Super Eagles and a Personal Accident Insurance covers for each of the players amidst the ongoing AFCON tournament in the Republic of Cameroun. Recall that late last year, Stanbic IBTC and the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) announced a meaningful partnership that would see Stanbic IBTC, through its insurance subsidiary, Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited, provide Group Life Insurance cover worth N1.73 billion and Total Personal Accident insurance cover for each player of the national team, to the tune of N583 million annually for the next three years. By this development, Stanbic IBTC becomes the official insurance sponsor of the Super Eagles as the MoU signed between the financial organisation and the NFF came into effect officially this year, 2022. Insurers Suffer Second Costliest Year On Record At $120bn –… AIO President Implores Insurers To Unite In Tackling Low… According to Dr Demola Sogunle, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, the partnership is predicated on youth empowerment, which is one of the pillars of the institution, and football development. Amaju Pinnick, President of NFF, further explained that the partnership is in huge favour of the players while also entails empowering female journalists by sponsoring them to cover matches played by the Super Eagles. Stanbic IBTC, as a foremost gender-balanced zealot, has sponsored four female sports correspondents: Funmilayo Adeyemo, Justina Aniefiok, Janefrances Nweze, and Faith Meregbunam to AFCON 2021. “The 2022 AFCON tournament has 24 participating teams. Nigeria bringing home the cup is currently the most anticipated expectation. Unlike previous years, the Super Eagles will go head-to-head with the Pharaohs of Egypt in the anticipated match, knowing that Stanbic IBTC Insurance fully covers them.” It was stated in a statement.