LAGOS  – The Address Homes Limited, a real estate development firm dedicated to the attainment, development, and management of bespoke deluxe contemporary homes, has added two new housing brand schemes into the Nigerian home market as revealed by its management. Christened “LUXURIA” and ‘Dan & Dan’ Apartments by The Address Homes, the two brands, on completion, are expected to deliver cosy homes that combine high class contemporary architectural design with high-level finishes within Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria. The construction of the two deluxe contemporary homes, which commenced in 2021, is expected to be completed in 2023. How DBN’s Grants Of N439bn Credit Facility Will Boost 180… CDC/BII Partners FirstBank To Support Women, Small Business… Located on Alexander Road, directly opposite St Saviours School, and close to the Lekki Ikoyi Bridge roundabout, with easy access to the mainland through the Third Mainland Bridge, LUXURIA, a 2-towers imposing masterpiece, on Ground plus 14 suspended floors, comprises of the following: 4 Bedroom apartments, 4 Bedroom maisonettes (each on about 500 Square metres) and massive Penthouses covering about 1,000 Square metres each. Other features of the architectural apartments include the following: lawn tennis court, swimming pool, well equipped professional gym, adequate Parking Spaces, 2 Fully fitted modern kitchens, Dining room, long views through spaces, maids room, Innovative Lighting system, Balcony and Smart home system. The Dan & Dan Apartments by The Address Homes, a Waterfront fully serviced mini estate, is located directly on Banana Road, Ikoyi. It comprises of 27 units of fully serviced apartments, which includes -3 nos Penthouses -12 nos Marionettes and -12 nos Terrace Houses, all with 4 bedrooms each plus servant quarters. Upon completion, the estate will have the following features: -private jetty, swimming pool – 24 hours power – Security Personnel – CCTV – Dry and Wet Kitchens, gym and many more. Dr. Bisi Onasanya, FCA,The Address Homes, while speaking on the two new projects, the chairman and company is to deliver unique services with modern functional homes to make our clients live better and in luxury. founder, noted that the mission of the POLL “In creating these luxury homes, we took into consideration the need for space optimization, comfort, security, child-friendly environment and quality of materials. At The Address Homes, we build homes with clients at the core and heart of our processes,” he submitted. “To become a proud owner of one of these breathtaking luxury homes, the company is offering the units at very reasonable prices, with an initial 30% deposit. “Both luxury projects offer an ideal environment to raise a family as well as plethora of well thought out comforts with amenities like swimming pools, gym, meditation centers, electronic security, manicured lawns, touch-button responsive fixtures, landscaped garden, etc. which adds to the value of life and makes people live better”.