LAGOS – As events leading to the National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) continue to unfold, a Progressive Youth Summit organized by the Cross Rivers State Youth Lobby Committee held in Calabar over the weekend with the theme “Future is now” and reinforced the position of the youths in negotiating a better deal for Nigerian youths starting with the convention and the general election come 2023. The National Youth Leader of the APC, Barr Ismaeel Ahmed, in his address, stated that this was a progression of the Lobby committee’s agenda to mobilise the party’s youths to occupy the leadership of the party and informed the youths that all NWC and NEC positions of the party were available for them to vie for in the coming APC convention. He commended the Cross River State Lobby Group for the effort in mobilising over 25,000 youths from the 183 wards in the state to attend the summit and pledged to continue working closely with the state party apparatus. Anyam Vows To Create Over 20,000 Sports- Related Jobs In Benue APC Youths Sack Buni’s Committee, Set Up PYM- CECPC To… This, he said, in furtherance of the efforts of the APC National Youth lobby committee that was set up by the APC Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Committee led by the Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala  Buni which began in Abuja with the progressives youth conference and thereafter the setting up of the regional lobby committees and the recent gathering of over 30,000 young people in Ibadan during the South West Progressives Youth Festival. Speaking also at the summit, the Governor of Cross Rivers State, Prof Ben Ayade, advocated for the youth, stating that the future is now and the youth must take their place now and continue to organize and mobilize. He noted that dedication and determination will be required to achieve the desired goal and the youths must learn to look beyond their background and the conditions of their birth. Earlier in his welcome address, the chairman of the local organising committee, Oden Ewa, whilst appreciating Governor Ayade for his immense contributions towards the empowerment of thousands of young people in the state, noted that a youthful successor to the Governor would be the crowning glory of the efforts. A member of the National Youth Lobby Committee, who is also the Commissioner for Finance, Asuquo Ekpenyong, speaking during the summit, reiterated the position of the youths in ensuring that they continue to have a better deal in the scheme of things n the party and in the government. He used the opportunity of the summit to appreciate the Governor for his commitment to youth inclusion and empowerment. He stressed that the job going forward is the strengthening of the impact so made by deepening the commitment across Nigeria. POLL The summit, which had more than 20,000 young people drawn from the 16 local governments of Cross Rivers State, also had performances from award-winning Kizz Daniel and Iyanya, speeches from Iyinoluwa Aboyade, founder of Future Africa, and Kunle Lawal of the Electoral College. It also had Gambo Monzo, SA, Political, to President Muhammadu Buhari,  Chairman APC Cross Rivers State, Alphonsus Eba, Kanu Agabi SAN, the Deputy Governor, Prof Ivara-Esu, the Speaker of Cross River State Assembly, Eteng Jonas-Williams, Senator Ita-Giwa and other members of the National Lobby Committee, including Baffa Saleh, Fatima Kakuri, Abubakar Fakai Sadiq, and many other youth leaders across the APC in Cross Rivers State and national.