LAGOS  – Fate, they say, has a way of playing out on the lives of indi­viduals and other entities and that is exact­ly the case this time as the Liverpool talismanic duo of Egypt’s Mohammed Salah and Senegal’s Sadio Mane will later today go head-to-head in the final of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cam­eroon. Incidentally, fate played another one on the two ear­lier when, during the draw for the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying playoff scheduled for next month, their countries were pitched against one anoth­er. But later today, the two countries would decide who goes home with the AFCON title as they qual­ified for the final at the expense of Burkina Faso (for Senegal) and the host Cameroon respectively. The Pharaohs of Egypt have been seven times winners of the competi­tion, thus making them the most successful set in the AFCON among others on the continent. On their own, the Teranga Lions are searching for their first title having previous­ly lost twice in the final. NBA, Hennessy Launch First Floating Basketball Court In Africa 3SC Promise To Build On Heartland Massacre This Weekend Overall, the Teranga Li­ons have made 16 appear­ances at the AFCON since making their debut at the 1965 edition hosted by Tu­nisia, which incidentally was the fifth edition of the biannual competition. They were losing fi­nalists in 2002 when Mali hosted the competition. In that year, the Teranga Li­ons lost to Cameroon hav­ing earlier beaten Nigeria 2-1 in the semifinal to set up that clash with the In­domitable Lions. In the keenly contest­ed final of that year, full and extra time could not produce any goal as both teams fired blank, leading to the gamble of penalty shootout where Cameroon triumphed 3-2. In the last edition of AFCON in Egypt penulti­mate year, the final pitted Senegal against Algeria and the second minute goal scored by Al Sadd of Qatar forward, Bounedjah of Algeria ended Senegal’s hope of breaking the duck and entering the enviable class of former African champions. Thus, since overcoming the Stallions of Burkina Faso to set up today’s final with Pharaohs, the ques­tion has remained wheth­er Teranga Lions would be first time lucky in three attempts at the final. But they are faced with a very resurgent Egyptian side whose strengths are in coordinated play as against possessive play. This is an Egyptian side that has seen tremendous improvements since they were completely outplayed and outclassed by Nigeria in their opening Group D game. POLL Egypt have had very ro­bust and successful cam­paign at the AFCON with seven triumphs to their name. They won the first edition in 1957 as Sudan staged the very first AF­CON. The Pharaohs also won in 1959 when it was hosted by the United Arab Republic (UAR), a sover­eign enclave between Syria and Egypt. But today, it’s classified as being hosted by Egypt. The dominant Egyptian side also won in 1986 on home soil before having a torrid time achieving the same feat again. They had to wait for another 13 years to win the title in 1998 when Burkina Faso hosted it. Seven years lat­er, the Pharaohs had a hat trick of victories at the AFCON, winning it thrice in a row in 2006, 2008 and 2010 in Egypt, Ghana and Angola respectively. Like mentioned, the chance of Senegal lifting the AFCON title for the first time is threatened by an Egyptian side that has displayed remarkable re­silience against Cameroon at the semifinal. The Indomitable Lions, it will be recalled at that semifinal, seemed weren’t mentally prepared for spot kicks. They probably were expecting to wrap up the game in normal time, not realising that en route to reaching the semis, Egypt had faced more formidable oppositions in Nigeria, Cote d’Ivoire and Morocco. Comparatively, the hosts were on the kinder side of the draw and had faced relatively weaker op­ponents in Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Ethiopia, The Gambia and Comoros be­fore reaching the semifinal and in the end, the Pha­raohs managed the game excellently and survived the initial onslaught from them to set up today’s final battle against a Senegalese side that will be attempt­ing to rewrite their histo­ry and etch their name in the list of winners of the coveted continental com­petition. We’re Going To Jos For The Points, Boasts Rivers Utd Manager Wikki Coach Groans Under Heavy Defeat, Vows To Return Against… HEAD-TO-HEAD In the past 22 years, the Teranga Lions have met the Pharaohs on four oc­casions. On July 9, 2000, Senegal hosted Egypt at the famous Stade Leopol­do Sedar Senghor Stadi­um in Dakar. It was a 2022 World Cup qualifier and both teams failed to find the back of the net as the match ended goalless. The return leg was at the mag­nificent Cairo Internation­al Stadium on May 6, 2021 and the Pharaohs piped the Teranga Lions 1-0. Both teams also found themselves in the same group during the qualifi­ers for the 2015 AFCON. In the first of the double header played on Septem­ber 5, 2014, Senegal defeat­ed the Egyptians 2-0 at the Stade Leopold Sedar Seng­hor in Dakar as Mame Bi­ram Diouf and Sadio Mane scored to silence their visi­tors. The return leg at the Cairo International Stadi­um on November 15, 2014 also saw the Senegalese doing the double over the Egyptians as Biram Diouf netted in the eighth min­ute to not only silence the vocif­erous Egyptian crowd but gave his side the whole three points. ROAD TO AFCON 2021 FINAL Egypt were pooled in Group D alongside Nigeria, Guinea Bis­sau and Sudan at the first hur­dle for the competition. They started slowly, narrowly losing to Nigeria in the opening game. Thereafter they defeated both Guinea Bissau and Sudan 1-0. In the round of 16, they beat Côte d’Ivoire 5-2 on penalties after goalless full and extra time. In the quarterfinal, they came from behind to defeat Morocco 2-1. For the semifinal, the Pharaohs dis­patched the host, Cameroon, 3-1 on penalties after a goalless full and extra time. Senegal on the other hand were pooled alongside Zimba­bwe, Guinea and Malawi and the Lions started with a hard fought 1-0 win over Zimbabwe. In their second and third group matches, they drew goalless with Guinea and Malawi. At the round of 16, Senegal beat Cape Verde 2-0 to set up a quarterfinal clash with Equa­torial Guinea whom they dis­patched 3-1 before going the same score line against Burkina Faso at the semifinal. SQUAD STRENGTH The strength of the Egyptian side lies on their cohesion and coordination. The Pharaohs have always presented a compact side because most of their play­ers ply their trades in the Egyp­tian Premier League and thus understand themselves very well, having featured together at club sides. For example, starting from 2006 when they won the title in a row, the Pharaohs paraded 20 domestic league players out of the 23 players that won the title on home soil. In the next edition in Ghana in 2008, they went, saw and conquered the continent with 17 home based players out of the 23 players. Also in the next edition in 2010 in Angola, they had 19 players donning colours of various Egyptian Premier League clubs out of the 23 players on parade. In the 2017 edition where they lost the final to Cameroon, they had 12 players from the home front and this year where they are billed to face Senegal later today, the Pharaohs have in their midst 22 domestic league players and since losing to Nigeria in the opening game, they have shown resilience, tact and coordination to make it to the final, dispatch­ing such formidable oppositions like Morocco and Côte d’Ivoire. While Mohammed Salah is the key figure in the team, such play­ers like Mohammed Elneny of Arsenal and Mohammed Hassan Trezeguet of Aston Villa have combined very well with other players, particularly the home based ones to present very formi­dable team that has continued to show massive signs of improve­ment and ready to add the eighth title to their trophy haul. This is one area the Teranga Lions must watch out very seriously. In this competition, Egypt have seen little or no dominance in possession but they have always absorbed the pressure and look to open up the defence of their opponents. Despite not dominat­ing possession, it has also been very hard to open their own defence, this underlining their compactness at the back. For Senegal, they have a rich depth of squad strength classi­fied as the most formidable and threatening on the continent for now. Apart from Mane, the unar­guably one of the most danger­ous marksmen in the world pres­ently, the team, whose strength is in the players donning colours of big teams in Europe, has main­tained consistency lately and is also the spillover of the team that lost the final to Algeria in the last edition. The current Teranga Lions team is replete with first team players in top European leagues. In Edouard Mendy of Chelsea, Senegal boasts of the best goal­keeper in Europe and one of the best in the world. The team has some very expe­rienced players like Bamba Sarr of Bayern Munich. Though not very regular at the German gi­ants, his contributions in this tournament have been good. The 30-year-old defender has a rich vein of experience going into today’s final.Another expe­rienced defender that the Pha­raohs would have to contain with is the 30-year-old Napoli defend­er, Kalifou Koulibaly. He has kept his position under Coach Cisse and has been instrumental to Senegalese run so far, though he missed the first two games of this AFCON due to COVID-19. Others who have made Sen­egalese thick include 25 years old PSG’s Abdou Diallo, Crystal Palace Cheikhou Kouyate, PSG’s Idissa Guaye, Leicester Ciyy, Nampalys Mendy, Olympique Marselles Pape Gueye, Ismailia Sarr of Watford, and of course the very dependable Liverpool playmaker, Mane, among other greats in the team. Obviously this will be a very testy final as it will involve a team made most­ly up of domestic league players and one with the best from the European leagues. Coach Godwin Izilien of Nige­ria, while speaking on the chanc­es of both sides, said the two tactically best sides are meeting, predicting a tough match. “Looking at how the games have gone, these two sides have shown that they are good tacti­cally and I am not surprise both are meeting in the final on Sun­day. “For who will win, it is open but I know so many people will want Senegal to win because they have not won before. That is on sentiment but I think both countries are good to win this,” he said. Speaking on the match today, El Hadji Diouf, a Teranga Lions legend, was quoted as urging his countrymen to go a step further to bring the elusive title, saying all Senegalese are behind them, admitting though that victory won’t come easy. “I have hope in these players to go and erase past failures at this stage; we are all behind them and I know they can do it. “Winning will not be easy but it is achievable because we are hungrier than them (Egypt) and I know the spirit is there with them in the camp,” he was quoted as saying by an online medium.