According to Fichajes, Chelsea could be set for a busy summer ahead as Thomas Tuchel looks to address the weak points in the team, especially in the attacking department. In an attempt to add more quality in the final third, the club have targeted RB Leipzig playmaker Christopher Nkunku. A product of the Paris Saint-Germain youth academy, Nkunku has enjoyed immense success since his move to RB Leipzig in the summer of 2019. In just two and a half years, the attacker has racked up 115 competitive appearances, scoring 31 goals while providing 40 assists. A majority of his goal contributions have come in the new season, with Nkunku being involved in a total of 35 goals in just 31 competitive appearances. Seven of his goals have come in the UEFA Champions League, including a hat-trick against Manchester City. De Ligt’s Juventus future In Doubt With Chelsea And Barca Keen Chelsea Through To Club World Cup Final The Frenchman’s consistent performances have led to him becoming one of the top-performing attackers in all of Europe. Needless to say, it has also made him one of the sought-after talents in the market, as many believe the player could leave the Bundesliga after the end of the season. Christopher Nkunku was notably linked with a move to Liverpool last season, who are reportedly scouting him as a potential long-term replacement for Sadio Mane. However, the Reds could now face stiff competition from league rivals Chelsea, with Thomas Tuchel keen on moving on from the likes of Timo Werner and Christian Pulisic. Werner has been already linked with a potential exit from Stamford Bridge at the end of the season. The German is being scouted by Borussia Dortmund, as a potential replacement for Erling Haaland, whereas Pulisic could be on the move as well, after failing to establish himself as a key asset to Tuchel’s attacking setup. Their potential departures could pave the way for Chelsea to sanction a summer swoop for Christopher Nkunku. A playmaker by trade, the Frenchman’s ability to operate out wide and even as a false nine makes him an ideal fit for Tuchel’s tactical philosophy. The attacker also offers impressive productivity, which could come in handy amid the struggles of Romelu Lukaku.