ABUJA – Former Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum, Without a doubt, Salihu Mohd Lukman has advised leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to be bold to admit shortcomings and errors committed by the APC government ahead of the 2023 election instead of engaging in denials. The APC chieftain cautioned that any attempt to engage in denials or propaganda will hurt the party, being the governing party Stating that APC is exactly in the same position as the Peoples Democratic Party PDP before the 2015 Election, noted that campaigning for 2023 will come with a lot of challenges, adding that it would be futile for the party to dismiss or rationalize manifest weaknesses. 2023: Afegbua Blasts Anti-Zoning Proponents, Says It’s… 2023: Uyo Senatorial District Leaders Call Crave Peace, Demand… ” As a party, APC must not put itself in a difficult position of campaigning based on propaganda, which in the end will seek to dismiss challenges facing the country and rationalise every action of governments controlled by the party. “APC leaders must recognise challenges and objectively assess initiatives taken by governments. Where there are manifest weaknesses recognise and accept shortcomings as a reflection of the commitment to remedy the situation. ” It is only when there is such commitment that party leaders will be able to win the confidence of Nigerians and to that extent win their support. Winning the support of Nigerians should be the orientation of the APC campaign for 2023. “ He also cautioned APC leaders to remove every illusion that it will not lose election simply because it is the governing party warning that being the governing party comes with a high disadvantage because as he said, power is always unpopular. Instead, he said the ruling party should campaign on the strength of what the Buhari administration has achieved on several fronts and demonstrate the same by coming up with empirical evidence. POLL According to him, PDP has deliberately maintained focus on the administration promise on insecurity, Economy and corruption but failed to see achievement in many areas just to create a wrong narrative that the administration has failed Nigeria. He warned that such narrative should be rejected by all loyal members of the party by drawing a comparison with the opposition on key parameters of development “Specifically, what are the key projects successfully implemented both under PDP and today under APC? While acknowledging that critical reforms initiatives were implemented during the sixteen years of PDP such as Treasury Single Account (TSA), Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) and Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS). “Landmark legislative frameworks were also put in place such as the Public Procurement Act, Administration of Criminal Justice Act, Pension Reform Act, Freedom of Information Act, Pension Reform Act, and Electric Power Sector Reform Act. These are pieces of legislation that strengthened the capacity of the government to manage challenges in the country. “Of course, in terms of poverty alleviation and job creation, there were YouWIN and NAPEP. And in infrastructural development, it is to the credit of PDP governments between 1999 and 2015 that they started and almost completed the Abuja-Kaduna Standard Gauge Rail Line and the Abuja Metro Rail. PDP governments also started the construction of the Zungeru Power Plant, as well as new Airport Terminals in Lagos, Kano, Abuja and Port Harcourt. There was also the rehabilitation of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, which was initiated by the PDP governments. There are many projects initiated and executed by PDP governments in various sectors of the economy. How successful were these initiatives and what were the costs”? 2023: Youths Vow To Install Yahaya Bello President By Numerical… 2023: Group Asks Emefiele To Run For Presidency He urged the APC to do all that is possible to depoliticize the worsening security situation, especially in the northwest, recognizing that the changing circumstances in security is a global thing.