Temidayo Akinsuyi; Gbenga Faturoti Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, and his predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Minister of Interior, are set for an epic showdown ahead of Saturday’s governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The outcome of the primary will determine who will fly the party’s flag in the governorship election scheduled for July 16, 2022. 2023: Group Canvasses Tinubu As Consensus Candidates Of All… Davido Disburses N250m To 292 Orphanage Homes The APC in the state is currently divided into two factions, the Ileri Oluwa group belonging to Oyetola and The Osun Progressives (TOP) which Aregbesola has publicly identified with. Even though Oyetola had indicated interest in seeking reelection, Aregbesola had on Monday endorsed Moshood Adeoti, a former Secretary to the State Government, as his preferred candidate in Saturday’s governorship primary. The minister, who made the endorsement while addressing members of the APC in Ijebu Ijesa area of the state, also said Oyetola would be thrown out of office after just a term just as ex-governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, was rejected by APC members in 2019 for working against the laid down rules. While accusing Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, APC national leader of foisting Oyetola on him as successor in 2018, Aregbesola said Tinubu promised that the governor will continue with his legacies which he has failed to do. “We took over government on November 27, 2010 and by 28th, we announced that whoever sought revenge would be struck down by God. We only handed over to God, those who made us suffer. POLL After we served for eight years, it wasn’t only party members that benefitted from our administration, the entire state did. I went everywhere in Osun with projects. “However, by the time my successor was handed over to me around May or July 2018, I was told, ‘Rauf, this is the ideal successor that would stand by you. He would further showcase your efforts. He would not betray you; he would not dim the light of your glory’. That was what the person, who handed him over to me said. If the person is listening to me, it would resonate with him, if he said so or not. “But did he do as he was vouched for? And when he reneged on these promises, did the person, who handed him over to me draw his attention to these failings? Anyway, isn’t the person the one we now see today? “This happened in Lagos recently. There was a governor, who wanted to seek re-election and the party declined and showed him the way out with their votes. So, the same way it was in Lagos then, is exactly the way it is in Osun today. What is sauce for the goose, is also sauce for the gander. It cannot be the turn of your younger brother now and you change the rules.” However, in a statement on Tuesday, Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, said his principal has absolute trust in God and the people of Osun State and not in Aregbesola who is trying to play God. FCT Council Polls: Legal Practitioner Hails Aliyu For Enhancing… Stakeholders Prioritise Cancer Awareness, Sensitisation In Borno He added that contrary to Aregbesola’s statement that Oyetola rubbished his legacies, the governor had improved on what he met on ground and done much more to the admiration of the people of the state who are clamouring for him to return for another term. The statement read: “The general belief among most Africans that ‘a man’s life is preordained and ruled by God’ has continued to play out in the political trajectory of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun. “From 2011, when he was appointed Chief of Staff to 2018 when, against all odds, he emerged, first as the candidate of the APC, and later, governor of the state, at a time when many thought it was all over for him, it was obvious that he was on a divine political course. “My principal has absolute faith in God and the people of Osun. In these last three years plus, the people can tell the difference in terms of responsible and responsive governance and politics. “Before we came in, Osun West was literally neglected in terms of infrastructure. But since we came in, we have done roads that had been abandoned for close to 20 years in that district. This, perhaps, explains why leaders and critical stakeholders from the area are already appealing to themselves to allow Oyetola take another shot at the governorship for the second term. “Just about a week ago, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, charged the people of the town to vote for incumbent Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. “Oluwo, who advised his subjects not to waste their resources and energy working against the re-election bid of the governor, said only those who are not interested in the growth and development of the town in particular and Osun State, in general, would want to run against Oyetola. “The royal father said by the special grace of God and the support of the people of Osun, Oyetola will be re-elected to consolidate the achievements he has so far recorded. Now, Aregbesola’s anointed candidate is from Iwo. So you be the judge. “As the 2022 governorship contest draws closer like the saying goes, there is no point comparing the sun with the moon, both shine when it is their time. For now, it’s Oyetola’s sun that is shining by the permission and grace of God and the power of the people of Osun. And as the majority are already saying, this sun will shine beyond 2022. “Therefore, it is God and Osun people that will determine Oyetola’s fate, not an individual trying to play to God”. There have been series of attacks on one another’s camp with casualties following. On Monday, Aregbesola was in the state on consultation tour for his preferred candidate, Alhaji Moshood Olalekan Adeoti. The road show, it was gathered, was a ploy to steal show from the other camp and moments after, some hoodlums suspected to be political thugs waylaid Aregbesola’s convoy at Orisumbare Market and started shooting sporadically into the air causing panic in the town. Though, there was no causality during the melee but the scene caused panic with each faction blaming one another. While Adegboyega Famodun faction of the APC accused Aregbesola and his loyalists of disrupting the peace of the state with the roadshow, the group called on the presidency to call the minister and men and officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in the state to order. The group also raised the alarm of alleged plot by NSCDC to disrupt the party’s primary scheduled to hold on Saturday. According to Famodun, “Our party, the APC, the government and the citizens of Osun are not interested in any form of violence, and the selfish ambition of an individual or group isn’t worth the blood of any Osun citizen.” The statement read further, “The Civil Defence Corps has abandoned their legal duties and now provide cover for people who have ulterior motives and do not place any value on the blood of innocent citizens for as long as their wicked intentions are violently actualised.” Meanwhile, the Aregbesola faction said it has uncovered plot to kill the Interior Minister by default by the state government sponsored thugs. Abiodun Agboola, the Publicity Secretary of Aregbesola APC faction, said, “The heinous plan which was hatched at the Okefia Government House last night was to ensure that the Iwo federal constituency meeting is stopped. “Sources revealed that the Governor Oyetola’s group were pained that the minister escaped the assassination plot yesterday and are determined to make sure that he is hacked down today. “The leadership of the Hon. Rasaq Salinsile led All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State of Osun therefore called on security agencies in the state to be proactive in designing a foolproof measure that will bring to naught, the evil plot by the Governor Oyetola’s group. “We are reliably informed that some government officials, apparently acting on the directive of the governor met at the Government House till about 12a.m with the mandate to frustrate today’s meeting in Iwo by all means, including killing if it comes to that.”