ABUJA – The 36 states governors under the aegis of Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF) has charged Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to consider vaccines manufacturing as part of their mission in Nigeria. INDEPENDENT reports that Gavi is a global alliance to protect people’s health by increasing equity in immunisation. Speaking during an interactive dialogue between Gavi Alliance and State Governors on Zero dose children, Primary Health Care (PHC) coordination and COVID-19 response in Nigeria, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Ekiti State governor and Chairman of NGF, while commending the efforts of Gavi charged the group on vaccine manufacturing in the country. COVID-19 Vaccination, Immunisation: Donor Agencies Commend… Tuberculosis He assured of the states’ readiness to creating the necessary conducive environment to make Gavi’s mission in the country successful. “I think the most critical takeaway from here is us as governors would be to urge the deepening of direct engagement with the sub nationals beyond this initial aid MoU stage. And express on our part, the NGF, the readiness in creating the necessary conducive environment for Gavi to operate optimally, as well as commitment to mutual accountability for delivery of results.” “Once again, let me thank the Gavi delegation for this engagement with the governors and I wish the delegation a successful mission in Nigeria.” “We also await feedback from this mission to better the collaboration between Gavi and Nigeria not just on vaccine deployment but also on vaccine manufacturing. That is something that we are particularly interested in as states. And that is without prejudice to the human efforts of Gavi, we are talking yesterday about 62 million vaccines being delivered to Nigeria out of the expected 93 million. And I think rhat is hugely commendable. We are extensively looked at how to ramp up vaccination in our states” stated the NGF boss. On his part, the Philip Shuaibu, the deputy governor of Edo state, noted that Nigeria would be needing help in the areas of data and technology. POLL “We need support in the area of data and technology” he said Shuaibu said the discussion centered around ways to collaborate with Gavi and take healthcare to the doorsteps of the people. “When you take primary health care to the doorstep of our people, you have solved healthcare system by 50%” he added.