Shooting Stars Sports Club of Ibadan (3SC) has promised to build on their resurgent display against Heartland earlier in the week which saw them hammer the Naze Mil­lionaires 4-0 at the Lekan Salami Stadium. The match was one of the week 10 round of games where the Oluyole Warriors turned the heat on the em­battled former CAF Cham­pions League finalists. “I must commend the performance of these play­ers despite the difficult start. Gradually we are coming up and we give glory to God that we got the goals that gave us maximum points. Ilechukwu Promises To Ride On Plateau’s Win At Rangers We’re Going To Jos For The Points, Boasts Rivers Utd Manager The Stars made it three wins from three after hitting Heartland 4-0 in a MatchDay 10 Nigeria Professional Foot­ball League (NPFL) fixture. The Oluyole Warriors played at their Lekan Salami Stadi­um, Adamasingba in Ibadan. A near capacity thou­sands of fans watched the encounter as 3SC claimed all three points over the Owerri team. It was the fourth win for Oluyole Warriors this sea­son after their victory over MFM FC last weekend in Lagos. But several scoring chanc­es were wasted by both sides, especially the homers who were under pressure to win back the hearts of their fans following several disappoint­ing results. Oluyole Warriors star, Kolawole Daniel scored the first of their four goals in the 52nd minute from a beautiful sweeper. POLL Malomo Taofeeq made it 2-0 in the 76th minute and Ayo Adejubu scored the third goal in the 85th minute. Raheem Nafiu scored the assurance goal and made it 4-0 to move his club to safety on the NPFL log. Shooting Stars should have won the match in the first half but for the players profligacy which could have changed the complexion of the match. However, the performance gave the fans something to cheer and they got value for their tickets as they applaud­ed all the moves made by the Oluyole Warriors. Speaking after the match, an elated 3SC coach, Edith Agoye said he was not sur­prised by the performance of his players as they played to instruction. Costa Rica 2022: Nigeria Look To Avoid Crash Against Cameroon Oyo SWAN Congratulates New 3SC Acting GM, Dimeji Lawal “We want to build on this victory because we are crav­ing for more points so as to make our fans happy. I thank the fans for their support to the team because they real­ly motivated us to win this encounter.