Chief Taiwo Kuye is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a former member of the South-West PDP Caretaker Committee. In this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU speaks on the defection of Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor, the 2023 general elections, zoning arrangement in the party, among other issues. Excerpts: What do you say about the support by the PDP Governors Forum to Jandor and his group, Lagos4lagos Movement during recent defection to your party? I believe the more the merrier and with Jandor coming into the party, I believe the party would be stronger and would be greater for the 2023 general elections because what I saw at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) signifies the beginning of the end of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. We are going to work together, and there is no new member and there is no old member, everybody is going to work together to actualise this project of taking over Lagos. Group Petitions APC Leadership, Accuses Akpabio Of Anti-Party… MURIC Berated Over Call To Rule Out Osinbajo, Southern… A former member of your party, Senator Seye Ogunleye said that Jandor coming to your party would not achieve anything because the structure has already been captured by APC? The man is not being truthful. I will ask him in his days in PDP with his level and status as a former commissioner, former minister and a former lawmaker, I would have asked him what he has achieved for PDP. He had nothing to offer the party. He left on his own because he was part of the fifth columnists we had in the party. Let me give you an example, we had a re-run of a State Assembly in 2014 in his constituency, Ikorodu. There was controversy on the party’s candidature and immediately the controversy on the candidate was solved, Chief Bode George spoke to President Jonathan and told him that we were sure of winning the seat if there was fund, but the only cog in the wheel of winning election was Ogunleye. That constituency consists of six wards, Ogunleye’s ward inclusive. Would you believe that we won five awards out of six wards and the only ward that we lost was Ogunleye’s ward? This will tell you that the association of fifth columnist in Lagos PDP has always given us setbacks of winning elections in Lagos in the past. It is not that we cannot win elections but they are sabotaging the efforts of the party. There are concerns that anytime Lagos PDP comes to the verge of making any success in the state; they themselves would make sure that everything disintegrates because of personal interests? That is the type of example I’m trying to tell because at a point Chief Bode George refused to involve them in any meeting that involves elections. At a point, Chief Bode George lamented that the situation was becoming pathetic and as result, he would wasn’t going to involve some people in any strategic meeting. They have shown the class they belong to and we have understood their position. Jandor has an agenda of joining PDP which is to be on the ballot in 2023, considering the interest of other party members in running for the office of the governor, is it possible that Jandor would get the ticket of the party? POLL I cannot say by any assurance that he would get the ticket. As a stakeholder, there are processes to all these things. Even before he came in, the ward congresses, local government congresses have been concluded, it is only the aborted state congress that is about to be completed now. But what I’m saying is this, for Jandor coming in at this point in time, he would have done his fieldwork and you would see it in the ceremony that day because it attracted so many stakeholders, governors, members of the National Working Committee (NWC), former governors’ and other party stakeholders. That speaks volume if you look at it the way it is but I’m not going to say that because of all these he would get the governorship ticket. I have been a party manager for over 20 years. I have managed the party and I know what it takes if you want to contest an election at this level. Well, he might have got an assurance somewhere that come to PDP something is going to happen. But nevertheless, there are other contestants on the roll call. Ade Dosunmu is there waiting, Wale Gomez is on the roll call; Hon. Teslim Balogun is also interested. So, they are about five altogether with Jandor notable for now and I don’t know whether some other people would come in before the primaries. So, it is a contest and the votes would represent who is going to win. Anybody that has the highest vote at the contest is the winner of the ticket that is all I can say. In 2015, Jimi Agbaje was allegedly imposed on the party by the NWC with the turnout of the NWC during Jandor’s formal declaration, do you think, there could be a repeat of what happened in 2015? The scenario of 2015 is quite different from what we are having now. I quite agree with you that the scenario of Jimi Agbaje was an articulate imposition by the presidency and the NWC then because if you saw the way he came in, you know this thing is a game because it is the NWC that would prepare the congresses and they know how they are going to doctor the list in favour their preferred candidate. The scenario is different now because the NWC just came into power about a month ago. So, they did not understand the scenario of Jandor or no Jandor, but their attraction was exactly from the governors because the governors were the ones that are in charge of everything. But if it comes that way, unlike Agbaje’s own I’m afraid that these people from APC at the end of the day they might return to APC. The truth is that Jandor has godfathers in APC that cannot even stick their neck for the world to see because they are afraid of their godfather. I don’t know how to say it but the winner would only emerge through the congress and I have been studying the situation, how he is going to come out of it but the event of Friday, January 21 speaks volume for any sensible politician to read what exactly happened there. With my experience as a party manager, I know it is going to be a very tough contest because some people are on ground before his arrival and they have been members of the party for a very long time. And it is going to be a delegate congress, not a direct primary where you queue behind people. There is no way you can bring non-existing members of the party to queue before someone and be counted. It is going to be a pure delegate congress. So, let us wait and see what the congress or primary is going to indicate and I’m sure the primary would indicate the winner and it is going to be good luck to the winner. With the quality of aspirants wishing to fly the party’s flag in Lagos State, are you optimistic that it is time for PDP to takeover Lagos? We have had over two attempts to take over Lagos. In 2003 Funsho Williams was killed and had it been he was alive it would have been walk over for PDP. The anxiety in the state was that we were going to have Funsho as governor. Every nooks and cranny of the state knew very well that there was going to be Funsho-led administration in Lagos but at last he was murdered. We had another opportunity in 2011, and you know the timetable of the election started with the National Assembly and presidential. We started the election very early and we were fast leading the Action Congress (AC) virtually in all the 23 federal constituencies with high votes before President Jonathan called Jega to cancel the elections and we were very close to the closing time of voting because voting closes by 2:30 pm. And around 2:00pm Jega announced that the election had been annulled in Lagos State and one other state. We have almost won all the National Assembly seats for the Federal House of Representatives and the Senate. And that would have determined the other elections in the state. So, we have been having chances of winning elections. In 2015 you saw what happened, we had eight members of the House of Representatives and eight members of the State House of Assembly at a point in time many of them decamped to APC one after the other. It is not the fault of the party or party managers. 2023: Pro-Atiku Groups Urge Former VP Not To Run Again 2023: Atiku More Than Qualified To Run Under PDP, Says Bauchi Is there a chance for PDP in 2023? Yes, we have chances both at the national and state levels. What are your thoughts on presidential zoning in your party? The party hasn’t zoned the presidency anywhere but if the zoning problem is not well channeled, it will cause a crisis in PDP. I trust Iyorchia Ayu with his experience in political management; I know he would do the needful. Unlike APC, they always follow PDP, they have nothing to offer. If PDP zones chairmanship to Niger State today in another week they will zone to Niger State as well. The only thing they know how to do is corruption.