ISAAC ASABOR Since private universities and polytechnics began to proliferate in the country, the argument on whether students and their parents or guardians can be classified as consumers has dominated discussions in the realm of public opinion. The argument, no doubt, cannot be dismissed with mere wave of the hand as higher institutions of learning are increasingly operating under market forces which demand competitiveness, efficiency and consumer satisfaction. Valentine’s Day: Boutique Owners, Restaurateurs See Impact Of… Ban Of Sachet Alcoholic Drinks: NAFDAC Urged To Walk The Talk The foregoing observation can be buttressed with the seeming predilection which parents and guardians alike have for private universities despite the exorbitant tuition fees that are charged by them thereby reinforcing the right to choose and have access to variety of quality products and services at competitive prices that characterise consumer rights. It is therefore, not surprising that most parents and guardians who are financially capable of sponsoring their children or relations through private university education have found the Unique Selling Points (USPs) which private-owned universities are characterised with. Some of the USPs that private universities are characterised with cut across the absence of industrial strikes, minimal incidences of cultism, prioritised security services, timely academic calendar, modern facilities, homely and neat hostels, as well as the cachet which both the sponsors and the students are widely known for. According to Smart Ogierahi, an educationist, “Given the fact that there are 49 federal universities, 54 state universities and 99 private universities and 12 degree-awarding distant learning Centres as listed by the National University Commission (NUC) on its website, there is need for lecturers in government-owned universities who incessantly embark on strike to aim at establishing a market-oriented culture in educational institutions in Nigeria. He said: “Against the foregoing background, given the increasing number of private and government-owned universities, there is no denying the fact that the market in educational sector is by each passing day becoming stiffly competitive. POLL He added “That while operating in the educational market as posited in this context, there is need for lecturers that have the predilection of embarking on strike action to always understand that students, together with their parents and guardians have inalienable consumer rights.” He explained that those Universities and other higher education providers that do not meet the obligations of undergraduate who subscribed to their tutorials after paying required fees, and who are invariably consumers of their services, may be in breach of consumer protection law. Why not few Nigerians are at the moment bemoaning the dwindling quality of education at the university level as a result of incessant strikes, National Executive Council (NEC) of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) recently met in Lagos, and called for a robust reworking of the public university system in Nigeria, so they can compete with institutions in other more civilised countries. To achieve the foregoing aim, ASUU on Monday declared a one-month warning strike. Emmanuel Osodeke, President of the union, announced this at a press conference after a two-day meeting of the union’s National Executive Council (NEC). According to him, the industrial action, which begins immediately, is “comprehensive and total”. Appraising Irukera’s Attentiveness To Consumers’ Complaints Excitement Trails Government’s Plan To Reduce Cooking Gas Prices “We don’t like to see our students at home. We don’t want our academic calendars disrupted but our demands are not met,” he said Some of the lecturer’s demands include the revitalisation of public universities, earned allowance, improved funding of state universities, and promotion arrears. Others are the replacement of the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) with its own University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS) in the payment of emoluments to its member. Against the foregoing background, not few Nigerians, who are mostly consumers in the sector are lamenting the situation where a student that ought to study for a particular 4-year course duration spends 5 or 6 years in the university as a result of incessant strikes embarked upon by members of ASUU, and alleged that incessant strike actions are tantamount to a disservice to both the students and their sponsors, and added that such disservice is an infringement on the rights of the students to quality education. According to parents and guardians who parleyed with DAILY INDEPENDENT, constant strikes that are usually embarked upon by the university lecturers’ union, are becoming unbearable, particularly as they are recurrent. The parents, who usually become grief-stricken seeing their children idle away for months, unanimously lamented that strikes by ASUU members have become incessant so much that they are getting disservice in return rather than quality education. Those who parleyed with DAILY INDEPENDENT said they have had to incur additional expenses feeding and taking care of their children and wards much more than when schools were in session. According to Fredrick Ukpoma, whose two undergraduate sons have in the past suffered under the strikes embarked upon by ASUU, and unarguably would likely be affected by the recently declared strike, “The children would always consume more because of idleness at home. Initially, I was exacting them, and blaming them for being wasteful as their constant report of “this or that has finished” was upsetting my budget, but I now try to understand their frustration.” According to Edward Makanjuola, who said he has a son and a relative he is sponsoring in two federal universities, “Students, who are no doubt the direct consumers in Nigeria’ education sector are concerned that they are not getting the quality of education they paid for. As it is now, they do not have the options of complaining. Who will they complain to?” As gathered by DAILY INDEPENDENT, higher education, particularly the university education has come to a point of contention as a result of incessant industrial actions orchestrated by unionised body of lecturers thereby raising the question on whether the sector should be thinking of the student as a consumer in as much as many academics who are justifiably proud of their teaching role will object to a mindset equating education to a business transaction. However, the real question, according to respondents engaged in a media parley, is not if academics would be comfortable with the “consumer” tag on education, but in actuality, how students will view themselves in the light of consistently prolonging the duration of studies for no fault of theirs. As gathered, given the dwindling quality of university education occasioned by lecturers’ strikes, “A 300 level student of Sociology, University of Abuja, Cecelia Eke, shouted, “Not again please!. I have spent extra years in school due to incessant ASUU strike, in addition to COVID-19 “Wahala” that disrupted our academic calendar in 2020. Cecelia added: “One of my course mates was forced to withdraw from our school to start a fresh programme in one of the private universities after the COVID-19 lockdown and ASUU strike that started before then”. Mr, Callistus Nwagbo, who ironically is a teacher in one of the secondary schools in Mowe said “Education is not a privilege, it is a right”. He explained that there is an urgent need for the government and lecturers affiliated to ASUU to come to a truce as the right to education is legally guaranteed for all without any hindrance, saying that lecturers in public-owned universities who are unarguably paid by the government are obligated to protect, respect, and fulfil undergraduates’ right to education by refraining from embarking on strike at the slightest provocation.