JOS – Former Governor of Plateau state, Senator Jonah Jang has described the victory of People s Democratic party at the just concluded Jos North/Bassa federal Constituency bye election as an indication of what will happen on the Plateau in 2023. Jang reaction is in response to the victory of peoples Democratic party’s Candidate Musa Agah Avia at the bye-election which he defeated the ruling party candidate Abe Aku of APC. According to the Plateau former Governor, “The result not only reflects the mood of the people but is a forestate of what to expect as the 2023 general elections are fast approaching.” [UPDATE] Lagos State PDP Congress: Diri Charges Delegates On… Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… He congratulated Jos North and Bassa federal Constituency constituents for conducting themselves in an orderly manner before, during and after the election. ‘ The results reflects their commitment and resilience to having good representation in the Federal House of representatives.,” He added that his Party leadership at the National level, ably led by Senator (Dr.) Iyorchia Ayu deserve worthy commendation for their support and full backing in the course of the campaigns as well as during the elections proper. “The PDP NEC constituted a Campaign Council, graciously visited the State chapter of the party and attended the grand rally leading to the elections. We must register our profound gratitude, particularly to the Governor of Rivers State Barr. Nyesom Wike and to the Governors of Benue and Bauchi, Dr. Samuel Ortom and Senator Bala A. Mohammed, respectively, for their support and for physically being on-ground to monitor the elections. Your commitment has indeed yielded positive results.” POLL Jang Commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting the election in a free, fair and credible manner that leaves no one in doubt as the results reflect the wishes of the electorate. “We commend them and urge the INEC to continue to live up to its name and be a truly independent umpire as we engage in the general elections in 2023.” Jang added that the State EXCO of his party has shown leadership by ensuring that all the necessary measures were put in place to guarantee victory for the party’s candidate. He charged the party’s State executives not to rest on their oars but work closely with the national leadership of his great party to mobilise Nigerians to vote out APC in the 2023 general elections. “This is a task that is possible and must be done, to guarantee a better life for our citizens and the generatons unborn.” BREAKING: Diri, Others Storm Lagos For PDP State Congress 2023: Northern Group Throws Weight Behind Goodluck Jonathan He congratulatedv Hon. Musa Agah on his victory, saying he is quick to remind that Hon Agah must do all that is possible not to disappoint those that have against all odd voted for him .