A member of the House of Representatives and former governorship aspirant of the  All Progressive Congress (APC), Honourable Femi Bamisile, has announced a ceasefire over protest against the result of the governorship primaries which produced former Secretary to the Ekiti State Government, Biodun Oyebanji, as the party’s flagbearer. Briefing journalists at his situation office after a meeting with his coordinators from the 177 wards, Bamisile disclosed that the fear of the Zamfara episode was supposed to be the beginning of wisdom for every loyal and committed party man. The lawmaker said he had approached two leading Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN) for legal fireworks on the alleged irregularities which characterised the primaries in Ekiti. FG Pledges Support For Girls Interested In Engineering DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit He said: “We are not going to leave the party. I can’t be sent out of a house that I built. Nobody can send me out of APC. “I was the first person to make it bold that I will fight it beyond all reckoning and part of that was to actually go to court. I have spoken to Lateef Fagbemi and Yussuf Alli on this, but looking at the larger picture, would I want Ekiti to go the way of Zamfara? No.” He dismissed the insinuations that he backtracked on his earlier stance because he was offered a return ticket, saying that his action was primarily informed by the need to sustain the unity of the party. “What I have just said today is that I am standing with the party. Whatever the party wants us to do, we would do. I can destroy the party I joined others to build and I have a penchant for building political parties. “I still maintain my stand, it really was not an election. It was a process that has become acceptable to some of us because we are party men. But it was not an election.” POLL He added: “But all these things could be resolved, so I need not wait for the reconciliation team of the party. I think for me, I need to reconcile with myself. What I have just said is that I am standing with the party. Whatever the party wants us to do, we would do.” He urged all his supporters across the 177 wards in the state to remain calm and support the candidate of the party in the forthcoming election, saying “there is still a lot ahead of us.”