UGHELLI – Residents of Ovrode Commu­nity in Isoko North Local Gov­ernment Area of Delta State on Monday shut down Ughelli/ Asaba Expressway in a re­newed protest over negligence of the community by state and federal governments. The protesters compris­ing men, women and youths besieged the Ughelli/Asaba Expressway for hours with placards bearing various in­scriptions such as “Ovrode is bleeding, “No Federal and State Government projects in Ov­rode Community,” “Our Gram­mar School is in a bad shape, no teachers and no chairs,” “No Constituency projects in Ovrode Community,” “Oil ex­ploration in our community since 1963 till date, nothing to show for it”, among others. Addressing newsmen at the scene of the protest, the Pres­ident General of Ov­rode Community, Mr. Felix Efedhoma said, both state and feder­al fovernments have abandoned Ovrode Community despite being an oil produc­ing Community since 1963 till date. Mr. Eno Is My Golden Boy, Wife Blows Hot Ido Aiyegunle Monarch Warns Land Grabbers To Steer Clear He said, “Ovrode as an oil producing com­munity since 1963 till date has no federal or state government projects in the community. Addressing newsmen, the President General of Ovrode Community, Mr. Felix Efedho­ma, said, “Ovrode as an oil pro­ducing community since 1963 till date has no federal or state government projects in the community. Ovrode Commu­nity is seriously bleeding. No Primary Health Care Centre in the community, No potable water to drink, both Primary and Secondary schools in the Community are all dilapidated. “Since two weeks ago that we made the first protest could you believe that we have not heard from the state or federal government? It was four days back that the Local Govern­ment Council Chairman called me and appealed that he will see what he can do. Not even a response from the Honourable Member representing Isoko North Constituency at the Del­ta State House of Assembly. This is to show the height of negligence from the state and Federal Government. Corroborating the President General, the Youth Leader of Ovrode Communi­ty, Comrade Viano Unweh and the com­munity women lead­er, Tina Ataibuno frowned at the poor state of infrastruc­tural development in Ovrode Commu­nity, noting that they would continue the protest till the state and Federal Government an­swer them. “We as a peaceful loving community that have support­ed both State and Federal Gov­ernment in all elections since 1999 till date. But the presence of Government at all levels is not felt in the community. No state or federal government ap­pointment. This shows that, the state and federal government have taken Ovrode Communi­ty for granted which we want to put an end to today,” they added.