KADUNA –  Calls for governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to contest for presidency come 2023 has heightened, this is as different northern groups have called on him to contest. The different groups who share the same belief that for unity and fairness, the South-East should produce the next President come 2023, has promised to support a candidate from the Igbo extraction especially Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. Another strong call is coming from the North Central Women Forum(NCWF) which converged in Kaduna and resolved to work with their hard-earned resources to ensure that Enugu State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is elected President come 2023. 2023: Bala Mohammed Visits Obasanjo, Says APC Zoning No Threat… 2023: Over 10,000 supporters Hold Solidarity Rally For Umahi… The Women Forum said the decision to declare support for Governor Ugwuanyi, popularly called “Gburugburu” is the manner he has been able to entrench peace and good governance in Enugu as well as assisting women and the downtrodden to grow their businesses. The women Forum with members drafted from Niger, Kwara, Nasarawa, Plateau, Benue, Kogi States and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) held a “Crucial Meeting on Who to Support during the forthcoming 2023 election” at Epitome Hotel, Barnawa, Kaduna State with a call on all Nigerians to support power shift to the Igbos , because it is long overdue. According to the Forum, the decision to hold the meeting in Kaduna was strategic for the mothers, who expressed worries over threats of political divisions; insecurity, high rate of poverty and unemployment, and socio-economic problems militating against the progress and development of Nigeria under the President Buhari led APC administration. In a Communique jointly signed by the Coordinator of the Forum, issued after the crucial meeting, the North Central Women Forum resolved to throw their weight behind Governor Ugwuanyi, whom they described as the most Women friendly governor and Detribalised leader. The nine-point communique jointly signed by Coordinator and Secretary of the North Central Women Forum, Christian Solomon Azege and Secretary Hajiya Amina Kure, stated: ” He is currently the only governor of a state, who came on board and remembered the welfare of the women, traders and the downtrodden. POLL “One of the reasons we resolved to endorse Governor Ugwuanyi as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023 is because of his far-reaching Traders Empowerment Scheme launched in 2017 to assist genuine women traders and various businesses, irrespective of the state of origin, religion or ethnicity. “We have searched through all States and have discovered that Enugu State Governor amongst other Governors and political leaders in the country have carved a niche for himself as a true democrat with a rare approach to governance, peace and development of all citizens and residents, especially Northerners in Enugu State. “We are also ready to move to the other geo-political zones to canvass for support for Igbo Presidency and Governor Ugwuanyi and with God on our side victory is assured.