ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Tuesday reminded the Federal Government to enforce existing resolution on state of emergency, over increasing killings in Anambra state and others. The House also expressed concern over the security situation of the country, saying that the killing of innocent Nigerians has been on the increase lately in the country, particularly in Anambra State and the entire South-East. The decision was taken after a member from Anambra state, Rep. Chris Azubuogu, raised a motion of urgent public importance to draw attention to the killings in his state. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks The session was presided over by the Speaker, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila. Azubuogu stated that “non-state” actors and other criminal elements had taken the state hostage, subjecting the people to untold hardship and making rules that they must either obey or get killed. He cited the case of the weekly Monday sit-at-home enforced by non-state actors, saying that it had practically brought economic activities in commercial centres like Nnewi to a standstill. The lawmaker added that “taking of lives had become a daily occurrence in the state and other south-east states, while the government appeared helpless.” He urged the House to intervene by calling on the Federal Government to take full charge of the responsibility of restoring security to Anambra state. POLL But, as he spoke, another member, Rep. Linda Ikpeazu, informed her colleagues that the situation painted by Azubuogu, affected the whole of the South East. She said for their own security and safety, “people now opted to remain more indoors in Anambra, Imo, Abia, Ebonyi and Enugu states these days”. Making a contribution, Rep. Ahmed Jaha, called attention to the role played by non-state actors, who took laws into their hands by manning roadblocks to force residents to pay taxes. Jaha, who is from Borno State noted that security forces were aware of such roadblocks where people were compelled to either pay money to insurgents or lose their lives but did nothing. Jaha said the whole country and not the South-East alone, was under serious security threats, which must be tackled thoroughly and immediately. 2023: Ganduje Under Fire Over Remarks About Tinubu Electoral Act: Let’s Give Buhari Few More Days –… The House therefore resolved to remind the federal government of the security situation of the country, and specifically on the need to implement its existing resolution, declaring a state of emergency on insecurity in the country.