LAGOS – The Secretary to Scottish Conservative Friends of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (SCBAME) has given a Nigerian lady, Josephine Oboh-Macleod, the Conservatives and Unionist Party ticket to run for the 2022 councillorship elections in Kirkintilloch North, East and Twacher. Oboh-Macleod partook in the hustings and interview for the councillorship ticket of Milngavie Ward one, East Dunbartonshire Council, Glasgow, Scotland, the United Kingdom, under the umbrella of Scottish Conservatives and Unionist party. In January, she made history as the first woman of African descent to vie for the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party’s councilorship ticket in Milngavie, Scotland. Speaking on the significance of the record, Oboh-Macleod, a philanthropist, humanitarian, acclaimed art curator and collector, and entrepreneur congratulated the party and people of Scotland for the opportunity. According to her, “The Scottish Conservative Party is the frontrunner in giving opportunities to all in an inclusive and non-discriminatory way.” Oboh-Macleod further said it was dawn for humanitarian politics is a new movement that she was advocating. This is amazing fantastic news! “I got my official confirmation for candidacy under the umbrella of The Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party as Councillor for Kirkintillock, East, North & Twechar, East Dunbartonshire, Scotland, United Kingdom, 2022 councillorship in May! POLL  Words cannot express my profound gratitude to members of the party and executives. “I will like to say special thanks to Pam Gosal(MSP) for West Scotland and founder and Chair of Scottish Conservative Friends of BAME (SCBAME) for her mentorship and her super support!“I thank everyone for their support and for having confidence and believing in me. “This is dawn for humanitarian politics and with your support, I am certain that we will achieve our goal.“I am going to give this my best shot. Win or loss, it’s a win-win situation. I am extremely delighted and my selection is proof that the Conservative and Unionist Party is a party that promotes equality.”