The Federal University Lokoja, has disclosed that all necessary infrastructures have been put in place to enable the smooth admission of her first set of medical students in the 2022-2023 session. This is just as the National Universities Commission NUC has in its recent ranking , rated the university as number one among the twelve universities created by the Goodluck Jonathan administration in 2011. Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Olayemi Akinwumi, disclosed to Journalists at a Press conference held at the main campus of the University in Felele, Lokoja, while celebrating his one year in office. Adagbonyi’s Appointment As AAU VC Excites NANS COEASU Threatens Fresh Strike Over FG’s Delay to Pay N15bn… He said despite paucity of funds, his administration was able to make positive inroads leading to the attainment of the favourable grading not only among it’s peers, but even all the other generations of Universities in Nigeria, there by achieving its mission of being one of the best. According to Prof, Akinwumi, the Federal University Lokoja, under his administration, has organised eight successful inaugural lectures He disclosed further that the young University is currently running 39 programmes and has secured approval from the National Universities Commission (NUC) to run facilities of Health Sciences and Engineering. The University administrator said the NUC while approving the establishment of the School of Medicine, said the institution has been given the approval to admits students for MBBS and School of Nursing. He said that within one year a lot of infrastructure have sprung up at the permanent site, with roads, offices and lecture halls being constructed. POLL The Vice Chancellor used the ocassion to debunk allegations levelled against him by persons believed to be enemies within, who felt frustrated by the unprecedented achievements recorded within the short period of assumption of office. On the welfare of workers and lecturers as well as their financial entitlements, Prof. Akinwumi promised to implement payment immediately it is released, lamenting that the policy of IPPS has affected employment of lecturers that will match the newly established courses. On security, the VC assured parents, guardians and students that everything is being put in place to ensure tight security in and around the campuses, hence the suspension of students from occupying the hostels .