Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir has disclosed that he is at a crossroad in his political sojourn, calling for prayers from Christians in the state so that God will intervene, especially for 2023. The Governor who was speaking at the closing session of the 2022 Annual Conference in Session of North-East Baptist Conference held at the First Baptist Church, in Bauchi, said that he has been receiving pressure from good spirited Nigerians across the country to aspire for the presidency considering his political antecedents which have endeared him to them. The Governor who was represented by his Senior Special Assistant on Religious Affairs (Christians), Pastor Zakka Magaji said that even in Bauchi state, there is pressure on him to continue the good works he is doing. Igbo Group Condemns Okechukwu’s Attack On Bauchi Governor,… Bauchi Governor Mourns Late Emir Of Jama’are “With the situation, we find ourselves in, it is only divine intervention that we need in order to have a direction on what to do. Please, join us in prayers, we really need it now more than ever before”. ” My administration has remained focused on delivering dividends of democracy to the generality of the people of the state because that is the reason we were elected,” he said He further reiterated the commitment of his administration in promoting peaceful coexistence irrespective of religious differences stressing that, “our government is an all-inclusive one. We are working with everyone who is qualified no matter what faith he/she professes”. Bala Mohammed then commended the North-East Baptist family for finding Bauchi State worthy of hosting the Conference in Session saying that it was a demonstration of the appreciation of the efforts of his administration in ensuring that there was peace and safety in the state. “In spite of the insecurity challenges facing the North-East subregion ravaged by insurgency, Bauchi State has remained the safest in the subregion. Your prayers have been keeping us safe, please, don’t stop praying for us” he added POLL Earlier, President of the North-East Baptist Conference, Rev Musa Likita said that the annual conference in session was brought to Bauchi state because of the peace in the state as well as the tremendous development taking place. Musa Likita commended the Governor for promoting an all-inclusive government saying, “we are impressed by the news we hear about the state, we decided to come and see things and be part of the success story”. The Conference President reiterated the readiness of the Baptist Church in the state to pray to God to give his leadership and direction as he makes a decision on the 2023 political aspiration saying, “any direction you choose based on your conviction, the Lord will see you through and make it a reality”.