SYLVESTER ENOGHASE Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy has seen its food production increase in recent years owing to the government’s renewed focus on agriculture, but not at the same pace as its population. According to experts, for Nigeria to leapfrog to the fourth industrial revolution in agriculture and ensure it feeds its rapidly growing population, there must be a proliferation of new technologies across the value chain to drive production and reduce food loss and waste. SON, NFIU Collaborate Against Fake Products In Nigeria ‘Our Workshops Will Empower Women, Youths To Become Industrial… When the World Bank, in the last quarter of 2021 warned that increase in food prices could push additional six million Nigerians into poverty, it therefore, called on the Federal Government’s attention for short-term policies to support welfare, not few Nigerians were flabbergasted, particularly as the warning was an indication that Nigeria was under the threat of food insecurity. The Washington-based institution stated this in its report titled ‘COVID-19 in Nigeria: Frontline Data and Pathways for Policy’. However, to those that are conversant with the business activities of BUA Foods; a subsidiary of BUA Group, the warning issued by the World Bank cannot be said to be perturbing enough as a bulwark has being erected to preempt the seeming hunger surge by BUA Foods. In fact, in less than 3 months after the gloomy prediction was made by the global bank, the management of BUA Foods Plc, on Tuesday, January 18, 2022 was hosted to a closing gong ceremony on the main floor of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited. This was after addressing market stakeholders with a fact behind the listing presentation in a webinar held earlier in the day. POLL It would be recalled that BUA Foods was listed on the Nigerian Exchange on Jan 5, 2022 and has since received significant acceptance going by the volume of demand for the shares which has boosted the market capitalisation of the Nigerian Exchange Limited by over N1trillion. As gathered, the company has maintained an unbroken record of year-on-year growth and has eight ultra-modern manufacturing facilities across the country. BUA Foods currently has a refining capacity of 1.5 million metric tonnes of sugar yearly from two ultra-modern sugar refineries in Lagos and Port Harcourt. As part of its expansion strategy in 2022, BUA Foods plans to double its flour milling capacity from about 500,000 metric tonnes per annum to over a million metric tonnes per annum. Similarly, that of pasta will grow from 5 lines to 11 lines. In the same vein, the company’s rice mill, one of the largest in the country, has a capacity to produce 200,000 tonnes of rice per annum with work currently in progress on a rice plantation that will change the face of rice production in Nigeria. How Sourcing Forex By Manufacturers Further Dipped In Q4 : 2021–… What Emefiele’s Projection On GDP’s Growth Portends For… Kabiru Rabiu, Group Executive Director, BUA Group, in chats with Daily Independent recently, said: “BUA Foods Plc is determined to explore the huge opportunities available in the agribusiness to promote food security and growth for Nigerians and Africans”. According to Rabiu, “Today for us is very historic and we are excited to begin the year with the listing. The population of Nigeria is over 200million and our food production capacity is still not enough to meet current demands. However, with the listing of our food business on the NGX, there is high hope for Nigeria in terms of building capacity for food sufficiency.” “As a country, we have agricultural resources coupled with human capital to harness needed raw materials to produce what we need for our consumption, and develop our nation. “We are positioning our brand to take advantage of export opportunities through our strategically located plants from which foreign exchange can be generated both for the company and economy” Engr. Ayodele Abioye, the Acting Managing Director, BUA Foods, also stated, “our fast paced and strategic investments in the food industry positions us to capture growth opportunities within the sector, create headroom ahead of demand, generate sustainable employment while promoting national food security. Before getting listed on public markets, the leadership of BUA Group has stated that it has restructured its business model to boost food production in line with the federal government’s plan to diversify the nation’s economy away from hydrocarbon resources. “Indeed, the company stated that the move is apt considering the country’s rising food import bill that has been put at N1.41 billion as at December, 2021. Abdul Samad Rabiu, CON, Chairman/CEO of BUA Group, in Chats with Daily Independent, during the launch of BUA Foods Plc in Lagos, said there are opportunities for growth and development in the nation’s agriculture and food processing value chains. He said that to tap into the economic diversification agenda of the Federal Government, BUA Group recently restructured its business model to enable it take advantage of existing business opportunities while contributing to the food security drive of the nation. “BUA Group is one of the largest conglomerates in Africa and has continued to invest in the nation’s food industry. “We are also working on a rice plantation that would change the face of rice production in Nigeria. From a business stand point, our resolve remains to produce high quality products for the widest customer base at reasonable prices and as a group we have already set the ball rolling as underscored in the business restructuring that birth the consolidation of our food operations aimed at strengthening our market position. “This will no doubt help our group to maintain its leadership position in our food business and other aspects of our operations”. He specifically said: “The way forward is to look for areas where we can grow whatever we need because with a population of about 200 million people, it is so important that we are able to feed ourselves. “We have everything in Nigeria here that will make it work. We need to come together to be able to do more. We cannot meet the demand of the nation because of the size of the population.” Rabiu, however, commended the Federal Government’s effort in developing the agricultural sector to make Nigeria self-sufficient in rice production, saying that the country is currently producing almost all the rice it needed. He said the overall objectives and task before the country as it grapples with the pandemic and economic challenges would be to develop a plan to put the nation on accelerated growth within well specified and realistic attainable timelines, and added that the challenges the country faces provided enough ground to do things differently. Against the background of the track record of BUA Group in its effort to ensure food security, particularly as it has restructured its food business model in contributing to the food security drive of the nation, there is no denying the fact that it will go a long way in boosting Nigeria’s food production, and in the same vein help in deepening Nigeria’s quest for food security. It would be recalled that its food businesses have been merged into BUA Foods are BUA Sugar Refinery Limited, BUA Rice Limited, BUA Oil Mills Limited, IRS Flour, and IRS Pasta. The Group said the consolidation became necessary to maintain its market leadership in the agribusiness and food processing sector as well as take advantage of the growth opportunities in the economy and the export prospect presented by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Abdul Samad Rabiu, said “BUA’s heritage as an indigenous and fully integrated food conglomerate, undoubtedly places an obligation of sorts on us to play a leading role in the developmental drive of our economy and it is a goal the Company is pursuing with vigor and determination.” He noted that “To underscore this commitment as well as tap into the diversification agenda of government, BUA Group recently restructured its business model to enable it take advantage of existing opportunities while contributing to the food security drive of the nation. According to BUA Group Chairman, BUA Group is one of the largest indigenous conglomerates in Africa and we have continued to invest heavily in the nation’s food industry, and have built eight ultra-modern factories across the country where we refine and process sugar, flour, pasta products, edible oils, and rice. “We have a refining capacity of 1.5 million metric tonnes of sugar yearly from our two automated sugar refineries in Lagos and Port Harcourt. Our flour milling and pasta processing factories have a milling capacity of 576,000 metric tonnes and 250,000 tonnes total production yearly, respectively. By middle of next year, we will commission our new lines in Port Harcourt, and with that we will have a total of 850,000 tonnes of flour and another 250,000 tonnes of pasta. That will give us a total of 1.4 million tonnes of flour milling and 500,000 tonnes of pasta from next year. “Our rice mill, one of the largest in the country, has a capacity to produce 200,000 tonnes yearly. We are working on rice plantation that will change the face of rice production in Nigeria.” He added that “We have also continued to invest in and help drive government’s backward integration policy by investing in large scale estates within the country to help deepen local sugar production. “These investments in the food industry have not only helped move the nation towards food security, thousands of jobs have also been created through these efforts.” He, however, emphasised that the Company will continue to empower individuals and households as well as boost government incomes through its operations while reducing the foreign exchange pressures on the economy.