ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party  ( PDP ) FCT Chapter has raised an alarm over a plot by the All Progressive Congress  ( APC ) to cause confusion by using fake security agents to arrest some of its members ahead of local government elections scheduled for Saturday, February 12, 2022, in the Federal Capital Territory  ( FCT )  Abuja. The party also accused  APC of planning to mobilize thugs from Nasarawa Toto, Gadabuike and other neighboring towns of Kogi and Niger ahead of the elections with the aim to disrupt the Area council elections. The party revealed this on Saturday in Abuja in a statement signed by its Chairman, Sunday D. Zaka. COVID-19 Threatens Push To End FGM – UN COVID-19: PM Justin Trudeau Goes Into Isolation After Child… The party said they would not have dissipated their energy on the plot but the intelligence report at their disposal shows that the utterances of some prominent members of  APC during their campaign across the FCT contained negative and vulgar comments capable of causing violence. PDP said members of APC were quoted in one of their campaigns with comments such as ;“A bamu A Huta ko A hanamu, a Samu damuwa” meaning is either the APC win and there’s peace or the APC lose and there’s trouble and “Za’ayi Wasa da Gwamnati ne? meaning  “nobody can dare them in Government. The party, therefore, called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the International community to prevail on APC  and call them to order adding that APC be held responsible in case of any breakdown of law and others during the election.The statement read ” It has become necessary that we call this urgent meeting. Our aim is to support the system by what we are doing right now and also deepen the shores of democracy in our nation. ”  However, in the build-up to next Saturday the 12th February 2022 Local Government elections in the FCT, our intelligence network has reported some appalling findings and we have deemed it fit as a law-abiding and Democratic Party to notify the general public and as well as the international community concerning the elections. Besides the intelligence, we are going to be sharing it with the security agencies.Reliably and confidently speaking from facts available to our party the PDP is that: ” There is an underground plan to use fake security agents to arrest and detain prominent members and stakeholders of our party ahead of the February 12 elections. POLL We are not taking this likely because the same scheme was deployed in the last 2019 election but failed due to the display of professionalism by the heads of security operatives in the FCT and now this same satanic plan by the opposition is resurfacing, but we believe strongly it will fail again. The party called on all security formations in the FCT and those that would be deployed for the purpose of the election not to allow the desperation and gimmicksof APC ruin the relative peace and security in the FCT. ” It baffles us as a party that the national ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) has drafted a list of governors from states across Nigeria for ordinary local government elections that is meant for the grassroots citizens and we are asking what motive could be behind the APC importing some of these governors with questionable character and knowledge of electoral violence to supervise the FCT Area Council election! In as much as we have confidence in the electoral umpire under the leadership of Prof. Mahmoud Yakubu, we are concerned that the importation of questionable character by APC could have a sinister motive against the elections. meaning the APC party is out to cause intimidation of voters. ” We want to say the essence of elections is to allow the will of the people prevail against all odds. Let anybody who has an interest in leading the people seize the ballot opportunity and lead the people and not result in clandestine strategies in an attempt to subvert a democratic process. ” But because we know the APC has lost touch with the people at the grassroots and would be rejected at the poll hence their desperate plot to deploy the measures of subverting the process and win at all cost but the people of the FCT are resolute to come out in their numbers to vote for PDP and defend their votes”; the statement added.