BENIN – THE people of Oke-Oroma community in Ikpoba-Okha local government area of Edo state has raised alarm of a planned attack from its neighbours; Amagba and Obazagbon who are from Oredo local government area but share boundary with Oke-Oroma. Addressing journalists in the community Tuesday on behalf of the elders, Secretary of the Community, Monday Omorogiuwa appealed to the authorities to come to their aid alleging that they have intelligence reports that the communities have moblised mercenaries who he alleged have been lurking around them waiting for the right time to attack. The new development, according to them, is a fallout from other similar attacks that led to the death of several members of the community. Delta 2023 Governorship: Edevbie Assures Pensioners, Deltans of… 2023: Urhobo Youths Urge Okomitie To Contest Ughelli South… Since March 17, 2012, till date, Amagba in connivance with Obazagbon have on several occasions and on different dates with the help of their contracted thugs, have maliciously attacked Oke-Oroma Community, leading to the serial killing of several innocent unarmed members of the Oke-Oroma community, in a bid to forcefully take possession of the community “Due to these several attacks, the Oke-Oroma community had on several occasions reported these incidents to all the security agencies in Nigeria, where some of the agencies, especially Zone 5, Headquarters, Benin City, is still investigating some of the criminal offences. “In the course of Zone 5, investigating the matter and at their initiative. parties were made to sign a peace agreement, which the communities had deliberately refused to comply with. “Very recently, Oke-Oroma on good information discovered that a fresh set of mercenaries hired by the Amagba community are in a hideout in preparation to launch another dangerous attack on the members, lives and properties. “Despite the peaceful agreement, Amagba has been unilaterally violating same with ignominy and reckless abandon On the 12th Day of August, 2021, Amagba and Obazagbon attacked Oke-Oroma at midnight, and as a result of this attack, nine people were arrested and detained.” POLL He alleged that those who were arrested in connection to the last attack have been released by the police and they are back to the communities. When contacted through the telephone, the Youth leader of Amagba, Peter Erinmwinose said he was out of the state but noted that the case was still in court and cannot comment further.