You reap what you sow. A foreigner just arriving in Nigeria, and learning about the six zones of our political system, must assume that Yorubal­and is the second most favoured zone under the All Progressives Congress, APC. A casual glance at the list of occupants of elected and appoint­ed officials would seem to back up that claim. A Yorubaman is the Vice President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Minister for Works and Housing, the Minister of Interior, and Minister of State for Health. The National Leader of the party is also reportedly from La­gos State. Finally, the Chairman of the Governors Forum is one of our own. With the exception of the North West, which has grabbed the lions share of important appointments, no other zone comes close. The South East is so marginalised, the few top level appointees are even forced to defend an administration which actively cheats them. The Yoruba should feel comfortable with this government. Surprisingly, most of us are not. The obvious question is: why? The simple answer is: the people cannot point to any tangible benefit of having so many officials in the top posts. There is a need to elaborate. The reasons, from random in­terviews with hundreds at all strata of Yoruba society, are as shocking as they are understandable. They also pose threats to the Presidential ambitions of those now in the race. It is possible that in a free and fair election, none of them will receive 50 percent of votes. In more than sixty years of watching Nigerian politics, I have never experienced so much resentment of Yoruba political lead­ers as now. The accusations can be summarised as follows. Selfishness Who Qualifies To Sit On The Supreme Court? Damachi: Big Game Player Mention any name; and a trope of maledictions follows from peo­ple who have not been fortunate to be close to them. The pervasive im­pression is that the top politicians are now in business for themselves and their families and close associ­ates alone. They don’t give a damn about the masses of Yoruba people. Invariably, the older Yoruba people will refer to the Free Education pol­icy started in the Western Region under Chief Obafemi Awolowo and the Action Group government. Awo is today next to God worshipped by my own generation. His government devoted such a large percentage of the annual budget to Education in all its ramifications and gave the Western Region (including Edo and Delta) a huge advantage which we still enjoy till today. Yoruba people are the leaders in any legal profes­sion in the country. The collateral advantage, for Nigeria, of Awos stra­tegic vision, was the competition it induced in other regions to educate their own children. By contrast, none of the Yoruba leaders in government today has demonstrated that sort of vision. None is leading advocacy for any initiative that could mobilise mil­lions of people or solve problems for Yorubaland. Free education was not elitist. Awo did not know me or any of the millions of beneficiaries personally before conferring a ben­efit on us which has lasted us a life time. The closest to Awolowos legacy by any politician was the Low Cost Housing concept embarked upon by late Alhaji Jakande the former Governor of Lagos State. Not as tidy as free education in every way, but, even now Jakandes low cost hous­ing units can be seen everywhere. Travel through all the six South West states today and you can hardly point to any lasting legacy of Yoruba polit­ical leaders since 1979. We spent years in the opposition at the Federal Level; and understand­ably, our states were mostly deprived of the dividends of democracy; de­spite the fact that we led the struggle for Civil Rule. But, we are now in of­fice. Where is the evidence of power sharing in Abuja? The government which gained power in 2015 could not have succeed­ed without some well-known Yoruba leaders. Many supporters of the Na­tional Leader frequently remind us that he was the Kingmaker. We agree totally that he made it happen. But, look around the South West today, almost seven years after that elec­tion, and ask yourself this question. Are the people of the South West in general better off today than in 2015, when the VP, Speaker of the House, and top Ministers did not come from our zone? In other words, are Yoru­ba people benefiting from having so many people in top posts in the APC government? Do we owe them any sense of gratitude and for what? Morning shows the day. POLL Buhari made it very clear, even before he mounted the saddle, that he was embarking on swindling the masses of Yorubaland who trooped out to vote for him. His first twenty appointments included only one per­son from Yorubaland Femi Adesina, who occupied a subordinate role to Shehu Garba. And all the appoint­ments were made without consulta­tions with the Yoruba leaders who contributed to his victory at the polls. Nobody complained. One Abubakar followed a Mohammed into high of­fice in 2015, no Tunde or Iyabo.Yet, no Yoruba political leader had the guts to protest. Nobody was man enough. The only objections, oddly enough, came from the media. Sever­al columnists in the Southern papers were the first cry foul. Southern pol­iticians who were the victims of the political daylight robbery could not talk. Everybody was waiting for the next round of appointments in the hope that it would favour them. Indi­viduals who were regarded as pillars of the party all became supplicants like dogs waiting under the Masters table, wagging their tails, waiting for crumbs. If Buhari held any consultations before selecting his Ministers, it was definitely not with Yoruba APC lead­ers. Granted, he appointed Ministers from the SW; but, that was based on a constitutional obligation. A few of those he liked were asked to nomi­nate candidates; and they were ap­pointed without consideration of merit. But, all the Ministers appointed from the SW owed their portfolio to no one else. The National Leader was serially by-passed when the appoint­ments were made. It was only when second-tier positions were to be filled that Lagos State got the Federal In­land Revenue Service. For a state which contributed the bulk of the finance, the media support and the largest Southern votes in 2015, that was a kick in the teeth. Marginalisa­tion was so boldly written that any­body with a modicum of common sense should have seen where all the lack of courage would lead us. Still nobody complained. Herdsmen Became Landlords In Yoru­baland A Nation Of Adulterated Fuel And Adulterated… Okorocha’s Visit And Buhari’s Fight Against Corruption Ancestral attachment? You can only have ancestral attachment when you are alive. If you are dead, how does the attachment matter? The National Economic Council that recommended ranching didn’t just legislate it; there were recommenda­tions.What will the land be used for if those who own it are dead at the end of the day? In 2018, something absolutely terrible happened to the Yoruba people. As mentioned earlier, Femi Adesina was the first person to be invited to come and eat. Three years after, he made that statement about ancestral lands obviously including his own family’s lands. It was all in a bid to get Yoruba people to surren­der their lands to rampaging Fulani herdsmen. Mental self-slavery has never been so openly declared by any human being since I have learnt to read. Worse than Adesina accepting, with gratitude, the attempt to enslave Yoruba land owners, was the total si­lence of the Yoruba APC leaders at the time. Some have woken up from their slumber. But, those who hope to receive Buhari’s nod for the Pres­idency are still not men enough to raise objections to the fact that every state in Yorubaland has been invad­ed by armed Fulani herdsmen and terrorists with tacit approval from above. Yoruba people were land­lords in their own land until 2014/5 when Yoruba APC political leaders brought Buhari to us and assured us we were safe in his hands. Today, Fulani herdsmen are the masters in several areas ably assist­ed by the Army and the Police under Fulani heads. Still none of those run­ning about preparing to run for the Presidency has spoken a word about our predicament. The leadership in this regard has been provided by others. I don’t be­lieve we have reached the break-up point in Nigeria. But, I totally agree with them that Yorubaland has been violently seized by Fulani herdsmen and our President is doing nothing about the situation. Worse still, our Yoruba leaders in APC are afraid to talk. All they want to do is to drive us like cattle on Election Day to go and vote for someone who has spent the last seven years ignoring our plight out of political expediency. This ap­proach to leadership cannot work for us. They better start talking; other­wise, they might discover that apart from the very few they have helped, most of us are not keen on voting for cowards.