LAGOS – The Nigeria Consumer Protection Network has expressed disgust over the unending interrupted power supply in Abuja. Kunle Olubiyo, the president of the group, described the situation as a marathon race of institutionalised vicious circle of darkness, in a Save-Our-Souls letter to President Muhammadu Buhari obtained by Daily Independent. Olubiyo, who wondered how Abuja is fast gaining prominence in terms of poor electricity supply, revealed that over three thousands business concerns ,embassies and ministries are been affected lately with severe economic implications. Accugas Signs Gas Sales Deal With Central Horizon Gas Company How Robust Contract Regime Increased Peak Generation By 30% –… He said: “We can’t not be celebrating the fact that feeder H1 cascading electric power supply to the entire Garki District in Abuja , Federal Capital Territory was out on outages for twenty good hours on Saturday 19th February,2022 From 19:300Hours GMT+1 00:00 hours GMT+1 .Supply was in .On Sunday 20th February,2022 .From 00:00 Hours GMT+1 – 2:16 Hours GMT+1,power was out as the entire feeders to Garki from Apo transmission substation was open Power outages on Sunday 20th February,2022 Between 2:16 Hours GMT+1 – 17:30 Hours GMT+1 ( 5:30pm ). There was availability of power supply for 12 hours. From 5:30pm / 17:30 Hours GMT+1 of Sunday 20th Day of February,2022 – 05:30pm / 05:30 Hours GMT+1 of Monday 21st Day of February, 2022 with the repairs of distribution and transmission network over. .. “Power Outages resume its daily activities in Garki District with the alleged Open of Garki District Feeders by Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN).It has been a season of blame game between TCN and Abuja Electricity Distribution Company on one hand and power Generation Companies and Managers of power generation/ power plants on the other” He said the situation in Abuja Metropolitan Area or Garki District is a tip of the iceberg compared to the reports from different part Federal Capital Territory.. POLL He lamented that it is a worst case scenario throughout Nigeria where unwarranted excuses have been given by service providers for plunging the country into darkness at a huge cost He added: “Everyone keep asking for more money from Federal Government. Electricity consumers keep expanding in payments for steady astronomical increase and surreptitious increase of electricity tariff through the back door, 300% increase in estimated billing of end users of electricity and failures of capping of estimated billing order. “There has been zero governance structure and lack of regulatory institutional follow ups, embarrassing increase in regulatory risks exposure, decline in efficient service delivery milestones and lackadaisical approach to serious business of regulation ….regulatory culture of impunity. The take- away from all of these is darkness predictable power outages and certainty of impunity.