BENIN  – Lift Above Poverty Organization (LAPO) disbursed N19.9billion to clients through the LAPO Rural Development Initiative, LARDI, in 2021 financial year. This figure, according to the organization, represents 64% growth over the sum of 12.2 billion disbursed 2020. The Executive Director, Dr. Honestus Ayobami Obadiora, stated this while reviewing the performance of LARDI, at the Organisation’s 2022 Annual Media Forum held in Benin at the weekend. BUA Foods Dissociates Self From Artificial Scarcity Of Sugar Ekiti 2022: APC And The Need For Genuine Reconciliation Obadiora who reaffirmed that the organization was committed to poverty alleviation and Nigeria’s agricultural development said, LARDI empowers economically active clients with a range of loan products including farming and enterprise development services. “The financial institution currently has 226,858 clients spread in 283 branches across 21 states”, he said. He also attributed LAPO‘s outstanding performance over the years to strong institutional strength, staff commitment to excellence and hardwork, adding that the organization was ready to maintain its superior performance trajectory. Dr. Obadiora enjoined low-income farmers and small business owners to take advantage of the affordable loan opportunity offered by LAPO to enhance the growth and development of their farm and business enterprises. On LAPO’s health programme, Obadiora said no fewer than 7,377 community dwellers were screened for breast, cervical and prostate cancers in the year 2021 POLL He said the screening, which was carried out through the LAPO Community Campaign for Cancer Control (LAPO-C4) was to improve access to cancer awareness and screening services at the grassroot level. According to him, the organization intensified it’s Cancer intervention in 2021 due to the increasing mortality rate recorded in the country in the year 2020. “The 2020 Global Cancer Statistics reported that the country recorded 124,815 new cancer cases, with 78,899 deaths, representing 63 per cent mortality rate. “Also, cancer related deaths are increasing worldwide, WHO, in 2021, said that the world crossed a sobering new threshold; an estimated 20 million people were diagnosed with cancer, and 10 million died.”