IBADAN  – There is no doubt that Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde has proved critics wrong with his governance style which has brought both human and structural development to the state. Governor Makinde, through his visionary ways of piloting the affairs of the pacesetter state, showed interest in engaging the youths of the state through agribusiness and its value chain. This has consequently created job opportunities for teeming unemployed youths of the state. Some of Makinde’s youth engagement initiatives centered on agriculture with the introduction of modern techniques in enhancing agric production and its rigorous task which makes it less cumbersome for the youths. Connecting Right Record Label At Right Time Was My Challenge… Nigeria’s Capacity To Service Current Stock Of Debt Raises… Among the initiative is the Start Them Early Program, simply called ‘STEP’ which captured secondary school students and it’s designed with the adoption of technology innovations in agriculture in such a way that all the students are trained with modern ways of farming with value chain in agribusiness. This initiative has increased the interest of students in agribusiness at the cluster areas as those students are already producing vegetables and chicken for the consumption of residents in the state. Youth Entrepreneurship In Agribusiness Program (YEAP) is another Governor Makinde initiative of supporting the youths. No fewer than 3,300 youths that were selected across all the 33 local government areas of the state have been sent to Nasarawa State for extensive training on agribusiness and its value chain. YEAP beneficiaries were equipped with a tablet phone and other modern equipment for an easier way of learning and they have been promised a startup grant with a parcel of land by the state government to enable them to stand on their own as a farmer. POLL Upon their arrival on Sunday, one of the batch 11 of 3,300 YEAP beneficiaries, Master Kehinde Adeleye from Oyo East local government described Governor Makinde as a visionary leader. He said, “Actually we spent two weeks but that two weeks were like years because when you go to certain places to learn and you return home having achieved your target, then you’re ready to go. I’m going into vegetable and fish farming because that is my area of specialisation.” Some of the YEAP beneficiaries who spoke with journalists expressed their satisfaction towards the way and manner their welfare was being taken care of throughout the training program, noting that the training was all agribusiness inclusive. Another beneficiary, Adeyinka Okanlawon from Saki West Local Government area of Oke-Ogun zone expressed his appreciation to Makinde for the privilege to participate in what he described as a “very laudable and expository program,” saying that the training has exposed him to various opportunities in agribusiness. Olajire Aduragbemi Kehinde from Ido Local Government area of Ibadan also said she learnt many things she never knew from the training. “I really learnt a lot from the training program from the greenhouses to agro-phonix, the six ways of cultivating cassava without weeding as well as how to add value to farm produce keying into the agribusiness value chain.” Structural Engineer Must Know All Rudiments Of Design – … Singular Act Of Tampering With Aircraft Can’t Make Our Airports… Niyi Oluwabunmi Esther from Ogbomoso North Local Government Area said going to Nasarawa has changed her perception about many things including keying into the agribusiness value chain to earn a decent living and being financially independent. While speaking on behalf of non-indigenes who also benefitted from the training program, the youths leader of Igala community in Oyo State, Comrade Ayatu Unubi Paul, said he is ready to go fully into maize farming, saying his choice was based on the high demand for the farm produce for consumption and also for further agro feeds processing for fish production. Another beneficiary, Oribamise Temitope said she is ready to go into fish farming. She described Makinde as an amiable and quintessential leader, commending the Governor for initiating the training program for the youths saying Makinde has thought the youths how to fish from the river. “Kudos to you sir for working assiduously to turn things round for the best of us in Oyo State. We, the youths are solidly behind you and can assure you that your second term is certain because we will ensure you lead us to our desired end by continuing as our Governor till 2027,” Temitope said. Receiving the beneficiaries on behalf of the state Governor, the Director-General of Oyo State Agribusiness Development Agency (OYSADA), Dr. Debo Akande also commended Governor Makinde for supporting the youth with such a laudable project. He also described the Governor as a visionary leader who has a great vision and love for people of his state, noting that the Agribusiness training for youths in Oyo State started on 8th of August, 2021 and has seen no fewer than three thousand three hundred youths drawn from across the 33 Local Government Areas of the state including non-indigenes residents in the state. Akande, who also doubles as the Executive Adviser to the Governor on Agribusiness Matters, commended the state Governor for his unwavering commitment and support for the success of the training program ROM, saying that the next phase is to engage the 33 Local Government Executive Chairmen to provide land for the graduands to start deploying the acquired knowledge. He maintained that the training was part of the state government’s commitment towards preparing the youths ahead of the Agricultural revolution in the state in terms of the acquisition of necessary skills to key into the government’s Agricultural agenda. Akande said the state government has made provisions for financial support for the YEAP graduands which will be rolled out in batches to enable effective monitoring and guidance. “The journey to Nasarawa State started on the 8th of August last year and has ended today. It was not an easy journey. We thank God that we never recorded any form of casualty from the start of the program till the end because Governor Makinde provided everything needed for the success we have recorded. “This is the eleventh batch of three hundred youths per batch making it three thousand three hundred persons. One hundred per local government because we have 33 local governments in Oyo state. “The significance of this training is the empowerment so that the youths can be able to take up the challenges of Agribusiness. After production what next? The value chain and they have learnt all of that in Nasarawa as they have been well equipped for the work ahead. “The state government under the leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde has directed the various local governments to provide land for these youths which is one of the basic things they need. The financial aspect has been guaranteed by the state government so that as the last batch arrived today the next step is do them to be set up,” Akande said. He assured that the state government will commence implementation of the next phase as soon as possible saying that all participants have been captured through biometric means adding that the farmlands which will be provided for Agribusiness purpose will be given to the youths grouped into clusters for effective monitoring on their developmental process.