Author, life coach, and serial entrepreneur, Nyce Ayuk is a respected authority in Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency. An unrelenting advocate of wealth creation, he leverages his vast knowledge and wealth of experience to share knowledge with people across the globe on how to create financial security for themselves from crypto trading and investments, arguably the greatest wealth transfer in human history. His versatility is the cutting edge of his readiness to break new grounds for wealth creation. Running An Informal Retail Shop In The Digital Age COVID-19: CITAD Expresses Concern Over Misconceptions Of Vaccine Nyce is an internet marketer and continues to explore the best and creative ways to make money online and offline, by capitalizing on current and future trends. Nyce Ayuk was born and raised in Africa. His formative years offer an interesting window into the world of an adolescent with an early promise. As a young boy, he loved to play football. His passion for the round leather game taught him valuable lessons about competition and hard work; it imbued in him, a winning mentality that drives his activities up till today. As a result of his competitive spirit and an innate gift from the cradle, Nyce caught the entrepreneurship bug quite early in life. At the age of 10, he started exploring business opportunities and began selling drawings he made from his superheroes (Arnold Schwarzenegger – Commando, Sylvester Stallone – Rambo, Michael Dudikoff – American Ninja) to his peers. He became a photographer to his secondary school classmates, taking pictures of them but never appeared in any. He fried and sold groundnuts, hawked iced water, and sold second-hand clothes. POLL At the age of 16, he became a young worker at a Chinese company (WEMPCO) and was saddled with the responsibility of peeling logs of wood used in the production of plywood. The wages he got from doing this enabled him to raise money to buy his essentials and to settle other bills at the time. Many years later after graduating from the university, Nyce won a scholarship to study for his Master’s degree in the United Kingdom. After his post-graduate studies, he created a School Management App (KIIPTAPZ) and started learning how to monetize it using Facebook Ads and Google SEO. He achieved some success in this endeavor, but nothing would compare to what was to come. His education both in Africa and the UK had a transformational impact on him and prepared him for a flourishing career in the business world. When he arrived in France from Africa where he was born, he was propelled by his ambition to explore the huge possibilities online. It turned out to be the BREAKOUT moment from which he has never looked back. Nyce Ayuk is also an expert in eCommerce and has authored a highly acclaimed book on e-commerce as the new wealth frontier in Africa.