The Proprietor of Tower of Ivory Schools in Nigeria, retired Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Udom Ekpoudom has charged the Ministry of Youths and Sports across states to formulate deliberate sports policy to keep the Youths engaged at all times. Ekpoudom handed down the advice after conducting members of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Akwa Ibom state council, on a facility tour of sporting equipment in his school, at Ediene Abak, Akwa Ibom state. He said with such policy, youths would be guided on how to utilize their time on gainful engagements, thereby reducing their involvement in activities detrimental to the development of society. Group To Hold Digital Acquisition Training Programme To Check… Don Urges Religious Bodies To Discourage Youth From Pursuing… The DIG(rtd) said his love for sports development in his schools steamed from the fact that it engages students’ minds and intellects, thereby diverting their attention from social vices. The former Police boss stressed that his passion for sports cannot be compromised, hence his determination and commitment at providing sports facilities, knowing that, the sector is lucrative. He also listed as his driving force, the desire to use sports as bait to sharpen the intellectual capacities of his students and pupils. “I love my state and will always indulge in anything that will promote the development of my state. I ventured into schools because I intend to support the growth of education in my state. Today, we are building sports infrastructure as a deliberate attempt to leverage the love for sports to sharpen the intellectual capacities of our students and pupils”, he said. On his part, the Akwa Ibom state chairman of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, Comrade Emmanuel Akpan, said that, the tour became necessary to allow SWAN members the opportunity to witness first-hand, the conscious efforts made by the school towards the development of sports. POLL “We have heard the story of the renaissance of sports infrastructure in your school and we are here to witness it first-hand. As sportswriters we are committed to the development and promotion of sports and it behoves on us to report such development to the general public wherever it may take place”. The infrastructure visited at the school which now comprises a nursery, academy, elementary and secondary schools with branches in Port Harcourt and other parts of the country are; a mini stadium of five hundred seating capacity complete with plastic seats and a standard natural-grassed football field with reinforced aluminium goalposts, modern basketball, volleyball and tennis courts, two badminton courts and a standard indoor sports hall. Others are, a long jump pitch, a fully-furnished squash court and a standard swimming pool.