LAGOS.  – A Molecular Plant Systematist and Senior Lecturer in the Department of Botany, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Dr. Temitope Onuminya, has called for the digitisation and mobilisation of plant specimen data in Lagos. Dr. Onuminya is the Principal Investigator of the Global Biodiversity Information Facility – Biodiversity Information Development (GBIF-BID) Project Team on “Expanding the visibility of the Lagos Herbarium through Digitisation and Mobilization of Plant Specimen Data.” He made the call during a blended stakeholders’ engagement meeting held recently at the Faculty of Science boardroom which had in attendance participants from the Department of Botany, Lagos State University; Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency; Lagos State Ministry of Environment and Water Resources; Lagos State Parks and Garden Agency (LASPARK); Shodex Gardens to mention a few. I Was Not Discouraged By Rumour That I Can’t Make Best… Michael University, Umudike Resumes Lectures After One-Week… While introducing the project, she informed that the Herbarium, located in the Department of Botany, University of Lagos and established in 1971 is the oldest institutional herbaria in Nigeria. The herbarium presently has a collection of over 10,000 plants, 70 percent of which are vascular plants and carpological (samples preserved in alcohol). She explained that some issues, which the project seeks to address include the cataloguing of plant samples and even when catalogued are handwritten notes in registers, adding that these samples are only physically stored without digital documentation and not visible or accessible outside their current location. To this end, the project team on expanding the visibility of the Lagos Herbarium through Digitisation and Mobilisation of Plant Specimen Data was created and is funded by the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF). As the name implies, the sole aim of the team is to mobilise, digitize and publish information/data on plant species in Lagos on the GBIF platform. The project is expected to run for 18 months (April 2021 – October 2022).