As Nigerians whimper in anguish as a result of the current avoidable fuel scarcity, economists and other stakeholders fear that the additional hardship may reverse the drop in inflation rate and the positive economic trajectory which recorded a Gross Domestics Product (GDP) growth rate of 3.98% for the 4th quarter of 2021. ROLAND OGBONNAYA, TOMI FALADE AND OYIN SOMORIN write Adamu Aliu is a local commercial bike rider. Adamu, who came to Lagos in 2014 in search of greener pasture from Kano State, plies his trade in the Ayobo area of Lagos State. Without that, the middle-age Adamu is pained by the current fuel scarcity that has changed the dynamics of his business. He told Saturday INDEPENDENT, “This morning around 6 am I bought a litre of fuel for N350, in the afternoon of the same day it increased to N500. I didn’t have a choice but to buy it because petrol stations in my area are all shut down except for P.M filling station where they are selling the product at the cost of N300/500 per liter despite the long queue. CSOs: Buhari’s Delay In Assenting To Electoral Act… Police Not To Blame For Fatal Accident In Ihiala -Anambra CP “In a situation like this, it is not easy to make ends meet because I still pick up passengers at the same price because commuters won’t pay a new fare. There is so much hardship already in the land,” he re-echoed. Mrs. Bankole Adesanya is a wholesale trader in the Egbeda axis of Lagos State, and according to her, the fuel scarcity orchestrated by the alleged adulterated fuel came at a very wrong time. “Nigerians are already suffering, yet our government is bent on increasing the cost of fuel. Since last week, goods and products have increased in cost because the companies complain of the high cost of production.” She, therefore, called on the Federal Government and state authorities to tackle the fuel scarcity for the overall good of Nigerians. The scourge of fuel scarcity is not better off in the Northern Nigeria either. In Kaduna, Ahmed Munir, a transporter said the black marketers have made life unbearable, taking advantage of the current situation to exploit innocent Nigerians. He said, “I spent more than five hours following the line. Since when I came, I haven’t gotten fuel and my car was on the line. Up till now (in the afternoon), I haven’t bought fuel. Even when you go to the black market, we buy one litre for N1,000. So fuel is very scarce and we are calling on the government to put an end to this thing.” Just like Munir, a passenger, Buhari Sa’ad, bemoaned the increase in transportation fare as a result of the fuel scarcity. POLL He said motorists usually charge N1,500 as a fare for Kaduna to Kano, but the fare has increased to N2,000 as a result of the current situation. “We are calling on this government to please consider our people because it is not all of us that have the money. Most of the people cannot travel because of this fuel scarcity,” he said. As the fuel scarcity bites further, long-distance transporters have quickly jacked their fare up. For example, a bus ride from Umuahia, Abia State to Lagos that went for between N7,000 and N8,000 now cost between N10,000 and N12,000. This high cost of fuel impacts food, goods and services as trucks used in conveying them can’t get fuel at reasonable to operate. The effects of the recent scarcity of PMS borne out of the recall of contaminated and adulterated petrol has also spread up to major e-ride hailing services, especially in major cities like Lagos. On Monday, February 14, which incidentally was Valentine’s Day, Bolt Nigeria customers received a not-so-lovely in-app notification that there will be a change in ride prices for customers in Lagos starting from Tuesday, February 15, and that has since taken effect. The company cited increased operating costs incurred by drivers on the app as the reason for the price review, but many have speculated that it was inspired by the scarcity. Bolt stated that the price change would affect base fare, minimum fare and kilometre, and minute fee. Nigerian Coach, Victor Ogunwusi Is New Crockenhill Manager 2022 JAMB: How To Make Hitch-Free Registration “From February 15th, 2022, ride prices in Lagos will be changing in light of the increased operating costs that drivers incur while driving with Bolt.” According to the company, Lagos customers will now be charged the base fare of N280 for Bolt and N300 for Bolt Corporate as opposed to the previous N200 and about N250 it was before. The charges for Bolt and Bolt Corporate riders per hour has now been set at N78 and N80 respectively. Also, customers will now be paying N13 per minute on Bolt and N15 for Bolt Corporate. The minimum ride fare on the app is now N600, the notification stated. It would be recalled that the last time such an upward review was experienced was in September 2021 when just an additional 3% booking fee for riders in Nigeria was added to the app. For users of these ride-hailing services, this is likely just the first of many as riders are positing that Uber, another major player in the e-ride hailing industry will follow suit. Quick research into Uber’s activities showed that the last time a price review occurred on the service was as far back as October 2020, and it was only for the premium UberX service. From a minimum fare of N400, the price moved to N500; base fare N200 to N220 among other reviews. Their given reason was at the time based on the need to be aware of the increased costs for driver- partners. Already users of the service are worried that even if the fuel situation is resolved and things return to relatively normal, these services would not do a downward review of their prices leaving customers paying a higher amount. Bolade Joseph, a resident of Ogudu, who works at Ikoyi and is a frequent user complained bitterly about the situation. “When I saw the review I was actually so worried. For people who do short trips, it may be minimal, but for those of us who use it for a longer distance, the difference is very clear. I spend between N2000 and N2500 to my office. Now, I sometimes spend as much as N3500. This whole fuel scarcity is horrible for those of us who don’t have cars,” he lamented. Since February 4, 2022, residents in Lagos and other parts of the country have reported more-than-usual road traffic driven by fuel scarcity. The lack of fuel has generated long queues at filling stations across Lagos and other cities including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority report published earlier this month, the supply of fuel across the country depleted after authorities detected methanol levels higher than the national specifications of 2-3 per cent in recently imported gasoline. 100 million litres of the contaminated fuel were imported and distributed in the last week of January 2022. The attendant fuel scarcity has caused serious problems for vehicles across the country. Chairman of the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria, Olumide Adeosun, said that there are 136 reported cases of damaged vehicle engines as a result of the contaminated fuel even when many ordinary Nigerians would not believe the story. Despite the promise by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and various agencies that were working to ensure that the disruption caused by the substandard petrol will be resolved, fuel scarcity continues to spread with its consequences of economic hardship to the already impoverished populace. It would be recalled that the fuel crisis actually started as early as November 2021 when the Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, announced that Nigeria will remove fuel subsidies by 2022 and replace the subsidies with a transportation grant of N5000-a-month to the poorest Nigerians. Since then, fuel retailers, whom NNPC has accused of hoarding fuel, have refused to resume normal operations. This has continued despite the suspension of the subsidy removal plan approved by President Muhammadu Buhari in January 2022. Many Nigerians now believe that the retailers have cashed in to the present conundrum to hike the pump price of the product. Currently, a litre of fuel is sold between N300 and N500 if the consumer is ready to queue for hours, while those who can­not endure patronise the black market at the cost of between N700 and N1000 per litre. As of December 2021, the NNPC reported that Nigeri­ans consumed over 19.5 billion litres of petrol annually and an average of 1.6 billion litres of petrol monthly. The NNPC also mentioned that they made over N2.5 trillion from the sale of petrol between 2020 and 2021. In October 2021, the Organisa­tion of Petroleum Exporting Companies (OPEC) stated that Nigeria exported $27.7 billion worth of petroleum products in 2020. OPEC also highlight­ed that Nigeria’s petroleum imports were much higher, at around $71.3 billion. With the biting fuel scarcity and its already impact on food, products and services, some economists like Dr. Abdulahi Ahmed, believe that it will fur­ther impact the inflationary rate which dropped by 3% in Janu­ary, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). “Inflation rate dipped 0.03 points to 15.60 per cent in Jan­uary from 15.63 per cent in December but – as usual – it was too insignificant to have a positive impact on consumer goods prices. Fuel price is ris­ing along with transport fares to produce multiplier effects on the prices of other goods and services, all riding on fuel scarcity caused by the impor­tation of adulterated petrol. Apart from rising prices of fuel and transportation, there are other pressing matters begging for President Muham­madu Buhari’s attention,” Dr. Ahmed said. The latest National Bu­reau of Statistics (NBS) data shows that the inflation rate decreased 0.03 per cent month-on-month (MoM) from Decem­ber to January, as disclosed by federal Statistician-General Simon Harry. “In summary and in an attempt to make a comparison between the Jan­uary 2022 and December 2021 figures, it is important to note that headline inflation for the month of January 2022 was 15.60%, while that of December 2021 was 15.63%,” Harry said in Abuja. The urban inflation rate stood at 16.17 per cent in Janu­ary 2022, the same as in Decem­ber 2021. But Rural Inflation rose to 15.06 per cent in January from 15.11 percent in December, according to the NBS, which on Thursday announced that Nige­ria’s economy has maintained a positive trajectory for four con­secutive quarters, recording a Gross Domestics Product (GDP) growth rate of 3.98% for the 4th quarter of 2021. “It is pertinent to note that the economy has maintained this positive trajectory up to the 4th quarter of 2021, re­cording a GDP growth rate of 3.98 percent. This figure to an average Nigerian may be seen as lower than the 4.03 percent growth rate recorded in Q3, 2021. However, analytically, it is not when viewed in terms of the base effect of the corre­sponding period in Q4 of 2020 when the economy recorded a GDP growth rate of 0.11 percent as against the growth rate recorded in Q3 of the same year which was -3.62 percent. “However, in Nigeria, the prospects of consolidating the recovery are glaring consid­ering the improved economic performance over these peri­ods of time. It is important to also mention that annual GDP growth of 2021 stands at 3.40 percent,” NBS said. The NBS boss confirmed that the slowest growing activ­ities of the economy include oil refining (-43.94 per cent); crude petroleum and natural gas (-8.06 per cent); wood and wood products (-4.82 per cent); pulp, paper, and paper products (-3.33 per cent); and textile, apparel and footwear (-2.37 per cent). Dr. Ahmed, like other Ni­gerians is therefore of the view that government should as a matter of urgency halt the present fuel scarcity and perish the idea of increasing the cost of fuel pump price to avoid driving more Nigerians into the poverty hole.