David Moyes admits his West Ham United team is not in peak form at present, but hailed their inner belief and resilience as the Hammers ended a challenging week with a 2-2 Premier League draw at Leicester City. The Irons relinquished the early lead given to them by Jarrod Bowen at King Power Stadium, falling behind to Youri Tielemans’ penalty and Ricardo Pereira’s header, but came from behind to earn a point when Craig Dawson headed – or shouldered, to be accurate – in Bowen’s corner in the first minute of added time. It was the third goal West Ham had scored in added time in the space of nine days, following Declan Rice’s equaliser and Bowen’s winner in the Emirates FA Cup fourth-round win at Kidderminster Harriers last weekend. De-Jong’s Extra Time Goal Earns Barcelona Point In Derby Tammy Abraham Scores 17th Goal Of The Season As Roma Held By… Factor in a 1-0 midweek Premier League win over Watford at London Stadium, and the off-field challenges the Club has faced this week, and a haul of four points and a place in the FA Cup fifth round pleased the manager, even if he is not particularly happy with the way his team is playing. A point is OK. We’re still in that period where we’re not quite finding our mojo and our rhythm really and we know we can do a lot better. But, look, while we’re not playing as well, we’re still picking up points. I thought in the first 20 or 30 minutes, we were the better team and we needed to sort of take advantage of it then. POLL Then we started to give them a chance to get back in it. I thought we made some poor decisions on the ball and played the wrong passes at the right moments when we could have led to good opportunities. We started to give them some corner kicks and, in the end, one of them led to a penalty kick which was unfortunate, but I felt we gave them that chance to get back in the game. For Jarrod Bowen’s goal, it was a great connection he made and a good run. He was actually a little bit unlucky with one in the second half, when he didn’t quite make a good enough contact or I thought it was going in the net as well. Issa Diop played well today. Chelsea Interested In Signing Christopher Nkunku Man United Are Closer To Appointing Erik ten Hag Issa did a really good and we dealt with most things really. We just had a period in the second half, not long after half-time, when we just struggled to deal with them down their left, our right, and we just didn’t get that as good as we’d have liked. Kurt Zouma missed the game today with general sickness. You could see he was warming-up today and we hoped he was going to make it. We knew he didn’t feel well, but he really wanted to play and was desperate to play, but in the end he didn’t quite get over the line. Craig Dawson went up front late on got about them a bit before scoring his equaliser. And I have to say the subs made a difference. They helped us a little bit with different things. We couldn’t earn enough corners in the game to put a team who have been struggling a bit with set pieces under enough pressure, really. But, look, we got one in the end. There’s been time and I think we’ve been due scoring from a set-piece. We’ve gone a few games and I want us to continue being a threat and scoring from them. Look, we don’t shy away from it – we’ve not played that well, but we’re through in the FA Cup and we have picked up four points in the Premier League this week. We would like it to be more but while we’re not quite on it, we need to hang on in there and get what we can.