P/Harcourt – Oil producing communities of the Niger Delta region have been challenged to track numerous projects and money meant for such projects in the respective communities to better their wellbeing. A non-governmental organization known as Connected Development (CODE), called for government and citizens’ partnership in projects service delivery in the Niger Delta region, particularly Rivers State. CODE made the call in Port Harcourt, during a stakeholders capacity building workshop on “understanding the funding vehicle for development in Rivers State.” Oil Bunkering Is Worst Economic Sabotage, Says Wike Adulterated Fuel: CSO Gives GMD NNPC, NMDPRA Boss 7 Days To… Speaking on the sideline of the one day training, the programmes Manager for CODE, Kingsley Agu, said the event targeted oil-producing communities in Rivers State, because of the dire need for development in the areas. Agu said that government projects were scattered across the 23 local government areas, stressing that without collaborating with the natives, it would be difficult for government to effectively monitor their (projects) execution and completion as specified. “It is based on the fact that we need to empower oil-rich communities (in Rivers State)  to gain more transparency and accountability in the delivery of social amenities in their respective communities. “It is literally impossible for government to lead itself alone. Government needs the partnership of citizens and other stakeholders to be able to achieve its goal.  Projects of different kinds are scattered across the various communities. “It is not possible for government to approve,  implement and monitor at the same time, projects execution alone. So, it (government) needs  the partnership of people that dwell in the communities. It is these people that would ensure that these projects are properly executed according to specification. With this partnership, better service delivery is achieved.” POLL Rivers State Lead for CODE and Executive Director of Light Hope SuccourWide Initiative, Evelyn Williams, said it was important for communities to engage the government to ensure that resources allocated to projects in their respective communities are judiciously utilized. “The essence of the event is to build capacity of citizens to understand the funding vehicle through which budget allocations are being released. It is also about how to engage government effectively to ensure that resources that are allocated to their communities are utilized for improved service delivery.” On his part the Paramount Ruler of Ekpena Community in Ahoada East Local Government Area of the state, Eze Gabriel Udesi, said government and citizens’ partnership in projects service delivery would bring harmony, transparency and accountability, as well as speedy projects execution in various communities. The workshop was organised by CODE in partnership with Ford Foundation.