SAMUEL OGIDAN The agitation for South East presidency has taken the centre stage in the nation politics. A keen look at the political history of the nation since the country transmuted to democracy in 1999, shows that the highest the zone has attained was the President of the Senate. Even though the South East pushed for Vice President in the person of Peter Obi, when Atiku Abubakar was the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019, the All Progressives Congress (APC) eventually won the election, canceling the chances of South East for that position. Tinubu’s Achievements As Lagos Governor Qualifies Him To Be… 2023: PDP Will Return To Power, Ayu Assures Another round of election is here again and the South East felt that since the South West got it in the person of Olusegun Obasanjo for eight years, South South, in the person of Goodluck Jonathan, six years, North West got it for 10 years in the person of Musa Yar’Adua, two years, Buhari eight years and North East got Vice President, in the person of Atiku Abubakar for eight years, justice demands that the South East should been given the opportunity to have a shot at the number one seat. However, with all the agitation from every corner, none of the party, the APC and the PDP seems to show interest on zoning the presidency to the region. In the case of APC, one would have expected that since the North has ruled for eight years in the person of Buhari from North West, the position should be given to the South. The same, however, cannot be said of PDP. In the case of PDP, the South was in power for 14 years out of the 16 years it was in government. Obasanjo was there for eight years, Jonathan, six years and Yar’Adua, two years. Since PDP and APC are not operating the same Constitution, different views have been put forward by interest groups. While some said the position should be zoned to North, a different school of thought said it should be zoned to South, particularly the South East. Shortly after the 2019 election, the PDP setup a committee headed by the Bauchi state governor, Mohammed Bala, to review the election performance of PDP. Part of the recommendations of the committee was that, the party should throw open the position of the presidency for every zones to participate. The party has, however, not approve this recommendation non discarded it till date. The silence of PDP on the zoning of presidency, may have, however, fueled the agitations from some quarters as the 2023 election is fast approaching. POLL Speaking with our correspondent on this development, the Director, Public Affairs of Igbo Leadership Development Foundation (ILDF), Dr. Law Mefor, noted how some Nigerians, especially from a certain section of the country, argue how undemocratic zoning and rotation of power is. “The same sets of people have equally argued in favour of the necessity and expediency of federal character principle, which has now found its way into the nation’s Constitution and forming part of that grundnorm as a unity in diversity policy designed to keep Nigeria one. Talk of approbation and reprobation!” He, however, lamented that the way the country is structured at the moment makes it impossible for a candidate from the South East of the country to emerge the President of Nigeria without concessions, hence the push for rotation and zoning as the only remedy for now until the malady is cured by restructuring. “Federal character principle is therefore desirable but it has been observed in Nigeria largely in breech. For example, federal character principle does not mean sacrificing merit even when applied to the office of the President of Nigeria. What federal character principle offers is the right of first refusal to all segments of the country as delineated in states and Local Governments. “There is always the irreducible minimum standard or prequalification to fill the vacancies or slots being spread out. When the allotted segments do not qualify based on the set out objective criteria, the vacancies or slots return to the pool and are filled based on absolute merit. FCT Council Polls’ Result Signposts PDP’s Rescue… Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… “This has not been the practice in Nigeria. What happens here is that slots and vacancies are filled by both qualified and unqualified candidates, thus uprooting merit and throwing it out of the window while allowing clearly incompetent persons to fill positions. “The underwhelming performance of such individuals is predictable since they do not really qualify as seen in how education, public service and the nation’s military service and the police have all plunged and became shadows of themselves in the last decades.” Dr. Mefor also noted that those who argue against the desirability of zoning and rotation of power such as the office of President or governor rely on the abysmal performances of Nigerians who benefitted from quota to rise to undeserving positions. “This argument has been seriously advanced against the push for a Nigerian President of South East (Igbo) Extraction. Those against such a concession insist that the office must be open to all Nigerians so the citizens could choose whoever they please,” he said. He pointed out that this free-for-all approach is ideal for homogenous populations and or in heterogeneous populations where parts of the country coexist in structural equality and are not manipulated by its leaders so that their people may enjoy perpetual advantage in terms of leverages to power as is the case in Nigeria. This line of argument was also put forward by the presidential aspirant under the PDP, Maxi Sam Ohuabunwa, who warned the party not to temper with its zoning provision. Addressing a press conference in Abuja few days ago, the former chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), disclosed that the party Constitution recognized the imperative of the rotational clause in the effort to ensure equity and justice in the country. Arguing that federal character is applicable to the presidency, Ohuabunwa said that the position must go round all the zones, adding that zoning enhanced development. He said that at this point in time, zoning of the presidency is necessary, explaining that it can be jettisoned when Nigeria achieves a certain level of advancement. He pointed out that sections of the country, particularly the South East will feel left out if they have no opportunity to produce the president of the country. Ohuabunwa was of the opinion that the position should be taken to the South East because “right now the south East is one of the zones that has not received it, and since presidency is in the North, it should come to south and if it comes to south, the law of equity says it is South East.” Former governor of Enugu state, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani is also part of the vanguard pushing for South East presidency. The lawmaker urged the PDP to give the South East the opportunity to prove that Nigeria can work by giving it the 2023 presidential ticket. Advising that the presidential ticket should be thrown open, Forum of former and serving members of the House of Representatives on the platform of PDP, said that zoning is a poisoned chalice calculated to shift attention. Speaking on behalf of the Forum, Hon. Mukhtar Ahmed, who noted that throwing the position open will ensure that the best candidate will emerge to save the nation from APC quagmire and misrule, was quick to say that the group is not unmindful of the fact that South East, especially, has a major claim to the presidential ticket within the party. He also pointed out the zones that should also lay claim to that exulted position. According to him, regions like the entire Middle Belt in the North Central and the North East are also major claimants not having been in the saddle since the return to democracy rule in 1999. While the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Ibrahim Abdullahi, said that no section of Nigeria will be denied an opportunity to contest or aspire, former governor of Jigawa state, Sule Lamido appealed to political stakeholders across the country to avoid the issue of zoning as a criterion for leadership selection in 2023. Speaking while receiving a letter from the Northern Advocates for Good Governance (NAFGG), on behalf of Iyorchia Ayu, the National Chairman of the party recently, Abdullahi said equal opportunity would be given to “Nigerians to bid for the available political offices, those who are interested in pursuing for presidency, we are opening it for every Nigerians to pursue and many other offices with national outlook. Nigerians are free to pursue.” With all these arguments from different quarters barely a year to the presidential election scheduled for February 18, 2023, there are palpable fears in the South East that this opportunity will bypass them again, hence the serious calls and agitations for zoning of presidency to the region.