LAGOS – Jim Ovia Foundation and Zenith Bank Plc, on Friday, made good their promises as 3,500 indigent fresh students of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) were presented tablets as support from Jim Ovia and two organisations. The symbolic presentation was witnessed by parents, guardians and the 11,885 fresh students offered admission for the 2021/2022 matriculation ceremony held at the Jelili Omotola auditorium of the university, Akoka main campus. Mr. Jim Ovia, represented by Mr.Dennis, an Executive Director urged the beneficiaries and others to be strong and remain focussed as they were before admission. IGP Charges Strategic Police Managers On Intelligence-Driven… OAU Queries Hostel Owner Over Death Of 100 Level Student Who… He tasked the articulating students to pass through the university, remain committed and allow the university to pass through them as they commenced a journey into tertiary education. He lauded the management of the University for sustaining the standard of training and producing quality manpower for all facets of the country’s socio-economic needs. Me. Ovia assured that having recognised the need for youth development, the Foundation and Zenith Bank Plc would continue to support the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerian youths asthe future belongs to them. Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe advised the matriculants to beware of distractions that abound as they begin the new journey, saying that the university would train them as the change agents Nigeria requires. Prof. Ogundipe urged the new students to be focussed, committed, determined and take dominion over the situations of the country. POLL “Don’t join gangs, be determined to succeed, make sure assignments and tests that concern your studies are properly attended to always, play your roles effectively and positively as it concerns Unilag as a student and alumni, put Unilag first, we want you to train and rebrand you as leaders that will change Nigeria’s social and economic space positively. He commended parents’ and guardians’ choice of the University of Lagos first among others institutions’ choice for a life-changing experience for their wards. The highlight of the ceremony was the oath-taking exercise and admission of the freshers as bonafide students of the institution.