LAGOS – Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor has said the state government would continue to support the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and better the lives of Lagosians. He said this on Saturday at the Interdenominational Divine Service (IDDS), annually organised by the Lagos Chapter of CAN, Sanwo-Olu, while addressing participants during the IDDS themed: ‘Choose You This Day Whom You Will Serve’, said IDDS stands for unity and progress, which his administration stands for. Lagos Remains Committed To Quality Service To God, Humanity… LASG Executes 1449 School Projects – Commissioner At the special thanksgiving and prayers service for the state and Nigeria, held at the LAWNA Territorial Headquarters of the Apostolic Church in Nigeria, the governor acknowledged the preacher’s (His Grace, Archbishop Adewale Martins of Catholic Lagos Archdiocese) call that political leaders serve God with their positions. He, noted using his office to serve God, saying there was no better service than to serve God and fellow humans. However, Sanwo-Olu asked Lagosians to bear with the Lagos State Government (LASG) because of the road works being carried out simultaneously in the state. He, assured that by the end of the year, the railroads around Mile2 and Iju would be ready, adding that were 1000 projects in the education sector with classrooms and schools with sports facilities in place. These he said was to enable children to compete favourably with their counterparts in the outside world. Also, he urged parents to return their out of school children to the classroom. POLL Adegbite Chairman Lagos CAN, in his speech, appealed to religious leaders to continue to pray that God grants the political leaders the grace to serve the nation. He thanked Sanwo-Olu for his efforts in making the state better and giving priority to the things of God. In his sermon, His Grace, Archbishop Adewale Martins of Catholic Lagos Archdiocese represented by Rev. Fr. Jacob Usman called for unity while asking individuals to choose to serve God and abstain from evil. Meanwhile, several leaders across the blocs of CAN graced the occasion, with prayers of intercession offered.