LOKOJA The battle for who succeeds an outgoing governor is always fiercer than the second term of the incumbent. It is gradually becoming a tradition among governors to meddle in and even think for the electorate on the choice of who becomes their successor, hence speculations of governors anointing their successor among the crowd of aspirants. In such state, stakeholders becomes interested in the body language of the incumbent governor, from which to take a cue. While some outgoing governors are lucky to have a pool of competent collaborators from which to recruit, others are not. Then comes the talk of picking someone for the job by consensus, who could be drawn from the pool of mentees and then presented to the public. However, such an arrangement is alien to Kogi State, where every gubernatorial election has seen strange faces foisted on the people. Since its creation in 1991, there has not been any concerted effort by any serving governor to groom individuals with their cabinet serving as a pool to take over the mantle of leadership. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award From Governor Ibrahim Audu in 2003 to Alhaji Ibrahim Idris in 2011 and Captain Idris Wada in 2016, the various chief executives failed to tap from the reservoir of experienced and tested members of their Cabinet to advance the policies and programmes they fashioned, while ensuring continuity for the good of the state. However, this trend of strange candidates and dark horses may continue when the governorship election holds a year after the country’s general poll, unless the outgoing Governor Yahaya Bello allows, to a large extent, the people to play crucial roles in the choice of his successor. Otherwise, the confluence state and first operational base of Lord Frederick Lugard could yet end up having another candidate from faraway Jupiter. Meanwhile, the sound outside the acoustic political theatre is already rending the airwaves as a handful of gladiators, across political divides, have started oiling their machinery to occupy Lugard House in 2024. Ironically, most of the would-be contenders are studying the political firmament that will shape their stand from the fallout of the ruling All Progressives Congress National Convention, which may not hold after all because those who know say there has not been any clear cut direction. For example, less than two weeks to the February 26, 2022, sale of forms for those seeking various offices in the party’s National Executive Committee is yet to begin as of press time, amidst sundry allegations against the Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee that has overstayed the original lifespan of six months. There are some who are waiting in the wings studying the body language of the incumbent governor concerning the zoning formula to be adopted before veering into an uncertain contest. POLL However, from available innuendoes and permutations, it may be clear, that in a very short while, they may declare their intention, no matter how damning the consequences could be. According to some pundits, the successful conduct of the APC’s National Convention would open up a floodgate of aspirants as the strengths and weaknesses of the various aspirants become clear, and those threading on factional lines know their fate. From the Kogi Eastern Senatorial District, one man that many expect would seek to replace his boss and fight for the APC ticket is the incumbent deputy governor, Chief Edward David Onojah, believed to be a very close ally and confidant of Governor Yahaya Adoza Bello. Although, there seemed to be no love lost between them in this second term, analysts believe their frosty relationship was a decoy to ward off prying eyes from his eventual support. The truth in this will certainly play out in the months leading to the governorship elections in the state. Kogi East is peopled by the Igala nation and has nine local government areas, and is known to possess the largest voting bloc when compared to the other zones, and many believe that should the electorate be allowed to exercise their franchise in line with the Amended Electoral Bill now awaiting the assent of President Muhammadu Buhari, Onojah will not be too far from replacing his boss at the Lugard Courtyard in Lokoja. The deputy governor hails from Olamaboro Local Government Area, his kith and kin from the nine LGAs may stand against his aspiration, as they have not forgotten in a hurry, his alleged inglorious roles against the zone in his bid to stabilize the government. 2023 Elections: Women Group (NCWSN) Clamour For Mass… APC Chieftain, Alao Faults Makinde’s Peace Talks With Area… Onojah, popularly known as CEDO has had enough tutorials on governance, having spent four years as Chief of staff to the governor and two years now as deputy governor of the state, besides the enormous resources that could be the deal clincher. Although, he has not publicly declared his intention for the plum job, people closed to the duo, when the going was excellent, prophesied a hidden agreement of baton transfer at the end of Bello’s final term. This conjecture is contingent on the crucial roles Onojah played in the emergence of Alhaji Yahaya Bello in 2016 and his subsequent re-election. Could this be payback time? Will the governor be faithful? Analysts, however, believe one challenge that stands between him and government house is the zoning arrangement, which they argue favours the Western Senatorial District, going by equity and fairness, being the only zone yet to taste power since the state was created in 1991. This may be responsible for the deafening silence of the governor regarding where the pendulum should swing between an ally and equity. This may also be responsible for the scarcity of aspirants declaring their interest whether publicly, or covertly at different fora where they unveil their agenda. But time, alone will decide on who runs or not. Another name that keeps resonating from Omala Local Government Area, also in Kogi East, is a former aspirant Abubakar Idris, son of the former two-term governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party PDP (2003-2011). Abubakar who lost the 2019 PDP governorship primary to Engineer Musa Wada under unclear circumstances, is allegedly being prodded across the nooks and crannies of the state. Although, he has not publicly made his intention known, he is said to be under pressure from the people to rescue the state, and is said to enjoy the support of his father. In what may seem the determination of the Igala nation to retake the governorship is the interest of yet another son who is currently keeping the political airways of the state busy, Alhaji Murtala Yakubu, the Personal Assistant to the chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee, and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Although, relatively new to the political turf, it is not known how his connection to the APC top echelon could be a strong proposition, given that state governors are in firm control of the party structure in the state. There are the issues of Governor Bello presidential aspiration that may also be a factor in the entire equation. Although Yakubu, from Ajaka, headquarters of Igala Mela Odolu Local Government Area, has not openly declared his intention, many interpret his sudden philanthropic gestures to his constituency as confirmation of his interest. The presence of the various political heavyweights from the more populous Kogi East is reason many from Central and Western Zones who are would-be contenders are waiting on Governor Bello’s body language, or outright backing to proceed. At every social gatherings today however in Kogi, the song on the lip of every political busy body is that Governor Bello may anoint his chief of staff, Jamiu Asuku, a Pharmacist, who is also from Okene Local Government Area like him. Those who say so, point to the governor’s body language in recent times, and flagrant display of confidence in Asuku, which may have heightened the suspicion. If true, political watchers believe, this may be the albatross of the governor who clocks 47 on June 18. Those awaiting the outcome of the forthcoming APC convention, to indicate their interest include in the race include Senator Smart Adeyemi, James Abiodun Faleke, a member of the House of Representatives representing Ikeja, Lagos, as well as the incumbent Commissioner for Finance, Asiwaju Idris Ashiru, and host of others. Many political pundits believe the race is yet open with so much uncertainties and unknown elements that many play vital roles in determining who replaces Governor Belo, besides the APC primaries that remains could be postponed again given the level of readiness. One major factor that may play a major role is the outcome of the 2023 general elections apart from whether the contenders of Igala extraction who are scaring those of other zones away would allow the coveted seat slip off their fingers again.