Manchester United hold a ‘serious’ interest in Borussia Dortmund star Manuel Akanji. The centre-back’s contract expires in 2023 and the Bundesliga are struggling to persuade him to sign an extension. Akanji currently earns around €5m a year and club chiefs are reportedly willing to up his pay to €8m. That’s according to Bild (via Sport Witness), who claim the Switzerland international is holding out for at least €10m – a deal that would put him among the top earners at the club. But Dortmund are said to be unwilling to stretch to the 26-year-old’s demands and ‘this problem could now solve itself’ with United ‘serious’ about signing the defender. It’s claimed United boss Ralf Rangnick is leading the charge for Akanji, with the Red Devils offering a four-year deal with a salary of €15m. A transfer fee of around €25m is said to be ‘under discussion’, for a player whose ‘dream’ is to play in the Premier League, with United his ‘dream club’. The report states that if United want Akanji a transfer is ‘very likely’ in the summer. POLL Meanwhile, United legend Paul Scholes claims his former side have been “very lucky” under Rangnick. Anthony Elanga came off the bench to secure a draw in Madrid on Wednesday night, but United were second best for much of the game against Atletico. Rangnick was frustrated with his side’s display but Scholes believes it was a “typical performance”. “When you say strange performance, I don’t think it is a strange… it is a typical Man Utd performance these days, since November when this manager came in,” he said on BT Sport. “It’s been very much the same, they have been very lucky to get through games and win games but you have to say his record is very good. I think his substitutes as well, on Sunday he made a big call bringing Fred on [and] Fred scores the winner. “Tonight he has made a big call, we were all looking thinking “these subs look a little bit strange” and then Elanga comes on and scores a goal. So it is not strange for me, it is just a typical Man Utd performance tonight.”