Diego Simeone may be known as a defensive coach, but he has gone firmly on the charm offensive prior to Atletico Madrid’s Champions League clash with Manchester United. The Spanish champions come into the fixture some way off their best, having seen their title tilt disintegrate amidst a wretched run of form. The two-legged tie with United looks one of the more evenly balanced in the round-of-16, with both sides some way below their legendary teams of the past. Arteta Glad To See Jimenez Back After Skull Fracture De Gea Sets Man Utd Target Ahead Of ‘Special’… But Simeone has quashed any suggestions that they have been given an easier ride, claiming the Red Devils are still “one of the best teams in the world” with two of the best midfielders in the game. United are in the Spanish capital to take on Atletico at the Wanda Metropolitano and Simeone believes that under Ralf Rangnick, the Premier League giants are one of the most formidable sides in the competition. “We’re facing one of the best teams in the world in the last 14 games, if I’m not mistaken,” Simeone said. “They’ve just lost one. With the new manager, Ralf Rangnick, it’s given the team solidity, teamwork, and commitment. “We can see what Manchester United was always like. They’ve evolved since the new manager arrived, they’re already fourth in the league. “It’s an intense, dynamic team, very brave, with very good forwards, very good footballers overall and who try to make a huge effort to try and unite the huge talents they have in 11 players. POLL “It’s going to be a very difficult game, as every Champions League game is. But we have a lot of anticipation to play in our stadium in front of our fans and we’re lucky to play the last 16 at home because we couldn’t play that, we couldn’t do that last year.” One area of major concern for United supporters is there options in midfield, having been swept aside by Manchester City and Liverpool prior to Rangnick’s appointment in November. But the Argentine head coach claims that in Paul Pogba and Scott McTominay they possess two of the best in that position. “They have an incredible midfield,” Simeone added. I am incredibly impressed with the work rate. “Pogba and McTominay are two of the best midfielders in the world with a great balance. Arteta Guarantees Wilshere Return To Arsenal, Says… Conte Reveals Transfer Battles With Paratici Over Lukaku,… “The team is much more compact, it’s stronger. They have a solidity at the back, they’re a very physical team with the central defenders and the midfield they’ve got. “They are really strong and it’s really, really difficult to find vulnerabilities there. “I always assess the virtues of our rival, but of course we will try to find a way to try and hurt them, try and find our way to the goal, if you like.”