ABUJA – Mr Osita Okechukwu, a founding member of All Progressives Congress (APC) has faulted Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Mohammed’s argument against the party’s zoning of the 2023 Presidency to the South, saying that the governor got it wrong on all fronts. Okechukwu said Governor Bala’s disposition shows a lack of dynamism in the political thinking of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, stressing that the opposition party has shown that it is incapable of upstaging APC, especially when the unity and prosperity of Nigeria is not uppermost in their calculations. Bauchi State governor had, after his visit to Obasanjo in Abeokuta told journalists that APC’s decision to zone the Presidency to the South is not a threat to the PDP because APC’s strategy is to whip up ethno-religious sentiment. 2023: Bala Mohammed Visits Obasanjo, Says APC Zoning No Threat… 2023: Over 10,000 supporters Hold Solidarity Rally For Umahi… But, speaking to reporters in Abuja, yesterday, Okechukwu, who is also the Director General (DG) of Voice of Nigeria (VON) says that reasoning was wrong: “Methinks if the statement credited to him is correct, His Excellency, Bala Mohammed and by extension PDP, is simply being opportunistic by saying that APC’s zoning of Presidency to the South is not a threat to the PDP, because if we put it to the North, it will give us more electoral victory. That’s ethnic chauvinism simple. “The Bauchi State governor and PDP seem to forget that Nigerians are fair-minded and uphold justice and equity in their voting preferences. That was why the late Moshood Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), defeated Alhaji Bashir Tofa in his Kano State home in 1993. “In 2023, Nigerians are going to repeat that feat by acknowledging President Muhammadu Buhari and APC’s decision to do the right things for national unity peace and progress. He regretted that “after just seven years in opposition, PDP has retained its character of deception, duplicity, selfishness, promise and fail; otherwise how can a rational political party flagrantly and unscrupulously breach its constitution, which expressly ingrained zoning?” POLL On the perception that PDP’s strategy could be geared towards getting more votes from the north, Okechukwu insisted that the Bauchi governor may be speaking on behalf of those who underrate the political sophistication of the north and their abiding faith in equity, natural justice and good conscience. “The north cannot be led by the nose by Governor Mohammed and his co-travellers. Have we forgotten how notable northern politicians like Alhajis Abubakar Rimi, Umaru Shinkafi, Adamu Ciroma, Dr Sola Saraki et al out of overriding public interest and uncommon patriotism constructed the zoning convention, which birthed the 4th Republic as the longest democratic era in the annals of Nigerian history?