ABUJA – As part of activities to World Cancer Day, Nigeria Cancer Society petitions Netflix, FilmOne, Ebonylife and others to remove tobacco scenes from Nollywood movies. A statement jointly signed by Dr. Adamu Alhassan Umar, President, Nigerian Cancer Society, and Ms. Esther Aghotor, Creative Director, #SmokeFreeNollywood, noted that the #SmokeFreeNollywood campaign have launched a public digital petition to Nollywood filmmakers to remove tobacco from Nigeria’s film industry. According to the Nigerian Cancer Society President, Dr. Adamu Alhassan Umar, who made a video explainer on Friday, tobacco use is responsible for the deaths of over 70,000 Nigerians, where movies influenced more than one-third of them to start the habit. Host Community Threatens Showdown With Agip, Petitions Bayelsa… FG Announces Plan To Regulate Netflix, Other Streaming Platforms “Many Nollywood films today contain smoking scenes that glamourise the use of tobaccoproducts such as cigarettes, and Shisha and unconsciously recruit viewers into damaging habits that harm their health. “Tobacco use is the leading cause of cancer. And cancer is responsible for the deaths of 70,000 Nigerians every year. About a third of smokers started this habit through the influence of movies. After all, if their favourite characters are comfortable using tobacco on screen, it feels safe and trendy. But it is not.“Tobacco kills up to half of its users and leaves others with a lifetime of health complications. Tobacco is responsible for lung, mouth, throat, bladder, kidney, liver, stomach, pancreas,oesophagus, larynx, colon, rectum, and cervix cancers. There is no safe or relaxed level oftobacco use. “As the Nigerian Cancer Society President, I call on Nollywood filmmakers, particularlystreaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime, and distributors such as FilmOne, Genesis, and Ebony Life, to remove tobacco use from movies. This call is in line with the Nigerian Tobacco Control Act that prohibits tobacco advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Films depicting historical tobacco users as characters must contain strong anti-smoking narratives and health warnings. Many filmmakers globally are already toeing this path in the interest ofpublic health. “As responsible corporate citizens, we are responsible for protecting our audience, particularly the young ones. A smoke-free Nollywood can help save lives and defeat cancer.” POLL The President of the Nigerian Cancer Society called on the public to join him in signing thepetition