Feedback. We dread it! Run away from it! Fuel Subsidy: Good Politics Federalism: The Relationship Between The Federating States And… Fight it! But if you must succeed at work and in life, you must embrace feedback as your teacher and make it your best friend. Feedback has been with us from the beginning when the first couple ate the fruit and became naked. And since then, feedback, both formal and informal, has been humanity’s guide. Everywhere you turn, you see one form of feedback or the other. It is an integral part of our daily lives. At home, we see feedback in the mirror we look at as we dress up for work; in sports, we see feedback through the scoreboard and weekly standings; in business, we see feedback through the results posted; in politics, we see feedback through the state of the economy. One difference between successful and unsuccessful people is their attitude towards feedback from their superiors, colleagues, subordinates, customers, spouses and even children. Successful people seek regular, timely, on-the-spot feedback and make adjustments, where and when necessary, while the not so successful despise feedback and run from it or attack those trying to give the feedback. But life will always give us feedback, whether we like it or not. If we do not seek it and receive it when we can use it and make the necessary corrections, we will get it when it is too late. The boss who hands the subordinate his termination letter, the spouse who files for divorce, the customer who takes the business elsewhere, and the politician who loses his reelection are examples of feedback. But perhaps, it came a little too late. I’d rather have feedback, no matter how painful it may be, when I can use it, than have feedback when it is almost useless for me to do anything about it. At that point, the only thing we have left is a life of barren regrets, a wasted genius, and a missed opportunity. POLL Feedback Defined So what is feedback? At its simplest, feedback is the Consequence of Choices (CoC) or the Return on Choices (RoC). The Universe is established upon fixed laws with rewards or consequences; feedback is the vehicle through which the Universe informs us of our alignment or misalignment with its laws. What we call success and failure, poverty and prosperity, frustration and fulfilment is feedback from the Universe about our choices and their alignment with its laws. For example, we can choose how we want to live our lives, serve our customers, relate with our colleagues; our choices create consequences, and the consequences come to us as feedback. Once we make a choice, we set in motion a cascade of events culminating in the consequences, whether we like them or not. See feedback as NEWS Broadcast. Feedback is your personal news channel, informing you of your alignment or misalignment to nature’s laws. Some will come suddenly, what we call breaking news or breakthroughs; others will come slowly. Either way, life will always give you feedback. Feedback is Feedback: It is Neither Good nor Bad I know we sometimes tend to classify feedback as good or bad. But feedback is neither good nor bad. It is simply feedback. What makes it good or bad is how we perceive it. For example, if I tell you that you need to pay attention to details, is it good or bad feedback? It depends on the interpretation you give to it. Usually, people call feedback good when it makes them feel good or points to what they are doing well and the reverse as bad feedback. Good or positive feedback can lead to pride, arrogance, and complacency, while bad or negative feedback can lead to soul-searching, humility, and reinvention. Therefore, don’t classify feedback as either good or bad. It is simply feedback, or you can call them reinforcing and corrective feedback. Education Sector And FG’s Promises If I Were Tinubu You need a measure of both types of feedback to be successful. You need reinforcing feedback to help you capitalize on your strengths and corrective feedback to help you correct your weaknesses. I know there is a Strengths-based Movement that teaches people to focus on their strengths and ignore their weaknesses, but that movement forgets that leaders are often destroyed, not by their strengths, but by the weaknesses they failed to deal with on their way to the top. The examples abound of stars who came crashing down from the lofty heights of success because of a weakness they failed to control or bridle. R Kelly is a recent example. You need both reinforcing and corrective feedback to get to the top. Progress is impossible without improvement, and improvement is impossible without accepting and working on some “negative”, or more accurately, corrective feedback. So instead of calling it negative feedback, why not see it as an area of improvement, an opportunity to get better? You cannot raise your performance, become a better person (whether as a leader, employee, spouse, or parent), innovate and improve your service delivery to customers without feedback. If you want to succeed in life and at work in 2022, then feedback must be your companion. As leadership author and consultant Ken Blanchard puts it, “Feedback is the breakfast of champions!” If feedback is the breakfast of champions, it means those who go without it become malnourished in their pursuit of success. Have you had your feedback breakfast today, this week? • Dr Maxwell Ubah is a growth strategist, organisational transformation expert, and an executive leadership coach. He is a graduate of the prestigious Sloan Fellowship Programme in Leadership and Strategy from the London Business School.