LAGOS  – The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is making frantic efforts to address the issue of zoning of its presidential ticket for the 2023 general election as any further delay on the issue may create problems for the party. With about a year to the general elections, the PDP is determined and keen on reclaiming power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). For many analysts, it is no doubt a decisive time for the leadership of the PDP as it navigates the bumpy road to the 2023 general elections. 2023: Nnamani, Others Push For Ugwuanyi Presidency COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose In what appeared a semblance of the Federal Character Principle, the PDP enshrined zoning and rotation of national offices in its Constitution at inception in 1998 to give a sense of belonging to its members, South and North of the divide. And after a seemingly successful national convention, the main opposition party now has a choice to make on which of the zones gets its presidential ticket. The present agitation within the two main political parties is that the southern region, especially the South-East, must produce the next president of the country. The Zoning Principle In 1999, when the country returned to a democratic rule, the PDP produced a president from the southern region in person, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who is from the south-west. He was on the exalted seat for eight years and in 2007, he handed over to the late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua from the northern region, who was only able to occupy the office for just two years. POLL After Yar’Adua’s death, Goodluck Jonathan, who was his vice, took over and served the remainder of the term. Arguments, however, reached fever pitch when prominent northerners felt Jonathan ought to have simply completed that tenure and quit the stage for a northerner to complete the four years left for the region. Jonathan, backed by Obasanjo and a handful of northern politicians, emerged the PDP flag bearer for 2011 and went to head to win convincingly, beating Muhammadu Buhari of the now-defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). In 2015, Jonathan’s insistence on trying his luck backfired and the party, which once boasted of having the capacity and nationwide acceptance to remain in the helm for 60 years, lost to the APC. Speaking on speculations that the party has jettisoned its rotational presidency and zoning culture, a former deputy national chairman (South) of the party, Chief Olabode George, explained that zoning has not been jettisoned, but that the current impasse on where the presidency would be zoned to arose because the party did not envisage it would lose power and another party which would produce the president would be formed. He said the party has learnt from its mistake and that in the next six months, issues regarding zoning would be resolved. Gombe 2023: Contest Or Incur Our Wrath, Akko Youths Urge Dattuwa 2023 Benue Guber: I Have Undying Passion To Serve – Waya He said at the inception of the PDP, the founders decided to zone the presidency between the north and the south and for equity, further split the country into six geo-political zones out of which the top six positions would be shared. “PDP has not jettisoned rotational presidency, what it has done is to give everyone the opportunity to participate. How we came about zoning is that the founding fathers of the party, whom we call the G9, met and decided that we should divide Nigeria into six geopolitical zones; three in the North,(north-central, north-east, and north-west), and in the south, you have south-east, south-south and the south-west. “Now, with these geo-political zones, they now sat back and said ‘look, there are six top positions in the government, which are the president, the vice president, the senate president, speaker of the House of Reps, the secretary to the government of the federation and the party national chairman.’ So six geo-political zones and six top positions. “They said since there are six top positions in government which would be divided among the geopolitical zones, after eight years, all positions in the North would come to the South and all positions in the South would come to the North. So, no zone, whether you are minority or majority, will go home without something to show to their people. So that sense of commitment was established. “But the mistake they made was that they didn’t envisage that another political party that can produce the president would emerge. You know it wasn’t in our political equation. So when the APC now produced the president and he’s from the north – we never added that into our political equations. “I was shocked when the zoning committee said they were only allowed to zone party positions. If you are zoning the national chairmanship, you must consider where the presidential candidate would come from. “We have made mistakes and we have learned. At the maximum, six months from now, we would rise above it and come out with a position that would be acceptable to everyone,” George said. Eyes On The Presidency There have, however, been various contradictory speculations as to what the PDP will do concerning the zoning issue. While some say the party will throw the ticket open, there are others who claim that the party is zoning the ticket to the north, where it is likely to get the needed number of votes to defeat the APC. While various groups, individuals and stakeholders within the party have continued to clamour and argue over why the ticket should come to their zones, sources within the party say the party is not leaving anything to chance, as it is very determined to outsmart the APC in the coming general elections by winning the presidential election. They disclosed that the party knowing full well that the largest number of votes usually come from the north, may end up considering a strong and popular candidate from the north to realise its intention. “We don’t have to deceive ourselves, if really, we want to reclaim power from the APC, we must present a strong candidate and if you look at the whole of the south, can you tell me someone who can win election for us in the PDP? I don’t think we have. “So, the best we can do for ourselves is to pick a candidate from that place where the largest number of votes come from and where is that? It is in the north. I can tell you for a fact that the PDP presidential candidate will come from the north and eventually, we will win the election,” a top source said. Crucial Decision Soon Another top chieftain of the party, who spoke on the basis of anonymity, maintained that the party will come out with a decision on the issue of zoning very soon. He said: “The decision on zoning has been concluded and we will make it known in a matter of weeks. Whatever we have decided is in the interest of the party and it has nothing to do with favouring a region over the other, we are determined to oust the APC from the Villa and that we are going to achieve.” In the past few months, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Governors Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed of Sokoto and Bauchi States, respectively, as well as former Governors Rabiu Kwankwaso (Kano) and Bukola Saraki (Kwara), all northerners, have gone the whole distance to leave no one in doubt of their interest in the PDP presidential ticket. Their position comes against the backdrop of the clamour for the successor of Buhari to emerge from the South and the body language of APC, which seems to favour the argument. To Atiku, Tambuwal, Mohammed, Kwankwaso and Saraki, PDP should head in the opposite direction in search of its flag bearer. This move by the above mentioned individuals, according to sources, has not gone down well with Governors Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom, as well as Senator Pius Anyim, Dele Momodu and Sam Ohuabunwa who argue that, regardless of party affiliations, no Nigerian with love for motherland should root for another northerner to remain in the saddle after Buhari complete his second term in 2023. The governors, arguably the most vocal anti-northern presidential candidate in 2023, are said to be oiling their political machinery preparatory to making an official declaration before the end of March this year. Sources claimed that Wike has already reached out to Tambuwal, whom he supported at the 2018 presidential primary in Port Harcourt, to accept to be his running mate while the Akwa Ibom governor is believed to have met with some eminent Nigerians on his planned declaration. Pushing For Fairness, Justice Meanwhile, a political movement under the aegis of Justice and Equity Group (JEG), last week, made a case for the zoning of the presidential ticket of the party to the North in the interest of fairness and justice. The JEG, which is a group within the PDP, recalled that the presidency of the country when the PDP was in power at the centre, remained in the South for a total of 14 years when former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan were in the saddle, while the North, under late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua only retained power for two years. The Chairman of the group and former Deputy Majority Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ahmed Muktar, in a statement in Abuja, also reasoned that it would be in the party’s interest to abide by the earlier decision of its National Executive Committee, which threw open the presidential ticket of PDP to all zones. According to him, the best candidate, who could win the presidential election for the PDP and “change the terrible mess, which the ruling All Progressives Congress has turned Nigeria into,” should be allowed to emerge from any zone in the country. “We think that in the greater interest of the PDP, we should abide by the earlier PDP National Executive Committee decision that threw open the presidential ticket of PDP to all zones. “Let the best candidate that can win the election for the PDP and change the terrible mess APC has turned Nigeria into emerge. “A blanket ban on any region from contesting for presidency under PDP is manifestly and patently unreasonable, unjust, unfair and contrary to natural justice. It is wrong and will not fly in a democracy,” he added. Few weeks ago, former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, disagreed with those asking that the 2023 presidential ticket of the PDP be zoned to the Southern part of Nigeria. While featuring in an interview with Channels Television recently, Kwankwaso condemned the insistence of the Southern Governors Forum in July 2021 that the next president of the country must come from their region rather than what is best. He considered the call by the governors and other leaders as an attempt to intimidate the northern region into relinquishing its right to contest the seat. He said the decision to contest should be based on strategy rather than mere clamour or sentiments, just as he maintained that the party had produced more southern presidents than the north. “You see many people are mixing what ordinarily shouldn’t come together at all. We have PDP, we have APC, we have APGA and we have many other parties today in this country. And the issue of where a party put his presidency or vice presidency is a matter of strategy. “If you look at it from 1999, to date, or even after 2023, we have 16 years for PDP, eight years for APC. Now, in the 16 years of PDP, we had a situation where the presidency has been in the south for 14 years and only in the north for two years during the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua of blessed memory. “Now, we see some people, maybe because they don’t understand politics or they want to be mischievous, keep mixing the two issues of two political parties together. This PDP and APC are contestants in this game,” he said. Also, a former commissioner for information in Edo State and a chieftain of the PDP, Prince Kassim Afegbua, last Sunday, called on the opposition party to zone its 2023 presidential ticket to the south. Afegbua argued that doing this, will assuage the feelings of stakeholders from the southern part of Nigeria. He further said that the southern geo-political zones of Nigeria have eminently qualified Nigerians and parade great minds who are competent and ready to take a shot at the number one job. “Those who are advancing the very nebulous theory of seeing the northern population as a stimulant to win the sympathy of the north against the south are either ignorant of the real demographics or at best, just playing the ostrich. No one in the north should take away what belongs to the south. That will be hurting the consciences and feelings of the average southerner,” he said. South-East Agitation The party recently denied zoning its presidential ticket to the North. However, should it fail to zone the presidency to the South, the party is likely going to witness mass exodus, according to a PDP group, Vanguard for Justice. The group in a statement by its Chairman, Emmanuel Nduka, warned the party against zoning the position to the North, insisting that zoning the presidency to the South would engender national unity, equity and justice. In addition, the group said the fact that most of the people pushing for power shift to the South, indicates that what Nigeria needs in 2023 is a southern president. On his part, a stalwart of the PDP and 2021 Anambra State governorship aspirant, Ike Oligbo, last week, decried alleged move by the party to jettison equity and fairness in zoning its 2023 presidential ticket to the South East. He cautioned that any attempt to impose another northern candidate on PDP “with a skewed manner with ridiculous logic that zoning is only for APC”, could result in PDP suffering severe electoral misfortunes if the APC picks a candidate from the South, especially the South East. Oligbo, a United Nations award-winning lawyer and business mogul, who spoke with newsmen in Awka, emphasised the need for PDP to take the strong feelings of party members in the South East into consideration before jettisoning the equity and fairness zoning formula which is categorically enshrined in the party’s constitution. He said: “The South East has a lot of qualified and credible individuals that can stand in as both candidates for PDP and APC, and denying the South East the equitable and rightful chance to produce the next president of Nigeria by bringing up some ridiculous childish theories that the North still has four years under PDP is both uncharitable and condescending to PDP South East members.” He, however, cautioned that such a move by PDP could give birth to anti-party activities resulting in the decimation of the party in the South East. He advised fellow PDP chieftains not to be in a hurry to discard the zoning system but allow more time for intra-party consultations and consensus in achieving the expected and desired equity for a presidential candidate from South East extraction in 2023. “No ethnic group in Nigeria has federated Nigeria more than Ndigbo, consequently, Ndigbo’s right to be president of Nigeria should be respected,” he said. As it stands, the issues on the table are very crucial to the party’s determination to return to power in 2023, and it requires great statesmanship on the part of the leadership to resolve the make-or-break situation.