Manchester City are in talks to extend the contract of Bernardo Silva. It is believed that the Mancunian outfit have held positive talks with the Portugal international’s representatives over a contract extension with the player’s current deal set to run out in the summer of 2025. Silva has enjoyed a good run of form at the Etihad Stadium during this campaign after putting in a series of influential performances as a key member of Pep Guardiola’s attack. The 27-year-old has banged in eight goals and provided two assists in 29 matches for Man City this season on all fronts. Manchester City’s Joao Cancelo Signs Contract Extension Manchester City Have Bukayo Saka “On Their Radar” The Portuguese sensation has given a good account of himself by averaging 1.8 tackles, 1.2 shots, 1.6 key passes and 1.8 dribbles per game in the Premier League. He has even been excellent when interchanging possession in the opposition half as he has completed 88.8% of his attempted passes in league football (stats via who Silva is a great dribbler with the ball at his feet and can create some clear-cut chances for his teammates in the attacking end of the field. He is proficient at generating a yard of space for himself to get a few shots in on-target.scored). The 64-time Portugal international has transformed himself into a composed finisher in front of the opponent’s goal. Furthermore, he hardly gives away the ball which makes him such an important member of Guardiola‘s starting XI. At 27, Silva is playing at his prime and could help the Mancunian giants maintain their dominance in English football over the next few years. The Lisboa-born talent can also benefit from committing his long-term future to Man City so that he can solely concentrate on performing at his best on the field. With all things considered, Silva’s contract extension will be a good move for both the player and the Mancunian club as they look to collectively bring even more success to the Etihad Stadium in the coming seasons.