AKURE – Pastor Jide Ipinsagba has described the high rate of unemployment among youths and other classes of able-bodied Nigerians as the reason for poverty across the country. Ipinsagba, who is one of the prominent senatorial aspirants for Ondo North Senatorial District, promised to address the lingering problems of poverty, unemployment and educational challenges of the people of the district. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain promised a purposeful representation if chosen by his party and elected by the people in 2023, that unemployment and poverty were responsible for the festering social vices in the country. APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns He made the observations during his visit to the APC’s Secretariats in Ose and Owo local government areas of the state where he met the party’s Executives, members and supporters. The chairman of Ose Council, Chief Ladi Tenabe and Chairman of Owo Council, Hon Samuel Olusanya led the executives and members at their council areas. Pastor Jide Ipinsagba said he is the right person to lead Ondo North into the Promised Land, and promised to bring to bear exemplary leadership and ensure that democratic governance prevailed. He said: “If given chance to run for the election by the people of Ondo North, I will ensure that the high poverty index, youth unemployment and other social ills in our area become a thing of the past. “I also promised to make youth empowerment and general well-being of the people my priority, if given the chance to represent the senatorial district,” he assured. POLL In his address, a former Chairman, Local Government Service Commission, Hon. Femi Idris told the party faithful that he’s supporting Ipinsagba because he has been tested and found trustworthy. Idris said: “He has been tried and tested. He has a mega vision for the senatorial district. He listens to the people and his plans are always for the collective good. That is the person we want to be our representative at the Senate. “It is interesting to note that Ondo North Senatorial District has six Local governments. Owo/Ose Federal Constituency has gone to Senate twice, Akoko South West and Akoko South-East currently at the Senate with 12 years (three terms). It is the now  turn of Akoko North-East/Akoko West.” Idris further explained that Akoko North West currently has a Member House of Representatives, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji Ojo (BTO) and we want him to continue beyond 2023 because he has performed creditable and this will give Akoko North East to produce the Senate. Former Chairman, Ose Local Government, Hon. Bola Adelegbe charged Ipinsagba to focus his attention and campaign on the people of the four local governments in the Akoko area, assuring him that 80 percent of Ose people are in his support. Aregbesola Accuses Oyetola Of Dubious Victory Pantami’s Professorship Title Not Illegal, UNILAG Lecturer Slams… Adelegbe, therefore, pleaded with him to take care of the teeming unemployed youths in the area when he’s elected to office. The Party Chairman in Ose Local Government, Chief Ladi Tenabe, a former Permanent Secretary, said: “Ipinsagba is the most qualified person to represent us at the Senate. There is nothing we are looking for in a senator that is not in him. “We have been watching you over these years. You have been very wonderful. You have been consistent in terms of service delivery to the people of this senatorial district. You are focused and reliable.” The Owo Local government party Chairman, Hon. Samuel Olusanya Balogun in his address said Pastor Ipinsagba remains the best for the position of senior in the North Senatorial District saying that he has been someone who has full knowledge of what governance means. Balogun, therefore, called for prayers for Pastor Ipinsagba to enable him to harness the abundant resources for the benefit of the people in the area.