UYO – National Political and Economic Discourse Group has advised Barrister Onofiok Luke not to be distracted by the endorsement of an aspirant by Governor Udom Emmanuel, saying that Akwa Ibom people know who they will vote for. In a release signed by its convener, Dr Jack Ekeng, and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Uyo on Wednesday, the group alleged the endorsement was programmed to make Luke lose focus. The group, however, expressed satisfaction that instead of decelerating, Luke’s issue-based popularity has continued to soar, “making him the most acceptable gubernatorial aspirant in the state at the moment. Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… Biden Orders Release Of Trump White House Logs To Panel Probing… “You cannot decree experience to exist. Of all the aspirants in the state so far, only Right Honourable Onofiok Luke can be said to be the most experienced,  having led the legislature at the highest level in the state and even fought to preserve democracy that was seriously threatened then.” “Moving to the national level, he has not played a second fiddle even though he belongs to the opposition PDP. It takes a person with deep socio-political mastery to be chairman of a powerful committee as the judiciary even as the first termer. “That’s is why the youth, elders and women all over the state route for him as the only detribalised politician with the ability to pull the state out of the current socio-economic and political quagmire and return us to the part of progress, human capital development and socio-national integration currently lacking.” While appealing to the youth to maintain their support for Luke, whom he described as one of their own, Ekeng said it was time to also try the youthful population at the highest level of managing the state affairs. “We have tried the elders and they did their best. But their best was not good enough due to the fact that most of their programmes did not resonate with the teeming youthful population of the state. POLL “We cannot subject this state again to gerontocracy when we have young but experienced professionals eagerly willing to serve. We thank God that someone like Rt. Hon. Onofiok Luke agreed to join the race. He is the only person for now that deserves our votes and we’ll do everything possible that come June 12, 2023, Luke would assume office as our next governor. We shall be happy for.” He said having listened to other aspirants, he has come to understand that Luke is the only one that really understands the needs of all sectors and segments of Akwa Ibom State. “It would be a great disservice to humanity if we as a people sell our birthright on the altar of assumed government candidate instead of displaying the independent and intellectual mindedness that Akwa Ibomites all over the world have been known for,” Ekeng said.