ABUJA  – The Minister of State for the Environment, Chief Sharon Ikeazor has announced that the recent fire incident at Ukpokiti Oil Field, involving the Floating Production Storage and Offtake of Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited (SEPCOL), has been ‘totally’ extinguished. Saghir el Mohammed, Director Press, Federal Ministry of Environment, quoted the Minister to have disclosed this in a statement. She assured that the National Oil Spill Detection Response Agency (NOSDRA), the scheduled agency under her ministry, has gone for overflight to monitor the situation of crude spill in the sea. Petroleum Retailers Explain Crusade Against Illegal Refiners GEIL Moves Against Gas Flaring, Sets Date For Commissioning Of… She noted that the overflight operation will be sustained in the weeks ahead, until whatever remnants of oil in the FPSO is evacuated and measures evolved to forestall a recurrence of such kind of incident. Ikeazor had in a statement on Friday, assured that necessary efforts are being made to ensure the fire incident at Ukpokiti oil field is contained, after a fire engulfed a floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel named ‘Trinity Spirit’ in the early hours of Wednesday. But in a recent update, Ikeazor said the fire incident at Ukpokiti Oil Field was eventually contained on the evening of Thursday, February 3, 2022. She made this known after receiving an update from the Director General of NOSDRA, saying a ‘joint investigation’ operation was conducted at the incident area on Saturday. She equally said NOSDRA had an overflight on the incident area last Friday, to ascertain from the air what the surrounding conditions were, after extinguishing the fire. POLL According to the Environment Minister, a joint investigation visit to the incident area, as well as the FPSO, was undertaken on Saturday by NOSDRA, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), the Ondo State Ministry of Environment, Representatives of Communities proximate to the Area and staff of Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited. “While the cause of the fire incident is yet to be fully determined, the environment around the FPSO is only slightly covered by sheen and emulsified oil.”