IBADAN – A member, House of Representatives representing Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/ Kajola/ Iwajowa, Hon Shina Peller has said given the controversy his bill proposing the repeal of National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), there is a need to clarify the purpose of the bill, noting that the proposed bill was misconstrued. According to him, “given the controversy that my bill has caused, the bill seeks to absorb the National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) into the Nigerian Police Force and set a transitional framework to achieve this objective,  I shall weigh in and make certain clarifications about the proposed bill. “On Tuesday, the 1st of February 2022, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (Repeal and Enactment) Bill that I sponsored was read for the first time in the House of Representatives. Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC FG, NCF Commemorate 2022 World Wetland Day “Expectedly, while some understand and align themselves with the points raised in the bill, some either unknowingly missed the points or deliberately misconstrued the content for reasons best known to them. “Contrary to what is being falsely spread by some people, the bill is not about scrapping NSCDC but merging the agency with the Nigeria Police Force to achieve better results in policing”. Peller maintained that the bill does not in any way seek to render people jobless rather the bill proposes the transfer of assets and personnel of the NSCDC to the Nigera Police. In other words, assets and personnel will be absorbed by the Police; so there won’t be a loss of jobs. It could be recalled that the NSCDC was established by statute in the year 2003 to exist and operate as an ancillary force, assisting the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in maintaining public order, engaging with civilian populations in times of emergency, and other such adjunct functions. POLL The creation of the Corps was supposed to free officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to focus on their core policing operations of protecting lives and ensuring the security of property. Since then, the nature of the NSCDC has changed. Rather than exist as, and perform the role of an ancillary force, the NSCDC now includes an armed component and performs policing functions across the country. Predictably, this overlap of functions and jurisdictions, according to the lawmaker has led to increasing conflicts between the NSCDC and the Nigerian Police. Peller maintained that Nigeria is faced with an unprecedented wave of different but overlapping security crises, therefore, the government and legislature must be aggressively innovative in considering better options for a more effective national security architecture. “This proposed bill should serve as a trigger to constructive debates and conversations that end with substantive reforms in the best interest of the nation. WCD: Over 100 Women Benefit From Rotary Free Breast Screening In… Zamfara Assembly Commences Moves To Impeach Deputy Gov Gusau “Shockingly, the leadership of the NSCDC withdrew security details attached to me, as a result of my proposed bill, although after the news was made public, NSCDC reversed itself. A situation like this calls for serious concerns. “In conclusion, fragmentation of security resources across multiple competing agencies is counterproductive, coupled with the fact that we have limited resources. “What’s the essence of having multiple security agencies with no desirable result when we can harness the resources together to make our Police Force more efficient? This is what the bill seeks to achieve.”