***University of Education Too ABUJA – The National Universities Commission NUC has approved the conversion of Lagos State Polytechnic, LASPOTECH to Lagos State University of Science and Technology. Also approved for conversion is the Adeniran Ogunsunya College of Education as well as Micheal Otedola College of Education to Lagos State University of Education. Delta Approve 1, 500 Recruitment Slots for Teachers ASUU Declares Lecture-Free Day In Ebonyi The conversion followed an official request by the Lagos State government to the NUC, to boost the admission quota of students from the state who are desirous of university education. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu who was at the NUC headquarters on Tuesday, to pick up the provisional licenses, pledged to make resources available for the smooth running of both institutions. He described education as pivotal to the growth and development of any society, hence the investment in tertiary institutions in the state. The NUC Executive Secretary, Professor Abubakar Rasheed while presenting the letter of recognition to both institutions, urged them to concentrate on science and technology-driven education as a means of bridging the gap in that sector. Rasheed said the number of universities in the country can not meet the present demand for higher education in the country. POLL According to him, Nigeria before now could only boast of 203 universities, but the two additional ones has raised the number to 205, but still not enough when compared to the over 200 million people in the country. He said despite the increasing number of private universities in the country as against state and federal universities, they could only account for 5.06 percent of students in the nation’s ivory towers, leaving the remaining 94percent in public universities. Justifying NUC’s decision to approve University of Education, Ijanikin/Epe and Lagos State University of Science and Technology, Rasheed said unlike some other states that have failed to manage their existing institutions well, Lagos has been exceptional in the running of Lagos State University (LASU) for the past 39 years. “We still find it difficult when state governments approach us and said, we want new universities. What we do at NUC is to quickly check the antecedent of the state,what they do to existing institutions in their state. Most cases what we found out is very sad…., but it was a different case when Lagos approached us. “Lagos State is the largest, the most cosmopolitan, has the largest assembly of most educated people, Lagos State has only one university in the past 39 years,” he said. UPDATED: ASUU Lagos Zone Holds Congress, Mobilizes Members,… We Will Resist Attempt By FG To Turn Intellectuals To Slaves… The NUC boss revealed that with the approval of the two new universities, letters would be forwarded to the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) for necessary action. On his part, Governor Sanwo-Olu, who expressed delight over the coming on board of the new institutions, said the University of Education was an upgrade and merging of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED), while the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) was converted to the University of Science and Technology.