ISAAC ASABOR It is factual to say that February 14 by each passing year has remained a day that is filled with consumerism. Each year on Valentine’s Day, people load up on chocolates, roses, jewelry and more to celebrate the day with their loved ones. Just as not few holidays have become consumeristic, such as Christmas when shelves are seen to be filled with Santa decor, assorted food and drinks, Valentine’s Day is filled with obligatory consumerism, meaning that individuals feel obligated to purchase something for their loved ones. Ban Of Sachet Alcoholic Drinks: NAFDAC Urged To Walk The Talk Apprehension Over Fare Increase Heightens As Lagos Unveils N800… For the sake of clarity, Valentine’s Day is celebrated popularly in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France and Australia. In the 17th century, Great Britain began to celebrate the holiday, but it was not until the 18th century that the festivities involved sharing tokens of love through notes and gifts. By 1900, printed cards became a popular way to express love on Valentine’s Day. However, looking at the celebration from Nigeria’s perspective, Valentine’s gifts are fancy, expensive and it is not always morally celebrated. The main gifts that are usually purchased on Valentine’s Day are jewelry, chocolate and red-colored materials enlivened with going for eat-outs. Against the foregoing background, it is logical to say that for many consumers across the country, February 14 is a special day to share with loved ones and friends, and for retailers, particularly those that own boutiques, and operate Restaurants, even as the day is equally a huge opportunity for them to make bumper sales as a result of high demand by consumers, who are invariably lovers, resulting to impulsive buying. POLL However, ahead of the Valentine’s Day which is invariably been celebrated today, some boutique owners and restauranteurs who expressed worry over low sales of their products, unanimously concluded in their parley with DAILY INDEPENDENT that the impact of recession on businesses would be felt throughout the celebration given their experiences of low sales ahead of the event. They blamed the low patronage ahead of the lover’s day on the widening gap in exchange rate between the Nigeria’s currency, the Naira, and some key foreign currencies coupled with the parlous state of the economy which had generally affected the prices of goods and services in the country. Speaking to DAILY INDEPENDENT during a visit to a Gift Shop at Ogba, in Ikeja, Lagos on Wednesday, Mrs. Ope Mayowa, a trader, called for quick government’s intervention to ease the current socio-economic burden, which had occasioned as a result of rising cost of goods and services in the country. Mr. Angus Azubuike, a boutique owner, said the recent challenge posed by fuel scarcity and attendant increase in prices of the product, had affected the profit margins of traders, hence the need to leverage the opportunities which the Valentine’s Day is bound to present to increase prices of his products so as to be able to break even. Speaking in pidgin, he said: “Oga, this valentine wey dey come na opportunity for me to recover all the money wey I don’t lost since last week because of this fuel wahala”. Asked how he will do it, he replied, “I go put small small money for the clothes wey I dey sell.” He nevertheless advised that high charges on import duties had also resulted in the increment of prices of goods on the market, and that no one will buy fabrics at exorbitant prices, and decide to sell them at low prices. Excitement Trails Government’s Plan To Reduce Cooking Gas Prices 2022: Consumers Pessimistic, Say Inflation May Deepen Madam Titi Okikiola, cited an example where the hampers she packaged during last Christmas season were still lying unsold on the shelves in her shop, and asked, “Don’t you know it is because of the recession that made the hampers to be lying unsold? She affirmed that the same recession that made people not to buy hampers still prevails, and that the Valentine is likely not going to be different as the recession is pervading. This, according to her, could prevent many people from celebrating the Valentine the way they used to do, and that the situation could affect sales during the lover’s day. “Since the recession is still with us, products are being increased all the time, and this will equally affect the Valentine which used to be a period of bumper sales,” she bemoaned”. Andy Ikenna, a seller of ladies’ wear, emphasised on the low demands of goods ahead of the Valentine’s Day, adding that high charges on duties and increases in the prices of fuel were the cause, and appealed to the government to consider reducing the import charges on goods to help alleviate the plight of ordinary Nigerians. DAILY INDEPENDENT noticed during the visit that most of the boutiques in the market were stocked with red-colored fabrics as well as shoes and bags; as Red means love, symbolic of the heart and typifies the Valentine’s celebration. However, the traders said the general high cost of living in the country was preventing people from buying their products, particularly ahead of the lover’s day which has started in earnest in some quarters since the month of February commenced. To this end, DAILY INDEPENDENT in a media parley with some Boutique owners and Restaurateurs in Lagos, found out that some of them have been anticipating sales spike on some items that cut across foods, clothing and drinks, and have on that note been stocking their shops with items that are traditionally in high demand during Valentine’s Day Celebration. Kelvin Oyiboka said: “lovers’ choice for eating out at restaurants, dressing themselves in red outfits for Valentine’s Day will continue to excite the consumer market by each passing year. He added that “There’s always a high demand for foods, drinks, cards and clothing among other gift items ahead of the Valentine’s day, and with increase in demand ahead of the event, and on the particularly day of the event, there is the tendency for lovers to go on spending spree for items that are traditionally used to highlight the event on February 14.” Analysed from the consumer market perspective, Valentine’s season is typically characterised with high demand for roses, chocolate, candlelight, red wine, delicious foods and other monetarily supported acts of romance. However, perhaps more traditionally especially for the single, Valentine’s day involves drinking, and getting involved in inappropriate relationship, and has led to the proliferation of less conventional Valentine’s day activities, but these have not ruled out the commercial value of the event that usually impact on the consumer market. Undoubtedly, money much more than music seems to be the soul of love for many Nigerians. With an economy that is literarily gasping for breath, the prices of luxury gifts items and leisure spots are on the high rise. The development appears to be an indication that this year’s Valentine’s Day, which is been celebrated today, may be marked on a moderate level for not just the have-not but the rich as well. For some Nigerians, who shared their plans for celebrating Valentine’s Day, they seem to agree on the central theme that love much more than the value of gifts should be the essence of the day. However, Edith Iwegbue, said “the speculation that the recession might have an effect on this year’s Valentine may not be valid as some lovers have being observed in the past to have gone out of their way to lavish their loved ones on that day; state of the economy notwithstanding”. Simply put, she disagrees with the speculation that the recession might have an effect on Valentine as she affirms that people will still go out and have fun no matter what.