LAGOS – Popular Nigerian sex/fertility therapist, Aderemi Hellen Fiyin is not one to sugarcoat words when it comes to helping couples attain sexual bliss. Little wonder she has clearly stated that the use of aphrodisiac by spouses is something not to be toyed with, as it helps to spice up their sex life. She made the statement while answering questions about Murrays Corner (also known now as MurrayKurves Secrets), her ever-expanding integrated fertility, medical spa and wellness organisation. Responding to the question, do women need sweeteners/aphrodisiacs for sex?, she said: “Sex is very important in a relationship and marriage. Many homes tend to break due to a lack of intimacy, which mostly comes from women.” “Some women tend to lose interest in sex after childbirth due to hormonal imbalance, body changes and other causes resulting in low libido or painful sex. Aphrodisiacs are very potent in solving all sexual problems and mending home. It enhances bonding and happiness between partners. All women need a taste of this happiness.” Speaking further, the Murrays Corner founder and CEO, avowed that, despite its usefulness, people tend to have a dim view of the use of aphrodisiacs, a negative mindset that is extended to those who sell such a product. “For example, starting this business at a point was tough, especially concerning aphrodisiac. Outside the country it’s a norm, but in Nigeria, people tend to see aphrodisiac vendors as prostitutes or “jazz” sellers. But as times went on, I got more confidence because my eyes were all on the goal to provide solutions to women,” she stated. According to Aderemi Hellen Fiyin, the good reviews she gets daily from satisfied customers boosts her confidence to continue selling aphrodisiac products. POLL The Sex Therapist had in the past two years grown her business with the development of Murray’s Corner Medical Spa, which has broadened the business’ operation in the beauty and wellness direction. “The business is wide and I am still learning and I will still love to go deeper into herbal solutions in future. In the meantime, I am still one of the best in the game,” Aderemi Hellen Fiyin affirmed.