Following its failure to defend and justify the expenditure of N356 million, the upper chamber of the National Assembly has asked the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to refund the money. The Senate Committee on Public Accounts chaired by Senator Matthew Urhoghide had invited NDLEA over alleged unapproved spending and failure to account for advances granted to some of its officials . The Senate Panel hinged the Investigation on the 2016 Auditor General’s report which is currently under consideration before the Senate Panel . Senate Seeks Legal Framework For National Social Security Bomb Terrorists Out Of Their Hideouts – Senate Urges FG At the resumption of the hearing, the Chairman of the Committee sustained Auditor General’s queries on alleged spending of N43 million on revocation and purchase of operational vehicles without approval, failure to refund N42 million cash advances, N12 million spent on renovation of Jigawa office without approval and purchase of N90 million operational vehicles without approval from Ministerial Tender Board. The Committee also gave the NDLEA 24 hours to justify spending of N169 million as security votes, which they fail to provide as at the time of filling this report. Efforts made by the representative of the Director General of NDLEA, Abdullahi Shittu was not acceptable before the Committee as the Chairman of the Committee, Senator Urhoghide ordered refund on the money spent without Appropriations. He said: “We will sustain the query of Auditor General’s report against your agency and the money spent illegally should be refunded.” The query reads: “A sum of N169,336,264.36 (One hundred and sixty-nine million, three hundred and thirty-six thousand, two hundred and sixty-four naira, thirty-six kobo) was spent on Security Votes in 2015. Further examination of the agency’s budget for that year, revealed that there was no appropriation for Security Vote by the National Assembly. POLL “The Chairman/Chief Executive should produce the authority for this expenditure or recover the sum of N169,336,264.36 and forward relevant details for verification . “Contract for the supply of 7 (seven) operational vehicles for a sum of N90,772,500.00 (Ninety million, seven hundred and seventy-two thousand, five hundred naira) was awarded without approval from the Ministerial Tender’s Board. “This contravened Section 16(2) of the Procurement Act of 2007 which states that ‘no fund shall be disbursed from Treasury or Federation Account or bank account of the procuring entity for any procurement falling above the set thresholds unless the cheques, or other form of request for payments is accompanied by ‘No objection Certificate’ to an award of contract duly signed by the Bureau. “The sum of N43,228,750.00 (Forty-three million, two hundred and twenty-eight thousand, seven hundred and fifty naira) was spent on renovation and purchase of 5 (five) operational vehicles in Nasarawa State Command in 2015. A scrutiny of the Appropriation Act revealed that the amounts spent were not appropriated for by the National Assembly. The Chairman/Chief Executive, having failed to produce the authority for this expenditure, should recover the sum of N43,228,750.00 and furnish relevant particulars for verification. “A sum of N42,603,261.94 (Forty-two million, six hundred and three thousand, two hundred and sixty-one naira, ninety-four kobo) granted as cash advances three years ago, to 9 (nine) officers of the Agency, were not retired, contrary to Financial Regulations. Transport Sector Bill: Senate Refuses To Override Buhari NDLEA Arrests 12,306 Suspects Over N130bn Drug- Marwa “The Agency overspent Capital expenditures in 2015 by N12,986,372.00 (Twelve million, nine hundred and eighty-six thousand, three hundred and seventy-two naira) on the renovation of Jigawa State Command.”