DAMATURU – No fewer than 2,600 members of the North East Development Youth Forum gathered at the Nurses Conference Hall, Damaturu today to endorse Abubakar Umar Bilget for candidature in representing Damaturu Central Constituency come 2023 general elections. In his address, the President of the North East Development Youth Forum, Comrade Abdullahi Ibrahim Yusuf said that they are presenting the voice of the young eligible people in the Northeast geopolitical zone “young people are equal citizens and are encouraged and supported to achieve their fullest potentials as global citizens”. “Our mission is to connect the words of professionals, to make them more productive so that they can take their community members to the promised land. Our actions is that our work is centered on what matters most to young people and less privileged youth from leaving education and finding quality job, protecting the sustainability through making young people’s voices heard in our democracies and we are making a difference.” Igbos Haven’t Committed Any Crime To Be Denied Presidency In… Political Parties Grooming Thugs Instead Of Leaders – Sen… He further stated reasons why they unanimously agreed to endorse Abubakar A. Umar alias Baana Bilget to aspire for the position of Yobe State House of Assembly member to represent Damaturu central constituency which comprises of four electoral wards namely Nayinawa, Bindigari/Pawari, Damaturu Central and Gwange respectively. He described their candidate as “Responsible, capacitated, reliable, philanthropist who is ready when voted in to address challenges of youth unemployment, alleviate poverty among us, address issues of inequality because inequality breeds humanitarian gender violence while equality before the law brings sound security within the community”. On her part, a renowned kannywood actress who is also an indigene of Damaturu revealed that ” eventhough I’m not a politician but I honoured your invitation to witness this gathering simply because I’m an advocate of youth development, I’m much concerned about youth participation in politics and leadership because I have a strong confidence and belief that the Youths can deliver better than the aged ones in the mordern day”. She used the forum to appeal to the Youths to stay clear of drug abuse as according to her is capable of ruining their future “especially the women who have also engaged in drug abuse”. Also speaking, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Mai Mala Buni on Social Media and also Chairman of Social Media Team in Gulani Local Government Area of Yobe State, Shehu Fukuma drum their support for Bilget to take over Damaturu central constituency in 2023 elections. POLL In his vote of thanks, the endorsed Youth candidate, Abubakar Umar alias Baana Bilget represented appreciated the unanimous youth support urging him to aspire for the position in 2023. “I have accepted your clarion call, I will join the race on the platform of APC when the time comes, I am ready to give you proper representation” President of the Students Union Government (SUG), Yobe State University Damaturu, Usman Garba Wali expressed confidence in the endorsed candidate and appealed to people of Damaturu to welcome the decision of the Youths for better represention. Those that also drum their support include 11 different associations in Damaturu with membership of about 5,000 people led by Lawal Ali, Chairman Labourers and Artisans Association said that they want to try him “because we are satisfied with what he has been doing to the poor and disabled people in Damaturu”.