LAGOS – Dr. Richard Idowu, a House of Representatives aspirant in Osun State on Monday, called on leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to as a matter of urgency, work towards ensuring unity within the state chapter of the party. Idowu, who is founder and President of RAI Global Trust Foundation, while reacting to rumours making rounds that he is a member of The Osun Progressives (TOP), a faction of the APC in Osun State, denied ever belonging to any caucus within the APC. He, however, called on the leaders of the party, especially leaders of the two factions in the state to come to a roundtable and embrace dialogue with a view to ending the crises bedeviling the party in the state. APC Chieftain Wants Election Dates Permanent In Nation’s… Nwafor-Orizu Emerges PDP Chairman In Anambra The philanthropist, who said he is neutral and doesn’t belong to any faction, explained that every initiative and empowerment programme he had embarked up was meant to promote the image of the APC and foster a peaceful co-existence He explained that the situation the party finds itself today, is nothing to brag about and cannot be the joy of any well meaning party member including himself. “And at a time like this, all we need is decorum and not spreading unfounded rumours. “I wish to remind rumour peddlers that I started my humanitarian programmes about seven years ago, a time the party still enjoyed unity of purpose and my programmes have been self sponsored without holding any political office. “My programmes’ beneficiaries have been solely through party structures and at no point in time been selected with sentiment or through recommendation from any leader “There has never been a time when beneficiaries will be asked to produce any means of identification to show which caucus they belong. POLL “It is worthy to note that the Adeoriokin Movement has been canvassing APC members trying to defect to other party to stay with APC through our numerous empowerment programmes and activities geared at fostering unity and peaceful coexistence like the just concluded Adeoriokin artisans football competition in Ejigbo LGA and also 8-Aside football competition in Ede north and south LGA. “The final of the football competition hosted both in Ejigbo and Ede was well attended by leaders from our party, the All Progressives Congress. The three Local Government chairmen from Ejigbo LGA were in attendance and virtually all the party’s executives in Ede North and South were in attendance. “My team comprises of party members who for reasons best known to them might belong to any of the caucuses in our party and none of them can say at any point in time I ask my team of any caucus affiliation, or select any member of my team for special treatment or assignments based on the caucus he or she belong to, we are one and one big APC family . “I honour invitations to any of our party programmes without selecting which is Apolo’s or Paul’s. My program has always been to promote the party image and not a caucus within the party. There is no program of mine where any of the caucuses in the party is promoted and if anyone is having a genuine claim to counter me, he/she should bring it to the forefront . “In lieu of the above, I wish to state it categorically that the rumours making the round should be disregarded and shunned by party faithfuls. It is the handiwork of idle minds and detractors, which is an effort in futility. Soludo Champions Campaign For ‘Made In Anambra… 2022: APC Picks Afuye For Deputy Governorship Slot “The activities of my detractors can never deter me, I would rather intensify my effort to make life worth living for the people of Ede/Egbedore/Ejigbo Federal Constituency,” he added.