ABUJA – Natives of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have commended President Muhammad Buhari, FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), for the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in the just concluded Area Council Elections in the nation’s capital city. Danjuma Tanko Dara gave this commendation during a press briefing on Friday on the success of the elections which recorded free, fair and credible from the INEC and Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). He said the FCT minister and INEC have truly demonstrated the role of an unbiased umpire in the conduct of elections in the territory while adding that the minister has proven that he is a leader that listens to the voices of his people when they make suggestions and give him advice. VSF Launches Food Distribution To Victims Of Terrorism In Yobe 2023: Group Gives Jite Brown 4-Week Ultimatum To Declare For… He described the FCT minister as a man with the fear of God, saying that it was the reason why he did not tamper with the people’s votes, even when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was leading in AMAC, Bwari and Kuje area councils. Dara stressed that the minister has proven that he is a leader that can be trusted any day to lead in Nigeria in any political office, that if it were to be a state where the leader is selfish, the people’s votes would not have counted. He said, “May God continue to bless and protect the FCT minister because he is a very courageous man that has the fear of God. He has proven it by ensuring that the people who elected their leaders are not disappointed and that their results were not rigged. “Before the election, in a press briefing, we called on the minister of FCT to speak to the political gladiators that were mandated to monitor the elections for the APC, that they should not interfere in the process. The minister listened and the whole process was free, fair and credible. The people’s votes counted. We are grateful to the minister,” he said. He also used the opportunity to call on the elected chairmen, especially Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) to work in the interest of the people that trust them and voted them to lead them for the next three years, that they should be wise and not allow their government to be hijacked by sycophants and praise singers who will not tell them the truth. POLL “It is also wise for the ruling party to use the last opportunity to amend their ways, as Nigerians are not pleased with the governance and stop relying on rigging or imposition of leaders that are not choice of the people. God will make Nigeria great. “We are using this opportunity to call on our incoming chairmen, especially in AMAC where our choice has been elected, that he should be wise and not allow people who do not have the interest of the people at heart to take over his government. He should put the people first in everything he does and the sky will be his stepping stone to greater height politically and otherwise,” he said.