ISEGHE AJAYI It is the desire of every individual to be wealthy and reach financial independence which surely guarantees peace of mind especially during retirement. Building wealth is a good aspiration but requires financial literacy and self-will to attain your goals. How To Plan Ahead For Your Retirement The Need To Engage In Passive Income Achieving financial freedom through wealth creation is not a child’s play as only few fulfill their dreams because of the task involved in reaching desired financial set goals. That is why it is important to understand the knitty- gritty of wealth creation if you really crave to join the affluence in the society. Failure to do this will land you in to financial misery and bondage. Hence the need to build the foundation just as someone that wants to build a house. Mind you, having a good building structure has to do with the foundation and does not connote any fear because a good job was done from the onset; the same goes for wealth creation. Building wealth has nothing to do with sentiment but having a focus and vision especially if you want to make headway in your financial life. If you are emotional, there is no way you will be able to take financial risk when it comes to investing your money. One of the bases of wealth creation is the ability to be able to make sacrifices at the start even if they are not convenient. POLL With these, you will be able to manage your income whether there is a raise or not. Besides, you also need to be patient, considerate and pushy if you truly want your investment to grow. The under listed basic principles will assist you in building the foundation for wealth creation and reaching your set goals: Invest Early One vital way to accumulate or build wealth is early investment; it is essential you begin investing as soon as you starting earning money. The amount of wealth you can amass depends on when you start investing. Mind you, starting early allows your money to multiply and increase progressively overtime, even if you do not have enough money to invest. Therefore, do not forget to start investing as early as possible. Why Financial Literacy Is Crucial How To Advance Your Financial Life This Year Besides, it is a big blunder to assume that your earnings are not enough to invest at the moment as it would certainly catch up with you later, leading to financial regrets. Prudent Lifestyle If you really want to experience wealth creation, you need to be prudent in your spending and one way of doing that is to spend less than what you earn regardless of the economic situation. Ensure you try as much as possible to have a grip on your finances. Financial Advisor Get a good financial expert that will educate you on the rudiments of wealth creation so as to avoid financial or investment errors. This financial expert will educate and furnish you with the necessary information you need to know especially in the area of your interest or investment. Also engaging appropriate financial advisor will help you in building wealth. Put Aside Certain Portion Of Your Earnings The best way to invest and save money is to automate it as this is a simple way to create wealth. In most organisations, contributions emanate from automatic payroll deductions. Having your money automatically moved from your bank account into a savings or investment account every particular month enables you to stay or remain financially disciplined. When you set up steady, automatic deposits, you put money aside before you see it or get tempted to spend it. It is an obstacle you set up that permits you to outwit yourself so as to manage your money wisely. Putting your financial future on autopilot is actually the best technique to make things easier for your life and slowly get rich. Set Achievable Goals It is very critical to invest your money especially if you have long-term financial set goals and in doing that, you must stay focus. Do you know that investments are different from savings as they are expected to grow your money that would be spent in the future? Investing is also best for small goals you want to attain within a specific period of time. Pursue Your Dream, Remain Focused Several rich people have this notion that having passion is key to building wealth and attaining financial success. So, instead of chasing money; they pursue their financial dreams vigorously. And in the process of doing what they derive pleasure or passion; they do not waiver as they believe that their dreams would certainly produce financial success. Besides, it is expedient to pursue that dream or passion you love if you want to experience financial independence because if you are just doing it to make money, you may lose your heart and may never get financial satisfaction. Be aware of Your Risk Tolerance You must have it at the back of your mind that very investment has its own risk and as such be understood. In plain terms, risk is the possibility of your assets losing value. From the above assets, debt instruments have very low risk, especially instruments backed by the government which have zero risks. All other assets have different levels of risks. Stocks are risky; but when held over a long period of time can lead to a reduction in risk. Accept Your Losses Accept small losses positively as a fact of investing life and move on to make more money in the future. At first about 50 percent of your investments may go wrong such that they will certainly decline in value. Your hopes and expectations from your investments may be dashed but you can still learn how to invest successfully if you reduce your losses on the downside so that you can make the most of your profits on the upside. Do not admit To Defeat If investing for the first time was not profitable, forget it and move ahead by not accepting defeat. If you have knowledge about stock business and decide to invest in it, then go ahead but if at the long run, it does not work out, sell the stock and go on to something else.