LAGOS – The Customs Area Controller(CAC),Tincan Island Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) Compt. Adekunle  Oloyede on has solicited the understanding of stakeholders on the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) Valuation policy of the Service. Comptroller Oloyede who was newly transferred to the command, it was gathered used the inaugural meeting to address the VIN issues following the protests embarked by stakeholders since Monday, over the VIN Valuation Policy. As at Wednesday afternoon,  agents and freight forwarders were still protesting what they termed obnoxious hike in duty of imported vehicles. UK Bans Russian Airlines From Entering British Airspace, Russia… Joe Biden To Nominate Ketanji Brown Jackson For US Supreme Court The Customs Area Controller reiterated the core functions of the Service, pointing out the role of NCS align with the core functions namely: Collection/generation of revenue, suppression of smuggling and border security, facilitation of trade and enforcement of Fiscal and Monetary Policies of the Federal Government. Speaking extensively on the VIN Valuation Policy, which has generated tension leading to protests, the Comptroller pointed out that the Service conducted series of Webinar on the subject before it was finally deployed and wondered why the issue has generated furors at a time the Service had thought the process was seamless. He called on the stakeholders to always seek engagement with appropriate authority and ensure continuous capacity building for their members especially at this period that the Service is advancing to full automation. The Customs Area Controller charged them to de-emphasize the issue of strike actions for whatever reason as he pointed out that protests have never solved any problem anywhere in the world. Speaking further, he said that all trade facilitation tools are available in the Command. POLL He  urged stakeholders to take advantage of the tools to resolve any issue that may arise in the Clearance process. He reminded them about the Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC), the Help Desk, among others as avenues where grievances can be channeled for expeditious resolution. The Stakeholders had ventilated their challenges beyond the VIN Valuation to other issues hindering their operations. The Customs Area Controller promised to look into the issues very dispassionately to ensure that an enabling environment is created for compliant traders. He charged stakeholders to brace up for the challenges ahead particularly with the anticipated full automation of “our processes and procedures and reassured that full automation will lead to ease of doing businesses and called stakeholders to embrace and become ICT savvy to enable them cope with the realities. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… NFVCB Engages Stakeholder On Film Contents He also advised they continue to engage and avoid situation where agents could resort to self help and create room for miscreants to hijack the process and wreck havoc in the system. He further assured them of his preparedness to run an open and transparent regime to ensure that all opinions are accommodated in the Trade Value Chain.