Charity Ikondu, Chief Executive Officer of Charity Enterprises, producer of processed and packaged groundnuts, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the challenges of getting groundnut and how high cost of the product has taken away the profit, and why the government must do something urgently to address the challenge among other issues. Excerpts: What is the attraction in processing and marketing groundnut? I am a graduate of Business Administration. I have worked in some private organizations before I ventured into the groundnut business, although it is not my first business. Educating Citizens Will Eradicate Crime, Improve Economy Of Any… You Need Product Knowledge To Grow Sales – Umoh I always wanted to own my own business so I didn’t work for too long with private companies before I tried my hands on personal businesses. It is something that I inherited from my mother. She was an astute business women and no business failed under her control. I took that from her but the unfortunate thing is that businesses in Nigeria are no longer thriving the way it used to be because the government of today are not interested in providing the enabling environment for local entrepreneurs and even foreign investors are scared of coming into the country to invest. I have done a lot of business before, as I said earlier. I went into the groundnut business only last year. I basically process, package and export it to Dubai. I have a friend who is the middle person. I market it in Dubai through her connection. It is actually in Dubai that I do the bulk of the business. POLL The business was growing and I was enjoying what I was doing because I sourced everything here in Nigeria. It is very interesting when you don’t have to import in this era of scarce foreign exchange. The only issue that we notice is that inflation is forcing business owners to close shops. How do you mean when you say that inflation is pushing a lot of business owners to close shops? Can you believe it if I tell you that the cost of a bag of ground has gone up by over 100 percent? This is something that we [produce in the country. We farm groundnuts in the country but right now in less than two months the cost of a bag of groundnuts has doubled. We don’t know how to survive. I don’t know if I will say that we are surviving by the grace of God. I export this product outside the country and other people also export to this location from their own countries, so tell me how I am going to be competitive? We are not only contending with the issue of inflation, there is also a lack of electricity supply to process the groundnut. We use generators to power the machines that we use in processing the product. Govt Should Reduce Import Duty On Health Related Products – Ukor Success In Business Requires Good Operational Knowledge –… All these put together has made it very discouraging to do business in Nigeria. There is no motivation at all. What you usually notice among business owners in most cases in this country, is what new business to change into because one mustn’t stay idle. The truth is that it is not easy anywhere. Business people need to be encouraged to remain in business. What do you think should be the solution to some of the challenges that you have just mentioned? The solution lies with the government. Why should the groundnut that is being farmed in Nigeria be too expensive to buy? Some people traced it to insecurity; they say that farmers are being killed in their numbers every day by bandits. We have been hearing about these farmer/herders clashes for too many years now, why is it difficult for the government to find an end to this menace. Why should the farmers be allowed to be killed? Do they want us to die of starvation because I see this as a very dangerous trend? The other time I wanted to work with an agent to supply the groundnut directly to me from the North instead of buying from Lagos, he tried to make the arrangement but later told me that the farmers he wanted to work with no longer go to the farm to harvest because of insecurity. I had to continue buying from my source in Lagos. Do you still meet the demand of your customers in Dubai? What do you expect that will happen when the price of your product goes up? You will definitely lose some of your businesses that is exactly what is happening to us now. If I increase my price buy say 50 percent I will no longer be competitive so other competitors will begin to take some of your market. You must also note that when your raw material increases by 100 percent like in the case of the groundnut, you cannot increase your price by the same proportion otherwise you will go out of business. What that does is that it erodes your profit drastically. You are losing your profit as well as losing customers. This is why I say that inflation is forcing Nigerian entrepreneurs to close shops. The government must do something urgently to save the situation. The other time we saw the rice pyramid that they erected in Abuja, even though the price of rice remain unchanged. We have not seen any effect of that project on the price of rice. I will still advise the government to start thinking of having a groundnut pyramid that was what we used to know in the country then when they had one in states like Kano. They should go back to that, and ensure that the farms are safe for farmers to go back before the situation gets out of hand. The unfortunate thing that we also discovered is that the government has never been concerned about the plight of business owners. It is shocking to notice that the government cannot provide employment and it is not ready to assist those who can provide employment for the teeming unemployed youths. I had five people working for me but because of the challenges I had to lay off two of my staff, I am managing with only three staff at the moment and hoping that when business improves we will engage more hands. When we talk about insecurity we should also know that hardship, unemployment can lead to crime. I am not holding brief for criminals though, but I think that the government can do more by providing the enabling environment for entrepreneurs to thrive so that they can create jobs for the citizens You said that some business owners are considering changing into another line of business. Are you in that category? I have not given a thought to that any way but one thing that you will know is that doing business in Nigeria is not easy. It has not been like this before, things are really getting too tough for those of us in business. I don’t know what new business you may want to go into, because doing business in this country is a herculean task, I am still hoping that the price of groundnut will come down soon.