Former governor of Ekiti state, Chief Segun Oni has hinted that he was forming a mega alliance with no fewer than four aggrieved Governorship aspirants to actualize his political aspiration. Oni who is the runner up in the just-concluded  People’s Democratic Party(PDP) Governorship primaries in Ekiti also announced his defection from the party to the Social  Democratic Party(SDP) Speaking on a Radio programme monitored by Independent in Ado-Ekiti, Oni disclosed that four aggrieved governorship aspirants in the All Progressives Congress (APC), members of a factional group in Ekiti APC, the South West Agenda for Asiwaju 2023 (SWAGA) members of the repositioning group in the PDP and others are would join him to form a coalition. JUST IN: Segun Oni Joins SPC Ekiti 2022: Nobody Can Intimidate Us Out Of APC -Aggrieved… ” I  have chosen to advance my ambition in the Social Democratic Party(SDP) because we are looking at the future not the present. The party has been around for years and won elections in this country, it is a well-known party, that is the reason I chose SDP to contest the June 18, 2022 governorship election in Ekiti state. We have seen the potential in SDP because we believe it is easier to sell as a third force for Nigerians. The process to make me candidate is ongoing and will soon be completed. Engineer Oni said the national leadership of the  SDP had aggrieved in principle to allow him to fly the ticket of the party for the June q8 poll in Ekiti adding that his running mate would soon be concluded with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Let me say that for those who are in APC, four aggrieved aspirants are working with us. In PDP, the people called repositioning group, majority of them are working with us. Also, we are working with SWAGA members, SWAGA is a strong force in APC with a strong membership base. ” It is going to be a grand collation that will definitely benefit the people of Ekiti. I believe the goodwill of repositioning group,  SWAGA and Segun Oni is almost enough to win the election in Ekiti. ” We must come to the reality of how a party is properly managed, if it is not properly managed, it won’t attract good people, that is the fact. I believe whatever is right is right. I have been around for some time, my antecedents is there for us to see, I am not looking for what to eat but service to the people, that is how I see politics. POLL ” It is the people that will challenge the parties, the people are superior than the APC, PDP. It is what Ekiti people want not the political parties, we are listening to what the people are saying in the streets.I worked for the people with everything I had between 2007 and 2010 when I was governor and the citizens can testify to my achievements.” He expressed optimism that his achievements when he was governor coupled with the alleged impunity and injustice in the two dominant parties would sway the votes in his favour. According to him, ” I want to say without any forms of contradictions, that we politicians are coming together for this project coupled with the opinions of people in the streets. We are looking at a familiar terrain and a party with potential and also we are getting support from people that are well known in Ekiti’s political terrain. Oni who advised the people of the state to reject vote-buying and other forms of inducement ahead of the poll stated that everything possible would be done to discourage voters from trading their future on the altar of peanuts. ” We are ready for Ekiti election. We will campaign against vote-buying because it is illegal. We are not going to fold our arms and allow it to work here. This condemnable act is against the people and our people must learn from what happened in the past. We must support those who can help our society to develop. Will the people still be eating what they got on election day for four years? It is bad and we will campaign against it because the people are not better now in the last four years in the state, ” he said. Ekiti 2022: MOB Most Experienced, Most Politically Connected… Ekiti 2022: Ward Congress Places Moral Burden On PDP –… He said,  ” The PDP primary election was manipulated and devoid of known guidelines in any democracy in the world. What is bad is bad, and we must not be afraid to say the truth at all times. The guidelines say it is a secret ballot but the ballot is being shown to the former governor, Ayodele Fayose by the delegates. ” Let me say, If a party cannot manage their processes, it is the party that should be blamed, not the people reacting to injustice. We are only reacting to the obvious injustice.”