LAGOS – Okwesilieze Nwodo, former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former governor of Enugu State has said that the time has come for other regions of the country to support the South-East region to produce the next president, stressing that Nigeria owes the region so much. The former governor in an interview took time to enumerate the qualities that a candidate for the office of the president should have, stressing that the region has too many candidates who are qualified to be President. “We need a president who can comprehend the present condition of Nigeria, and has a clear vision of how to solve the situation in Nigeria. He or she should be a candidate that has a clear economic road map to remove us from the poorest country in the world back to the economy that was growing fastest in Africa back, to the seventh strongest economy growing in the world. 2023: Gbajabiamila Rallies Constituents’ Support For Gagdi Nigeria Ignores Funding Technology But Investing In Corruption… “The candidate must have a solution to unemployment, have integrity and not one that will fall on the knife of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC),” he said. Other qualities that he mentioned include the capacity to communicate, sound education to be able to comprehend the different problems facing Nigeria, etcetera. He maintained that people with such qualities abound in South-East, pointing out that from antecedents people like, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Sam Ohuabunwa, Nnia Nwodo, Pius Anyim, Ogbonnia Onu, among others are qualified to lead Nigeria. “We have people who have demonstrated transparency in governance, in business and have credible ideas on how to take us out of the dungeon. Why can’t we turn to the South-East? What is the crime of the South-East?  “What have we done that Nigerians cannot forgive?  I don’t understand what is going on but as I said earlier, Nigerians have a conscience and we want you to prick that conscience. We will wake it up as we have done in the past to heal the wounds of June 12,” he said.Nwodo wondered why the region has always been relegated to the background in the scheme of things. “Today with what is going on in the North-East, the North-East Economic Development Commission was set up. When the South-South protested that it was the hen that laid the golden egg, and wanted resource control, President Yar Adua healed the wound. He created the Niger Delta Ministry; he created a commission that is targeted at fast forwarding the development in the region. He created opportunities for their youths. “Why is it that when it comes to the South-East the story changes, the conscience of this country takes flight? At the end of the war, we said that there was no victor, no vanquished, reconstruction, rehabilitation etcetera. For many years it was anathema for any person from the South-East to dream to lead any of the arms of the military or the police. I think that Nigeria owes the South-East a lot,’ he said.