LAGOS – The National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA) has kicked against the allegation from an American embassy staff who labelled its members as touts who should not be consulted in visa protocols. This is as the association has threatened to take up by the issue with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and urged the Federal Government to wade into the matter, which it described as insensitivity. The association also demanded a retraction of the statement from the embassy staff, noting that no foreign embassy in America would go public in the United States to describe American businesses as frauds and asking the public not to patronise them. Group Petitions APC Leadership, Accuses Akpabio Of Anti-Party… MURIC Berated Over Call To Rule Out Osinbajo, Southern… Mrs. Susan Akporiaye, the President of NANTA, in a statement to journalists on Tuesday, insisted that the association would take up the issue with the NCAA, just as she cautioned against unwarranted comments against Nigerian businesses by anyone, especially foreigners. She lamented that such comments could bear negatively on the fabric of private sector economic impact and effort, adding that the said American embassy official neither reached out to NANTA nor the regulatory body of the travel trade in Nigeria to officially complain or report the supposed infraction before going public against it. The association’s leadership described the comment by the American Embassy staff as very sad; encouraging the demarketing and stigmatisation of registered members of NANTA. Akporiaye further described the comment as capable of encouraging demarketing and stigmatisation of registered members of NANTA. The NANTA boss emphasised that its members as travel agents, consultants and facilitators, insisting that they do not trade visas, but could guide and advice intending visa applicants on how to complete their forms and also offer them some technical requirements needed to apply for such. POLL She said: “We are not in any way protecting any operator who runs foul of the law, but we say, even at that, there are channels to fish out and fix such deviants and for the Embassy consulate officer to wave off Nigerian travel trade professionals without going through established channels is totally unacceptable.”