LAGOS – The Plateau Maintenance of Justice Group (TPMoJG) has queried the presence of Mr. Nyesom Wike, the Rivers State governor, in a Jos High Court on Wednesday in the state. The group in a statement by Ezekiel Zet, its National Chairman, alleged that the presence of Wike in the court was to intimidate the judiciary with his status as an oil rich governor and to use his wealth and resources to tinker the cause of justice in the trial of the former governor of the state. Recall that the Jonah Jang, theformer Plateau State Governor of Plateau State is standing trial on allegations of misappropriation of public funds and diversion of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) money amounting to N6.3 billion. Corps Member Trains 100 Bauchi Students On Menstrual Hygiene Business, Political, Society, Thought Leaders Meet To Build… The group said that as the case opened in court on Wednesday, the Rivers State Governor was seen in court ostensibly in solidarity with Jang who reportedly slumped in court the previous day. Zet insisted that Wike’s presence was unacceptable to his group and the people of Plateau, threatening that the TPMoJG would send a petition to the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), to investigate the matter. He insisted that the people of the state could not be intimidated with money and charged the judiciary to stand its ground and dispense justice without fear of favour. “It is an insult on the collective intelligence of the people of Plateau for a sitting governor to leave his state and choose to identify not with the teeming populace of another state but with those accused of plundering the resources of the state.” Zet said it was obvious from Wike’s presence in court that he placed partisan and selfish interests over and above the common good. POLL He added: “Otherwise, how do you explain a situation where the Rivers State governor with all the resources at his disposal failed to identify with the people and Government of Plateau during times of calamities but left his busy schedule as governor to identify with a wrong cause. “Is he saying that Jang his friend and party man is more important that the entire people and government of Plateau and as far as he is concerned that Plateau people can perish as long as it is well with Jang?” He attributed the action of the Rivers State Governor to bad leadership and urges the people of Rivers to call their governor to order before his lack of empathy for the masses and partisan interest affected him.