AWKA – High Chief Sir Chuka Nnabuife, an Ubuluisiuzo-born orator and politician of very high reckonings has reiterated the fact that nobody in Ihiala local government area should spoil the chances of Ubuluisiuzo or Osumoghu to produce the next representative for Ihiala federal constituency in 2023. Nnabuife who spoke with our correspondent at National Light Newspapers’ headquarters Awka, said judging from the micro-zoning formula in the area, it is the turn of Ubuluisiuzo or Osumoghu in Ebonesie zone to represent Ihiala federal constituency; that political heavyweights and godfathers should help foster arrangements duly established in writing. He said Ubuluisiuzo and Osumoghu are two towns in Ihiala local government that have been politically marginalised and alienated from the scheme of things such that nobody from the towns have smelt elected offices at the local, state and federal levels respectively. Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… Akala’s Burial: Osinbajo, Makinde Lead Other Prominent… Nnabuife said it would be very unfair and counterproductive should anyone truncate the chances of Ubuluisiuzo or Osumoghu in the forthcoming election season as no one could underestimate the power of a conspicuous silence. According to him, “It is Ebonesie’s turn to go to House of Reps. It would be unfair if another section of Ihiala, maybe from Uli-Amorka, Ihiala town or Okija steps into that; it would be spoiling the milieu. And in Ebonesie zone going by the micro-sharing formula, it is the turn of Ubuluisiuzo and Osumoghu to go to House of Reps. If they spoil the arrangement that we all had and even published because we have evidences of it. So if they spoil it, the only thing I will say is no problem but we are all going to see how spoiling it will affect us. It will be very unfair to deny Ubuluisiuzo and Osumoghu their chance to put up for the current House of Reps in 2023. It will be grossly unfair and the consequences are dire on our collectivity, our social cohesion and where we are going. ” POLL Nnabuife also observed that Ihiala has two state constituencies and one federal constituency but he has not seen a time when a meeting was convoked to discuss the development of Ihiala local government area hence he believes Ihiala is lacking in political front, social front and infrastructural front. Again, Nnabuife was of the opinion that Ihiala is conspicuously placed in the middle of Igboland and so blessed with human and material resources but the bone of contention according to him is getting men of quality and credibility to take  Ihiala out of her current status quo through effective legislations.