KADUNA – The Nigerian Ambassador to the Benin Republic and former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai has advocated for continuous training among the Armed Forces of Nigeria as a panacea for excellence in strategic leadership The former Chief of Staff said when he held sway as Army chief they had made the Nigerian army a modern one. The ambassador made the assertion at the National Defence College Nigeria while presenting a lecture on Strategic Leadership to the participants of Course 30/2021 of the college. Army Redoubles Efforts In Logistics Support Insecurity: Ex-Perm Sec Drums Support For Nigerian Army During the lecture, he enumerated the qualities of a good strategic leader which includes the need for a weight control policy to ensure that officers and soldiers are physically, medically and mentally fit to enable them to perform their jobs optimally. Ambassador Buratai also called for the exposition of officers and soldiers to training courses both at home and abroad, inspiring a shared vision to inculcate core values; ethics and standards as part of efforts to improve the performance of the Nigerian Army. The lecture which was specifically for the participants of National Defence College Nigeria Course 30/202, also called for the need to improve on innovation as a key to achieving the vision and goals set to be achieved in every task. According to him, “You must develop the capacity of your officers and men. It would help if you were versatile and adaptive. Every leader aims to get the job done, through exemplary leadership,” POLL “We have made Nigeria Army a Modern Army, we have made Nigeria Army to be professional by introducing many Infrastructures like the Nigeria Army Warfare Research. He regretted that during his time they were not able to initiate the production of many war instruments, saying, ”But we thank God that now it has been introduced. In his response, the commandant, Rear. Admiral Bashir said that General Buratai has unique and practical leadership worthy of emulation. The commandant said that because of these qualities, as such General Buratai had been selected as one of the strategic leaders to be studied in the college. Members of his entourage include Major General Adeniyi Oyebade(Rtd) the former GOC 1Mechanized Division and Former Commandant, Nigerian Defence Academy, Major Gen Iliya Abba (Rtd), Brig-Gen Sani Usman Kukasheka (Rtd) and Ibrahim Dahiru Danfulani.