AKURE – Magistrate Court sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Monday sentenced to four and a half years in jail a mother of four for brutalizing a 12-year-old boy. Mrs. Opeyemi Omoyemi was arraigned for allegedly brutalizing her kid house help, Joel Sunday, lacerating his body severally with razor blade for stealing a piece of meat from the pot of soup on February 6, 2022 at her Idimango Adewale, Ondo Road, Akure. She had pleaded guilty to four of the 5-count charge preferred against her. Just In: Assailants Kill Housewife, Pound Her Toddlers In Kano Attempted Murder: Police Arraign Fani-Kayode’s Estranged… Delivering her verdict, Mrs O.A Edwin slammed the respondent with three and half years imprisonment with hard labour on count charge one, which is on grievous harm and one year imprisonment on count five. The Prosecution Counsel, Emmanuel Tanimowo, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, during trial applied for withdrawal of count four charge which the Magistrate granted. The attorney to the respondent, Folusho Kayode, pleaded with the court to be lenient with the respondent on grounds that she was a first time offender. He also told the court that she’s a mother of four children and had been responsible for the upkeep of the house help. The attorney said: “The court should be lenient in passing sentence on the defendant. The prayer for leniency is that the defendant has been the one solely responsible for the wellbeing and education of the 12 year old Sunday. She has been doing this dutifully for the past four years since the death of her husband. POLL “The defendant has kids and they have been crying since the incident happened as they could not see their mother.” “The defendant is a first offender and has never been arrested for any inhuman behavior. The court should graciously pass the sentence.” In her ruling, the Magistrate said: “I know that the defendant is a first time offender but the facts of the offences are not only an abuse on the victim but an offence against public policy. “The sentence must therefore want to deter others and also ensure that justice is done to the victim.” The case was, however, adjourned to April 13, 2022 for trial on count three of the charge which is on trafficking in persons, a charge to which the respondent had pleaded not guilty. CSOs Call For Funding Plan For NDLEA To Curb Rising Cases of… Oyo Police Arrest Suspects Involved In PMS, ‘Federal… Catherine Ogunjebi, who was in court for International Federation of Women Lawyers, FIDA, Ondo State chapter, told newsmen after the court sitting that justice had been served by the court. She said: “We are grateful that justice has been served to the victim and for the society. We are also grateful for the time that the defendant did not waste. She pleaded guilty and it was faster for us to have arrived at this conclusion. “We are equally impressed because it is not a long sentence. She will be reunited with her children in due course as we know she also has children who are now in the custody of Women Affairs at the Children Home for proper care “It is wrong for her to have had two children, 12 years and 10 years in her custody for the purpose of domestic help. This is against the Child Right Law of Ondo State and Child Right Act 2003 of Nigeria.”