LAGOS  – The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), has proposed a revenue generation of N188 billion in the 2022 operating year, indicating 50.4 per cent increase when compared to the previous year. This is as the agency lamented that outstanding debt by its clients especially Arik Air was affecting its performance and called on the National Assembly to intervene in order to save the agency from collapse. FAAN also threatened to go tough on other clients like concessionaires, private terminal operators and advertisements companies who reneged on their earlier agreements, saying that it would not hesitate to terminate their contracts with the agency. Ministry, First Bank Seal N50bn Funding Pact On Agriculture In… Grant Thornton Nigeria Lauds ICAN Growth Initiatives Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN stated these over the weekend when the joint National Assembly Committee on Aviation visited the agency and other government parastatals for oversight functions. According to Yadudu, FAAN was prepared to increase its revenue generation to N188 billion in 2022 as against the N125.4 billion approved for the year 2021, which indicates an increase of 50.4 per cent. He said that the projection was arrived at with the hope that the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic would have been over, thereby leading to an increase in passenger traffic, as well as boost in the non-aeronautical revenue base of the authority as already highlighted in the 2021 budget performance. On outstanding debts, Yadudu specifically mentioned Arik Air as a major culprit, maintaining that since the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) took over the running of the airline in February 2017, it had not paid the inherited debt. He said: “The authority is still faced with some challenges on debt recovery, most especially on debts owed by Arik Air, which constitutes a significant portion of the authority’s debt portfolio. POLL “We commend the effort of the Committees on Aviation with respect to intervention so far in the recovery of Arik debts inherited by AMCON. However, we need further assistance to bring the issue to a logical conclusion as the huge debts are still outstanding.” Besides, the FAAN boss said that as at December 2021, the agency had contributed N16.7 billion to the Federal Account as its contribution to the Consolidated Revenue Funds in spite of the effect of the pandemic during the period, but clarified that FAAN did not have operating surplus. He regretted that this impacted negatively on its ability to adequately meet up with the agency’s obligations. He, therefore, canvassed for the suspension of its contribution to the Federal Account, stressing that this was in compliance with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) Doc 9562 on Airport Generation.