A tourism practitioner, Honourable Apata Samson Nunayon, over the weekend in Badagry, emerged as the Chairman of the Association of Tourism Practitioners Of Nigeria (ATPN), Lagos State chapter.Hon. Nunayon Apata is the ex-supervisor for Environment and Tourism in Badagry Local Government Council and the Chief Executive Officer/ Managing Director, Eko Destinations Limited was appointed during the 2022 South West ATPN summit as the pioneer chairman of the chapter that was inaugurated at the event. At the event attended by top-notch tourism practitioners across the country, the guest of honour and Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Pharm. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf lauded the activities and commitment of the association in the drive to make Nigeria and Lagos State, especially tourists’ destinations. Speaking further at the summit with the theme: “The Place of Domestic Tourism in Post-Covid Economy”, Pharm. Akinbile-Yusuf congratulated Nunayon Apata on his emergence as the ATPN chairman in the state. Lagos Introduces Resident Card, Targets Six Million Registration… Lagos4Lagos: PDP Needs 8 Years Of Planning Plus Hard Work To Win… She promised to throw her weight behind the ATPN and the chairman to ensure his tenure is successful, adding that the ATPN in Lagos State would set the standard for others to copy. The new ATPN Lagos Chairman, Mr. Apata in his acceptance speech, expressed appreciation to the leadership of the association in Southwest, the national executive and other stakeholders for their support, adding tourism is the “green oil” that can replace all the present revenue challenges attributed to Nigeria’s crude oil”. “I cannot thank enough the leadership of Association of Tourism Practitioners of Nigeria at Southwest Nigeria level, and the entire executives at the national level. Thank you ATPN Southwest Nigeria. “Giving me the mantle of ATPN Lagos leadership is an assignment that calls for the continuous support of every stakeholder in the tourism and hospitality industry in entire Nigeria, as we all know that Lagos State remains a micro-type of Nigeria as a country. Whatever happens in Lagos is a reflection of what happens in Nigeria. He added, “While we prepare to embark on this impactful journey to complement the tireless efforts of the Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu led-administration through the Ministry of Tourism under the care of our beautiful Moremi, Pharmacist Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, I like to inform everyone that tourism industry in Nigeria is the “green oil” that can replace all the present revenue challenges attributed to Nigeria’s crude oil. POLL “Direct spending of foreign currencies in the many value chains in tourism and hospitality industry of destinations like Dubai, Jerusalem, The Gambia and so forth, has shown us what Nigeria could generate if her domestic destinations of attractions and histories are adequately managed with supportive policies from government, and strategically marketed by private sectors,” he added.