ABUJA – Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, has said the security situation in Nigeria would improve if politicians desist from tainting it with political sentiments. According to Adesina, his principal was not averse to criticism but those playing the blame game should at least be constructive by offering solutions. The presidential spokesman said this at a press briefing in Abuja, organised by Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy (VATLAD) to proffer solutions to problems confronting the country. Adesina said most of the assessments of the performance of Buhari in the past seven years were unfair and not reflective of the modest gains achieved. He said, “If only more Nigerians will see things from the mutual perspectives, I think Nigeria will be better than colouring and tainting things unnecessarily. “For instance the security challenges we have in our country, the billions spent on its maintenance would have been saved and channelled to other productive ventures, yet some people play politics with it, let there be less politics in our decisions and let there be more of Nigeria. “Yes, the security situation is there, nobody can deny that, it is the duty of the media to ensure there is balance, the security agencies are working hard to tame the situation. “It is our duty; forces of disunity or dismemberment are not the ones we should yield to. It is just a few people speaking for the generality of the country, we should see more of how to unite this country than separate it”. Commenting on the recent fuel crisis, the Media Aide said, “For over the six years that President Buhari has been President and Minister of Petroleum Resources, the fuel queues that were a recurring decimal mostly during festivities in Nigeria vanished. “Unfortunately, though, most of the criticisms against the president over the fuel shortage have been coloured and tainted by political considerations”. While presenting his discourse notes, the Convener of Vanguard for Transparent Leadership and Democracy, Comrade Emmanuel Igbini, said Nigeria’s problems cannot be blamed on one man, stating that the three arms of government share the blame for any failure of governance. Igbini expressed regrets that the country is battling with the problem of fuel scarcity at a time it is still celebrating the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, stating that the country has, unfortunately, not been focused on addressing the problems in the petroleum industry, decades after the Abacha regime. He noted that since the advent of democracy, Nigerians have continued to make a mockery of it by making the judiciary and legislature rubber stamps of the executive, adding that the principle of separation of powers has been abandoned.