A former governorship aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in Ekiti State, Kayode Adaramodu has called for an amicable resolution to the controversies trailing the siting of the Law School Campus approved for Ekiti. The PDP chieftain said a peaceful resolution was required to douse the raging tension between two peaceful communities laying to claim to the hosting of the institution of legal studies. Ilawe-Ekiti and Ifaki-Ekiti communities have been laying claim to the hosting of the new campus approved by the Senate since the news broke out last week. While the former community had offered land and building facilities for the smooth take-off of the school, the latter had erected a huge signpost at the proposed site. Kolawole Will Return PDP To Power In Ekiti -, Taiwo-Adebakin 2022: Kolawole’s Victory Raises PDP’s Hope Of… In his statement entitled ” Useful Clarifications regarding the siting of the Law School in Ekiti” Adaramodu disclosed he got an informed clue from one of the principal actors in the matter and the initiator of the bill, Senator Smart Adeyemi. According to him, Senator Adeyemi, being a close friend of another senator from Ekiti, Bunmi Adetumbi, was carried along when he (Adeyemi ) was initiating the bill. Adaramodu, a policy expert disclosed that, It was also correct that  Senator Adetumbi made a case for his hometown of Ifaki-Ekiti hometown to be the host community for the South West slot. He quoted Senator Adeyemi as saying that ”  he acted in good faith by recommending Ifaki-Ekiti when he first introduced the bill in the Senate. ” The Senator confirmed that just as expected, his colleagues began to consider the appropriateness of the locations he recommended as it affected their respective zones and states. That it was at that point that the duo of Senators Opeyemi Bamidele and Biodun Olujimi jointly made a strong case for the South Senatorial District of Ekiti in view of its obvious marginalisation in terms of the distribution of federal institutions in Ekiti State. POLL “That based on the long-standing convention of the Senate that makes it binding once a matter enjoys the support of 2 senators out of the 3 senators from a State, that the location for the Law School in Ekiti was then agreed to be sited in Ilawe-Ekiti based on superior arguments. ” That Ilawe-Ekiti was well represented at the public hearing with the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, providing compelling arguments for the choice before the Senate Committees,” Adaramodu  said ” Senator Smart Adeyemi confirmed that a clerical error occurred during the final passage of the Bill which he blamed for the current unnecessary controversy. He however affirmed that the error has no implications on the status of the Bill and the agreed locations and it is not capable of changing the Bill that has already been passed with Ilawe-Ekiti as the authentic community to host the Law School.” Speaking further Adaramodu said “I have always known Senator Smart Adeyemi as a forthright man who always seeks ways of promoting justice, equity and fairness. He cherishes his friendship with Senator Olu Adetumbi. I also believe that Senator Adetumbi meant well in his attempt to win a laudable project for his hometown. It is what all senators do. “On this Law School matter, a few of them have actually succeeded in lobbying the siting of the schools in their respective communities. I think what makes Ekiti case different is the issue of age-long marginalization of the South Senatorial District. It is clearly not anything personal between and among our senators, neither is it a battle of supremacy between the two “innocent communities”. Ilawe-Ekiti is lucky to have been selected, it could have been any other town in Ekiti South. Impostor Conducted PDP Ward Congress In Ekiti – Group… Tension In Ekiti As PDP Governorship Aspirants Reject Ward… ” What endears Senator Smart Adeyemi to me the more is his recommendation of Kabba in his home state for the North Central slot. He could have suggested Iyara, his hometown. ” I am very proud of our Ekiti senators. They are active, knowledgeable and well respected by their colleagues. More importantly, they are all friends. Bringing the Law School to Ekiti is a collective victory for our three distinguished senators, and of course for all of us. It could have gone to any of the other States in South West. Therefore, I appeal to them to please find a win-win resolution of this matter and let the case be rested without further delay. ‘ All things said and done, I am of the strong belief that funding of education, including the Law School, needs new thinking and improved legislative interventions.” Adaramodu said.