Ikeja Electric Plc has stated that it will increase electricity supply to customers across its network this year. Mrs Folake Soetan, Chief Executive Officer, Ikeja Electric, who gave the promise in chats with our correspondent ,outlined several projects for 2022 across its six business Units – Shomolu, Oshodi, Abule-Egba, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Akowonjo. She explained that projects were a manifestation of the company’s commitment to consistently improve service delivery to customers within its franchise. Dangote’s Automobile Company Kickstarts Vehicle Assembly In… Sterling Bank, Founder Institute Fellowship Award Holds This… She said: “We are very excited to inaugurate this ultra-modern facility designed to optimise operations in Shomolu Business Unit, in line with our mantra – customer first technology now. “The new office is equipped with state-of-the-art tools to enable efficient service delivery and improve the overall customer experience. “We are confident that Ikeja Electric, through this new office, will continue to deliver top-notch services to our teeming customers in the network. “Our effort to continuously improve customer experience and deliver optimal value is the motivating force behind all we do at Ikeja Electric. And that is what has helped to position us as industry leader.” Soetan said Ikeja Electric had resolved to further deliver efficient services through online and offline touchpoints, by attending to queries promptly and using innovative solutions that offered convenience and unique experience. POLL According to her, the company would continue to redefine its operations with innovative solution while exploring better ways to work. She added: “The satisfaction of customers remains the priority, and this restates our unwavering commitment to service excellence through continuing investment in our people and technology” She, however, expressed appreciation to stakeholders, regulators, partners, community leaders, security agencies and loyal customers for their support.