***Says Powerful Establishments Within S/West Hell-Bent On Destroying The Organization IBADAN – Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, said the  Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) will go down in history as most victimized socio-cultural  organisation in Nigeria, saying the group has, since its inception in 1994, paid its dues in ensuring the progress of Nigeria’s democracy. Ado-Odo Set To Host Dignitaries For Final Burial Rites Of Olofin… Akeredolu Commends Olujigba On Community Development Speaking on Tuesday at the 2022 edition of the special “Thanksgiving service” organised by the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), in Lagos, Iba Adams added that the Yoruba socio-cultural organisation had weathered the storm with various challenges from both within and outside the organization. He also pointed fingers at some powerful establishments within the south west that were hell-bent on destroying the organization. “The reason for the special Thanksgiving service holding to express our appreciation to God because the journey had been tourtous,yet rewarding, because we have moved from the unknown to the known. “Though,many of us lost their lives in the cause of the struggle,we never drifted,but continue to grow from strength to strength”, Adams added also that Nigeria has the potentials, both human and material resources to be one of the great countries in the world,but the leaders drifted through continued neglect of tradition. POLL He posited further that OPC has distinguished itself as the only socio-cultural organization that celebrates God with the various programmes,such as Eledumare festival, Oodua festival,and many other festivals that are designed to promote the cultural identity of Yoruba race. The Yoruba generalissimo, also said continued neglect of tradition has remained the bane of Nigeria’s progress, stating that the country can only make meaningful progress  by identifying with God,and also promote the core values that are inherent in Yoruba culture and traditions. Osi Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Chief Gani Balogun,in his remarks, reiterated the need to foster unity and peace within the ranks of the organization, insisting that OPC has  come a long way as a leading organization in the south west. “I am sure history will be kind to the OPC as an organization that stood by the Yoruba race, fought and still fighting the cause to ensure that the Yoruba stand above other races in Nigeria” Extolling the leadership traits of the Aareonakakafo of Yoruba land,one of the members of Aareonakakanfo in Council, Mogaji Gboyega Adejumo, in his remarks,said: Ooni Tasks Ekiti Monarchs On Unity At Oba Adepoju’s First… Aje Festival 2022: Ooni Plans Big As Iyalaje Oodua Hosts… “The greatest virtue of all leaders is the courage to withstand various challenges”,adding that Iba Gani Adams had, through his long years of experience, had a fair share of what it means to be the leader of the most dynamic organization in the history of Yoruba race. Other guests present at the event include,all members of the National Executive Council,(NEC)National Coordinating Council (NCC),both Muslims and christian clerics and all members of all departments.