Abuja – Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, Kaduna State governor, has said the menace of bandits and kidnappers would have been resolved once and for all by the military if it was not for fear of being dragged before the International Court of Justice (ICC). The governor made the remark while speaking at the weekly ministerial press briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Thursday. According to him, while he had campaigned for the bandits to be classified as terrorists, there were some pushbacks on the ground that they do not have a recognised leadership structure. Guinness MD Calls For Removal Of Women’s Inhibition At Work… BREAKING: ISWAP Attacks Borno Town, Several Killed El-Rufai said he was delighted over the court ruling, which recently declared the bandits as terrorists and therefore made them “a fair game.” According to him, dealing with the criminality permanently would require simultaneous ground and air attacks in all the states hosting the criminals to prevent them from escaping. He said the locations of the terrorists have never been a mystery, insisting that they must be wiped out at once rather than the present piecemeal approach if the problem must be solved. He also said the Fulanis, who are involved in the criminality, will never abandon the business on their own because they make far more money from it than they would have made from the legitimate cattle business. El-Rufai affirmed that kidnapping and terrorism had since become business but with the added element of collaborating with Boko Haram even as he said the effort to tackle the menace had been uncoordinated. He said some state governors that thought negotiating with the criminals would end the problem later realised that it was a mistake. He revealed that North- West state governments began a process of cooperation and co-financing the military operation against cattle rustling. He regretted that the operation was not sustained as some of them backed out after some success was recorded only for kidnapping to take centre stage. POLL According to the El-Rufai, in the reported cases, while 937 were killed and 1,972 kidnapped by bandits in the state in 2020, a total of 1,192 were killed and 3,348 kidnapped in 2021, suggesting a deterioration in the situation. He advocated the recruitment of more hands and procurement of sufficient equipment, adding that the lack of capacity of Nigeria’s security agencies in terms of adequate personnel and equipment was also creating a hindrance to ending insecurity. “I am persuaded that the insurgency in the North- West is far more serious than Boko Haram both in terms of the numbers of the people affected. I have shown you the numbers in Kaduna. I can assure you that the numbers in Zamfara, and Katsina are up to three times this if they are keeping taps. The numbers in Sokoto, Niger, and Kebbi will be about this. “We are talking of tens of thousands of people getting killed, getting kidnapped. Enugu Bans Keke, Okada, Tipper-Truck Operations Two LGAs Daily Independent Journalist, Others Win 2021 MAN Reporter Of… It is far more serious than Boko Haram. The only thing is that these guys don’t occupy territory, they are in the forest and ungoverned spaces. So, they do not attract the kind of single minded attention that Boko Haram does. And because Boko Haram’s ideology is religious, intentionally religious, it elicits more passion but really, this is a far more serious problem. “Because, this is a situation largely in which people of about the same ethnicity, same religion are killing each other, stealing each other’s property. Creating an industry out of criminality. It’s very, very serious and it requires single minded attention. “ Yes, we know where these bandits are, we have the maps. But somebody has to go in and kill them. I can’t do that. If that somebody doesn’t have enough men, doesn’t have enough fire power, doesn’t have technology, no one is going to commit suicide. This is why under this administration, Nigeria Governors’ Forum collaborated with the Federal Government to take money from the excess crude account to buy super Tucano jets and other armaments to strengthen our defence system,” he stated.