Shuaibu Idris, former Deputy Managing Director, Dangote Flour Mills is new Chairman, Board of Governors IoD Centre for Corporate Governance. In a recent conversation with SIAKA MOMOH in Lagos, Idris spoke about his agenda for IoD Centre for Corporate Governance and other issues. As the new helmsman in charge of the Centre, what new things do you hope to bring into the practice of Corporate Governance in Nigeria? While previous Boards have made significance contributions towards the advancement of Corporate Governance practices in Nigeria. The current Board of Governors under my leadership will work towards strengthening the existing system and also focus in key specific areas, such as; Closer partnership and collaboration with the founding partners of the Centre in the execution of its major activities. The Centre will be upscaling its services and increasing internal capacity to man new areas and expand the scope and frequency of conferences, seminars and workshops as well as research offerings and other advisory services that we render to clients. Misgovernance of Lagos Trade Fair Complex Flights Are Delayed, Cancelled Due To Safety Reasons – Air Peace… New service offerings such as the Management of Whistle Blowing Mechanism and Anti-Money Laundering training would be introduced. In addition, The Centre will take its prime position in moving Nigeria economy forward through the acculturation of Corporate Governance practices, principles and values in key Government Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs) as well as key sectoral groups in private organisations. Constant engagements through courtesy visits and the introduction of Annual National Corporate Governance Submit will be part of the tools for the achievement of these objective. What is the Centre doing to better the business climate in Nigeria? The Centre is upscaling its capacity to increase its service offerings aimed at improving and promoting good Corporate Governance principles, standards and practices in Nigeria through advocacy, research, high quality trainings and Corporate Governance consulting mandates. The Centre will continue to be at the forefront in the advocacy for the implementation of good governance principles by private and public organisations, thereby contributing to, and advancing best and leading practices in Nigeria. Additionally, and specifically, the Centre is collaborating with the Centre for International Private Enterprise, (CIPE) Washington, USA, to conduct Ethics 1st Trainings among other compliance activities. Ethics 1st is a Database of Sustainable, Low-Risk Small and Growing Businesses & Suppliers in Africa with Enhanced Compliance Culture. The platform offers a demand driven solution to market opportunities and challenges, which Nigeria businesses can take advantage of and launch into the global business competitiveness space. As an ethical and compliance readiness venture, funding and other business growth interventions becomes easy to attract. POLL It is believed that a lot of corrupt and underhand practices are being perpetrated by corporate organisations in the country. What is your institute’s plan to tackle this problem? Indeed, corruption has eaten extremely deep in to the fabric of our society. The question you asked is an excellent one as there is need to bring out the issue of corruption from all our facets of endeavours and not just the politicians and or civil servants. The organised private sector also has its share of corrupt practices perpetrated by a few misguided and disgruntled people. Issues such as low-quality products, weight and measurement issues, health, safety and environment issues, unfair, unjust and immoral labour practices, etc are amongst the many vices perpetrated by companies. Stealing, theft and other acts of misappropriation or malfeasance are common in Corporate Nigeria. IoDCCG believes that with quality leadership in an organisation coupled with astute Board that is replete with experienced technocrats, culture of accountability, transparency and sustainability would be established, nurtured and sustained in the private sector thereby appropriately and adequately managing the issues through a robust Corporate Governance practice. If and where men and women of honour and integrity are appointed to serve on the Board of a company, establishment of rule of law and strict adherence to regulations, codes and morals become the norm. Herein lies the wisdom of what we do and what we preach to all segments of the society. Its our firm belief that with such culture in place, the challenges manipulations of the system, tax evasion and avoidance, substandard goods, inappropriate measurement etc, would be reduced, minimised and possibly eliminated from our system and or society over time. What essentially does the IoD Corporate Governance Centre do? How Best To Implement Nigeria’s New Agricultural Policy – Chuka… Top 20 Emerging Filmmakers Shortlisted For Netflix &… IoD Centre for Corporate Governance (IoDCCG) is a collaborative project of three partners namely: Institute of Directors Nigeria (IoDN), the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), the regulatory authority for the Nigerian Capital Markets and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), the sole agency of government responsible for registration of companies in Nigeria. IoD Centre for Corporate Governance (IoDCCG) is committed to improving and promoting good corporate governance principles, standards and practices in Nigeria through advocacy, research, high quality trainings and Corporate Governance consulting. The Centre is at the forefront of advocating for the application of good governance principles by private and public organisations, thereby contributing to, and advancing best and leading practices in Nigeria. IoDCCG is an Affiliate Member of the African Corporate Governance Network (ACGN) and is in collaboration with Centre for International Private Enterprise, (CIPE) Washington, USA. Essentially, the Centre provides amongst other things: high quality corporate governance research and publications, corporate governance training workshops, seminars and conferences as well as advocacy and public enlightenment on corporate governance, and anti-corruption and ethical compliance. Moreover, it also handles corporate governance support services to public and private sector organisations, including design and development of corporate governance framework, board induction, board and committees charters and policies as well as board and corporate governance evaluations, collaborations and alliances for promotion and acculturation of good corporate governance, support on the institutionalization of global leading practices in corporate governance and support to organisations in designing anti-corruption and ethics compliance systems as well as free membership of ethics. What are the benefits of being a member of the IoD Nigeria? IoD Nigeria Members benefit from a wide range of services offered by IoD globally, including but not limited to the following: Creation of unparalleled network amongst business leaders, upgrading the conceptual and professional skills of directors, representing business to government, capacity development through conferences and workshops, meeting point of both foreign and local investors, business information service and special discount at premium hotels and lounges all over the country and beyond to mention but a few. What are the requisite qualifications for an individual to become a director? The major requisite qualifications for an individual to become a Director as provided in the relevant statues are namely; a person must not be an insolvent, bankrupt or fraudulent persons – CAMA 2020, S. 279; must not be under 18 years old; and must be a persons of sound mind; must not be 70 years old and above in the case of a Plc and person with appropriate skills and diverse knowledge for discharge of duties and responsibilities are very essential. What’s your view about Corporate Governance in Nigeria? Corporate governance has become a burning issue all over the world. It became most pronounced in the United States especially after the collapse of two corporate giants- Enron from the energy/power sector and WorldCom from the communication sector in 2001 and 2002 respectively. In addition, one of the world’s top five accounting firms –Arthur Andersen and Co, collapsed under the corporate scandal generated in Enron saga. The first major effort to address this issue in Nigeria was in 2003 after the United States had enacted their Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, with the setting up of the Atedo Peterside Committee by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This Committee could not do much as the implementation of the provisions of its Code were made voluntary and not accompanied by any sanctions. We later had several Codes like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Code 2006) of Corporate Governance, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Code of Corporate Governance (2006), National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) Code of Corporate Governance to mention but a few. The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) of Nigeria introduced a unified code – National Code of Corporate Governance (NCCG) in October 2016. This Code was suspended almost immediately after it was issued due to unending controversies arising from opposition to some of the provisions of the Code. Although the Codes have most of the elements and basic principles of good Corporate Governance, there exist gaps between implementation, compliance and sanctions as widely reported.