The Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) has stated that it is working to create an export credit guarantee insurance and political risk for banks and exporters. This is as the association is expanding insurance business in the maritime sector through the introduction of Container Insurance and NEXIM Bank Export Insurance. Ganiyu Musa, NIA Chairman, told the media that discussion is currently ongoing between the Association, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Nigerian Shippers Council, Project IT Vendor-BrandOne and all other stakeholders in the maritime value chain including Shippers/ Importer, Clearing Agents, Track Owners, Guild of Marine Surveyors, PRAN and Tracking Companies on the provision of cover for containers. “This will be a risk management substitute for container deposits being made by the importer to the shipping companies thereby eliminating capital flight from the country.” said Musa. Identify Needs Of Customers, Develop Solutions To Deliver… Insurance Penetration: NAICOM, FSD Africa Launch Accelerator… The Association with the help of a team of actuaries is presently discussing with NEXIM Bank, MNK Re Limited (Broker at LLOYD’S), PRAN, and the Guild of Marine Surveyors with a view to developing the cover for Export Credit Guarantee Insurance and Political Risks for the banks and exporters. NIA is also in consultations and collaboration with relevant agencies towards enforcement and validation of the insurances made mandatory by law. “The Association is working with Lagos State government in the enforcement and validation of genuine compulsory third Party insurance made mandatory by Law through Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) device of Vehicle Inspectorate Service (VIS) through Nigerian Insurance Industry Database (NIID) Verification Platform. “The Association is in discussion with Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) with a view to using the Nigerian Insurance Industry Database (NIID) Verification Platform for enforcement, verification, and validation of genuine compulsory Buildings Under Construction Insurances made mandatory by Law through Insurance Act 2003 (SECTION 64), and Lagos State Urban and Regional Planning and Development (Amendment) Law 2019 (Lagos State Urban and Regional Planning and Development Law, CAP U2 Lagos State Building Control Agency Regulations, 2019). “The Association is collaborating with Lagos Safety Commission (LSC), Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) and Courteville on the Implementation, enforcement and validation of genuine compulsory Occupiers Liability Insurance made mandatory by law for all public buildings through Nigerian Insurance Industry Database (NIID) Verification Platform.” he said. POLL He said the exercise will be launched on 28 April 2022 while Enforcement will commence in May 2022, adding that they are building the capacity of LSC members to enhance compliance in line with the emerging regulations.