***As Former LG Auditors-General Delta State Celebrates With Deltans ASABA – As the entire World, Nigerians, Deltans today mark the Valentine’s day, which is celebrated annually in February 14 as this year 2022 Celebration falls on Monday, foremost Delta 2023 Governorship aspirant under the platform of People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Olorogun Abel Oghenevo Esievo has sent his special greetings to the good people of Delta State. Olorogun Abel Oghenevo Esievo in a press statement made available to newsmen today being February 14, 2022 in Asaba, Delta State capital, stated that Love is God’s Commandment. Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… Olorogun Esievo noted that, Albert Estein, a renowned scientist and inventor was right when he opined that,” You don’t blame gravity for falling in love”. The Delta 2023 Guber aspirant then urges Deltans to always show practical demostration of love to all. He then commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for his administration’s stronger Delta agenda that has promoted peace, unity and security in the state. Olorogun Abel Oghenevo Esievo also used the opportunity to extend his Valentine Day wishes to his family members, Delta State Governor, Sen. Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa, the leadership of People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Delta State Chapter, while also thanking Deltans and all his teaming supporters for their show of love towards his Gubernatorial ambition. Esievo, whose vision for Deltans us to promote massive Industrialization with multiplier effect on the state economy, establishment and vitalization of industries, employment opportunities and Consolidation of Governor Okowa’s stronger Delta agenda amongst eighteen other agenda, if given Guber ticket of PDP in Delta come this year 2022 to win the governorship seat in 2023 The Guber aspirant while sending his cards, messages, gifts to express his love for Deltans in today’s press release sounds very Biblical and poetic in the use of semantics and didactics as his message reads in parts: ” Love is not merely an important concept. It is God’s Command. In the New Testament, Our Lord Jesus Christ tells us that love sums up the entire law of God”. “The Scripture says let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. And whoever does not love does not know God. Love is patient, kind, not selfish, does not boast or dishonours others. Love is not just looking at each other . It is looking in the same direction. God has made us unique. Let us continue to show good examples to other states in Nigeria. We are hospitable, United people, one family and people of destiny”.