Dr. Muda Yusuf, Chief Executive Officer of the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how the economy will continue to present huge opportunities for investors across all sectors this year despite the downside risks as well as the mounting Nigeria’s debt profile and other economic issues that have negative bearings on the economy. Excerpts: During the last quarter of last year, specifically in December, you made a forecast on the economy, and explained that economic players will grapple with a number of headwinds in the economy, explaining that these have macroeconomic, policy, regulatory, structural and security dimensions. Does the forecast suggest that there won’t be business opportunities this year? There are opportunities lying in the economy. Despite the downside risks, the economy will continue to present huge opportunities for investors across all sectors. This is on account of the resourcefulness of the Nigerian people, especially the entrepreneurs. Other inherent strengths of the Nigerian economy include the market size, the population, and the demographic characteristics. Private Sector Participation In Agribusiness Will Open Local… Structural Engineer Must Know All Rudiments Of Design – … The economy will continue to draw its resilience from the activities and creativity of the SMEs and the informal sector of the economy. The reality is that the policy, structural and regulatory weaknesses will persist in 2022. But investors have a responsibility to construct their business and corporate strategies to manage the inherent risks. The CPPE has expressed its reservation over the recent introduction of Electronic Evaluator (E-Evaluator) and Electronic Invoicing (E-Invoicing) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), purportedly to curb foreign exchange malpractices. Sir, what informed the position of CPPE on the introduction of the Electronic evaluator and Electronic Invoicing? It would be recalled that only last October, that the Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO), Dr.(Mrs.) Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala expressed worry over the high trade cost in Nigeria, which she said was an equivalent of 306% tariff, and which is above the African average. She stated this while addressing the Mid-term Ministerial Performance review of the federal government. Without doubt, her assertion summarises the harrowing experience of Nigerian investors in the international trade process. There are issues of overlapping regulation, excessive documentation, weak application of technology, physical examination of cargo, extortion, inadequate cargo handling equipment, stifling bureaucracy, difficult transportation logistics, challenges of access to the ports and weak dispute resolution system. We should therefore be seeking to alleviate the pains of investors in the economy, not exacerbate it. I am saying this because the E invoice and E evaluator policy will only worsen an already bad international trade transactions process. The policy will increase transaction cost, entrench red tape, increase uncertainty, escalate business disruption, weaken investors’ confidence and heighten corruption risk. The truth is that there is a strong correlation between red tape and corruption. POLL The increasing incursion of the CBN into the trade policy space is an aberration in our economic management system and a serious cause for concern to the business community. Issues of import valuation and classification are statutory functions of the Nigeria Customs Service, with the Finance Ministry as the supervising organ. The decision of the CBN to now undertake valuation and product price benchmarking of imports and exports is a duplication of the statutory responsibility of the Nigeria Customs Service. It will create an additional regulatory compliance burden and costs for the business community. We, therefore, submit that the E evaluator and E invoicing initiatives be rescinded by the CBN. There is no compelling justification for their introduction in the first place. The CBN could collaborate with the Nigeria Customs to address any gaps in the valuation processes, rather set up a parallel institutional framework. The CPPE commends the prompt intervention of the House of Representatives on the matter. The CPPE appreciates the concern of the CBN regarding malpractices in foreign exchange transactions. But the truth is that over eighty percent of these misconducts are outcomes of the current distortions created by the current foreign exchange policy regime, especially the administrative fixing of the exchange rate. The Igbo Apprenticeship Scheme Has Helped In Reducing… If Elected Rivers Gov, I Will Invest In Human Capacity… A parallel market premium of about 40% offers an incredible incentive for roundtripping, brokerage activities and all manner of abuses in the forex market. It is thus advisable to address the causes, rather than the symptoms of the problem. A market driven exchange rate will reduce, and possibly eliminate, these malpractices. Such a pricing framework will also reduce the distractions that the CBN has to grapple with on foreign exchange market challenges. You recently applauded the appointment of Doyin Salami as Chief Economic Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, and at the same time set an agenda for him. Can you throw insight to the agenda you set for him? Before throwing insight to the agenda that have been set for him by CPPE under my leadership, let me say Dr. Salami is bringing to this position a pedigree of intellectualism and robust knowledge to bear on the economy, and thereby engender sound economic principles, macroeconomic stability, investment growth and the welfare of the citizens. Though coming rather late in the life of the administration, it is a fitting appointment nonetheless. Without doubt, his appointment unarguably signals the aspiration of President Buhari to reset the economy and correct some glaring distortions that have been undermining investors’ confidence over the last couple of years. It is imperative to refocus economic management strategy for growth, efficiency, productivity, sustainability and inclusion. However, the impact of the appointment would be felt only to the extent that his advice and that of the economic advisory council are adopted and implemented to shape the course of monetary, fiscal and regulatory policies as well drive vital reforms. So, coming to the agenda, we put forward a 10 points agenda for him, with the forex crises at the top of the list. The Ten point agenda cut across the need to institute a market based foreign exchange policy framework to correct current distortions bedeviling the foreign exchange market. This would ensure the normalisation of the foreign exchange market and unlock capital inflows into the economy. We also propose sustainable mix of policies to stem the intense inflationary pressures in the economy. Also as part of the agenda is for him to ensure the effective coordination between the fiscal and monetary policies as well as ensure synergy between key economic and investment ministries and agencies to ensure policy and regulatory coherence. Added to the foregoing is for him to infuse a general equilibrium mindset in the policy making processes to ensure a broaden comprehension of the impact of economic policies. We also in the agenda urged him to work towards the promotion of the reduction of fiscal deficit monetisation because of the profound inflationary outcomes as well as promote the philosophy of a level playing field for all investors in the economy. Also as part of the agenda, is the fixing of the port congestion crisis, cargo clearing constraints and traffic gridlocks along the Lagos ports corridor and foster a regime of trade facilitation culture among the agencies at our ports. We also urge him in the agenda to encourage a review of the Cash Reserve Requirement for better financial intermediation in the banking system. What are your thoughts on Nigeria’s debt profile? The growing national debt is a cause for concern as the debt profile grew from N12.6 trillion in 2015 to N33.1 trillion in March 2021, an increase of 162%. Although about 15% of these were debts owed by the state governments. The capacity to service the current stock of debt raises serious sustainability concerns. The opportunity cost of high debt service commitment for the economy and citizens is very high. There is also the exchange rate risk inherent in the exposure to mounting foreign debt which we need to worry about. As the currency depreciates, the burden of servicing foreign debt would intensify. This is a major problem with increasing the stock of foreign debt. All of these underscores the imperative of appropriate policy choices to attract equity domestic and foreign private sector capital for economic and social infrastructure financing. It is necessary to review the spending structure of government and the cost of governance. The ballooning recurrent expenditure, in the face of declining revenue is a cause for concern. Could you please, teii us your position on the recent Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s RT 200 initiative? The CBN should expand the scope of its new the foreign exchange supply strategies and incentives to cover other sources of foreign exchange inflows into the economy. The CPPE commends the new focus of the CBN on supply side strategy. The reality is that supply side policies are even more critical and impactful than demand management interventions in the foreign exchange market. Over the last couple of years, the CBN has been fixated on managing the demand side of the foreign exchange market and the outcomes have been suboptimal. The CPPE would like to draw the attention of the Bankers Committee and the CBN to the following critical success factors for the RT 200 initiative; Structural issues are very vital for driving the growth and competitiveness of non-oil exports. Structural variables are not within the purview of the CBN or the Bankers Committee. The fiscal authorities have much bigger roles to play in fixing the structural constraints which have been impeding non-oil exports productivity and competitiveness for decades. Therefore, collaboration with fiscal authorities is a critical success factor for the realisation of the RT 200 outcomes. It is impossible to clap with one hand. Complementarity between the fiscal and monetary authorities is therefore imperative for the success of this scheme, The current pricing regime in the Importers and Exporters [I & E] window of the foreign exchange market is at variance with the objectives of the RT 200. It will be a major impediment to the achievement of the Race To $200 billion Export Proceeds Vision. Exporters are currently not encouraged to remit export proceeds at the current official rate of N416/$. It is a pricing regime that inherently penalizes exporters and it is a major demotivating factor to investment in the non oil export sector.