MAKURDI – The Nigeria Midstream and Mainstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMMPRA) in Benue state has vowed to sanction erring gas (filling) stations in the zone who engaged in sharp practices during this season of petroleum scarcity. The Operations Controller, in charge of Benue, Nasarawa, Kogi, Taraba and parts of Plateau State, Gabriel Adagba disclosed this while speaking with Daily Independent in Makurdi on Monday. He however explained that it would not invoke the sanctions on the outlets at the moment, as it may have an adverse effect on the distribution of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, which is aimed at ending the scarcity that was occasioned by the release of an off spec (off specification) product which created the supply gap. Oil Spillage: Release Mobil, NNPC’s N82bn Judgement Debt… Fuel Scarcity, Soaring Price An Insult To Nigeria – Expert He said, “We won’t shut down outlets now because it may worsen the situation, but we have identified numerous filling stations for sharp practices and will deal with such at the end of the situation.” Adagba stated that, the supply of PMS to the state has increased in the last one week, even as he expressed confidence, that the situation would soon return to normal by this weekend. He further argued that any gap, such as the one that was created by the off spec product that was released into the market, takes sometime to bridge. He said, “It is not a distribution problem but a supply problem, which came about as a result of the importation of an off spec product which needed to be recalled. That recall gave rise to the current situation. “I assure you that there is strong hope. As at last week, the supply we were getting to Benue and neighbouring states including Taraba, Nasarawa, Kogi, and part of Plateau was a far cry from the usual. But as at today (Monday), we are begining to pick up. We may not see the effect yet but very soon, the scarcity would ease out.” POLL Although, the situation still persists in the state, black marketers are having a field day as the situations lasts. But, Adagba, who also balmed motorists for the continued shortage of PMS in the state, said the queues would have long disappeared if motorists were not complicit in the matter. According to him, “We discovered that most of them don’t get their supplies from the fuel stations but from motorists and motorcyclists who take the pain to queue, to buy fuel and then go to a corner and discharge same to black marketers.” He commended personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in helping to tackle road side black marketers.