Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has again expressed his preparedness to bring smiles back to the faces of the people of Imo by rendering selfless service to a state he described as having been long-deprived. Governor Uzodimma, who stated this during a recent inspection of projects by the Imo State government by journalists, said the people of Imo have for long experienced bad governance and would stop at nothing to ensure that that narrative is changed for good. Uzodimma, who was speaking through Declan Emelumba, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, assured traders who lost their shops in the demolished Eke-Ukwu Main Market on Douglas Road, Owerri, that priority will be given to them during the allocation of stalls. Group Wants FG, EFCC To Stop Uzodimma From Taking More Loans Imo Workers To Get ’13th Month’ Salary Bonus – Uzodimma “For instance, if a shop would go for N2 million or N3 million, they may be asked to pay less as a way to compensate them for the loss they suffered.” He said that the project, which was over 40 per cent completed, would be rounded up and inaugurated by December 2022. The commissioner said that the market, located at the heart of Owerri metropolis, was pulled down by former Governor Rochas Okorocha’s administration. Emelumba, who was accompanied by Simon Ibegbulem, the Commissioner for Commerce, disclosed that there are at least 200 Owerri natives, who lost their shops in the old market, adding that such people and other original shop owners would be given price concessions in the new modern that would have 2,925 lock-up stalls and equipped with modern facilities including a bank, police post, and fire service, among others, when completed. Emelumba explained that the governor decided to rebuild the facility because it remained the only Owerri ancestral market. POLL He said that the project was being executed through a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. Emelumba said “Uzodinma harkened to the appeal of Owerri elders and undertook the rebuilding of the market which is now 40 percent completed. And the good news is that upon its full completion,the original traders will be given concessions in the allocation.” On the newly inaugurated cluster for fashion designers recently commissioned by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo in Owerri, the commissioner said the industrial sewing machines and other equipment were aimed at driving the Imo State Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises scheme. “The facility is equipped with more than 500 modern machines for sewing and designing and solar panels for a 24-hour electricity supply. “That’s part of the industrial revolution being envisaged by the governor. The shoe factory in Owerri is being reactivated following the resolution of the financial tussle with AMCON.