ABUJA – The quest for a credible Consensus candidate for Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has thrown up unlikely names to forcefully alter earlier calculations ahead of the February 26 National Convention of the party in Abuja. The changing compass is made worse by the delay in releasing zoning arrangements approved by the party as well as the relevant subcommittees to assist the CECPC in delivering a hitch-free convention. Political pundits until last Friday, have narrowed the race between two aspirants, namely Alhaji Umaru Tanko Almakura, former governor of Nasarawa State and Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, a serving Senator in the 9th Senate, with Turaki of Ilorin Saliu Mustapha coming a beard third in the equation. APC Chairmanship: Niger Governor, Groups Back Sani Musa APC Chairmanship Not Do -or-Die Affair – Yari, Almakura,… All that appears to have changed as the choice of both Alhaji Almakura and Senator Musa, according to reliable sources, have dropped from the pecking order. Instead, new names have suddenly emerged and are getting the attention of the four levers of power in the APC. As a matter of fact, some top party leaders have sniffed at the permutations of the pundits because of their obvious flaws. According to a source, one of the Aspirants favoured by pundits is believed to lack relevant experience while the other would not sell across the regions. Top among the names of emerging options is Senator Abdullahi Adamu, former governor of Nasarawa State and current Chairman of the Reconciliation Committee set up by the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) to reconcile disparate APC members following the rancorous party ward, LGA and State Congresses. A source hinted that the effort to reach a Consensus between Senator Almakura and Sani Musa has in most part ended up polarizing the party necessitating a quick review of options by powers that be. It was gathered also that there appears to be a convergence of opinion on Senator Adamu, described by one of our sources as “very experienced and mature to lead a party like APC. POLL “I think Senator Abdullahi Adamu is a good option. I am not aware that he has shown interest. But he is a strong candidate for Chairman from every indication”. Meanwhile, the confusion that has pervaded the APC due to the delay in releasing the zoning arrangement has become a source of worry for the Aspirants. The CECPC has also delayed the constitution of subcommittees which is expected to assist with the delivery of the Convention.