LAGOS – The Lagos State Government on Tuesday lifted the suspension placed on the Removal of Abandoned Vehicles Committee (RAVC), an ad-hoc operation in the state. The government said that this was necessary following the appraisal and review of the operational guidelines of the team in accordance with the Law of the State as captured in the Traffic Sector Reform Law (TSRL) 2018. A statement by Oluwatoyin Fayinka, the Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Transportation, said that having gone through the professional trainings for the discharge of their duties, the committee would immediately return to perform their duties. BREAKING: Soldier Shot During Community Attack In Gombe Kidnapped Kaduna Catholic Priest Regains Freedom Fayinka insisted that abandoned vehicles posed environmental nuisances, security and traffic impediments to the people of the state. He clarified that the creation of the committee was mainly for the removal of stationary and abandoned vehicles parked indiscriminately on highways and inner roads across Lagos State to reduce traffic for the motoring public. He lamented that thousands of abandoned vehicles are parked daily indiscriminately on highways and inner roads across the state, stressing that this contributed hugely to the daily traffic gridlocks noticed in the state. He observed that some artisans in the state had turned the road to their workshop, repairing vehicles on the road, loading and unloading on the road without due consideration for other road users. Fayinka expressed that public roads and estates would be affected by the law and appealed to motorists to keep their vehicles off the road to avoid encounter with the committee. POLL He further advised companies with fleet of vehicles to maintain parking garages for them. Fayinka advised the public to forward requests for the removal of all sort of abandoned or stationary vehicles in their respective areas to the office of the Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Ministry of Transportation, the Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. Suspension was on September 27, 2021 placed on the removal of abandoned vehicles committee by the state government, following series of complaints by members of the public on the activities of some of the units, which they alleged was causing embarrassment to the State Government.