AWKA – The Chief Whip and member representing Dunukofia State Constituency in the Anambra State House of Assembly Hon. Lawrence Ezeudu has resigned his position. Hon. Ezeudu left All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) on which platform he was elected and joined All Progressives Congress (APC) at the heat of the November 6 Governorship election in Anambra State. Speaker of the House,  Rt.Hon. Uche Okofor read out the letter of resignation from Ezeudu to lawmakers at the plenary on Tuesday. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Convention: APC Governors Meet, Zone NWC Seats Part of the letter of resignation from Hon. Executive read: “Sir, may I humbly thank the members of the 7th Assembly for having found me worthy to serve as the Chief Whip of the house; the position I have held since June 2015.” ”Today, I relinquish the position since it is conventional for the majority party of the house to hold the position of the Chief. This is also supported by our Standing Order” “As a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), I thought it wise to relinquish the said position forthwith while wishing any person the majority party chooses well” Ezeudu in his submission after the Speaker read the resignation letter, thanked the 7th Assembly for the trust bestowed on him and for the support and corporation. POLL The lawmaker reiterated his commitment to delivering his legislative duties to his Dunukofia Constituency and Anambra State in general. He said: “I have been in these position for seven years. I decided to cross-carpet from the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) to the All Progressive Congress ( APC), the decision I still hold soo dearly. I thought it wise to resign as the Chief Whip of this great assembly. “I want to thank my Deputy, Hon. Beverly Ikpeazu Nkemdichie for showing vigor through out my tenure as the Chief Whip. We never had any up-rising from the house. I will still support whoever the majority party dims fit to for the position, Ezeudu submitted Members representing Njikoka 1 Constituency, Hon Timothy Ifedioramma,   Nnewi North Constituency, Hon. Nonso Smart Okafor, in their separate submissions commended Ezeudu for his courage and quality representation. Hon Ifedioramma said: “I commend his courage, boldness and santity of the standing orders as it relates to his position. He is a man who seeks peace and want the progress of the entire house. Ayu Tasks Past Governors To Bring Back Their Colleagues Who Left… Bala Mohammed Hails Diri For Continuity In Bayelsa’s… “I thank him for a job well done. We did not have crisis within the time he held the position of the Chief Whip. Respect is earned and not demanded. Hon Smart Okafor affirmed Anambra Speaker, Rt. Hon. Victor Okafor while commending Ezeudu for his commitment as the Chief Whip stated that the Dunukofia representative have helped in managing the 7th assembly. “It is so unfortunate that you are leaving your position as the Chief Whip and on behalf of the principal officers, and the entire house, we wish you well because it is a personal choice and we pray that your stay in this house will continue to bear fruitful results, Okafor concluded#