LAGOS – Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo, an aspirant in the coming 2023 presidential election has pledged to bring consolation to Nigerians using the nation’s abundant resources available. He stated this in his presidential declaration speech, stating that God had blessed the country in such a way, that its citizens should have access to basic necessities. He described the current time, epitomized by skyrocketing prices of goods and services, a fall in the exchange rate of Nigeria, as well as increasing cases of insecurity as worrisome, stating that his team had already worked out panaceas for all these. 2023: Youths Unveil Rescue Nigeria Mission For Yahaya Bello In… 2023: Nigeria Owes Southeast So Much, Should Consider Region For… “Majority of Nigerian citizens are crying daily of hardship. The common man is suffering; there are no jobs for the youths, no security of lives and property. Should it be so for a country so blessed? My answer is no”.Oguntoyinbo added that he had thus far seen the groaning of Nigerians and had come forward to present himself as an answer, following a dream he had many years ago.“I want to bring consolation to Nigeria and Nigerians, I want to bring hope to Nigerians using the abundant resources in the land. I want to ameliorate the suffering of the masses, utilising the wealth of the nation”. Speaking further he asserted that God had abundantly blessed the country such that its citizens should not suffer, stressing that the missing link had been that of leadership, and having been instructed via a dream of several years ago, he had come to provide the missing link. According to him, what was needed in Nigeria currently, was “selfless, sincere, and honest based servant-leadership, guided by the highest sense of equity and fairness.“I offer myself, having identified the challenges of the nation, convinced of my prophetic destiny and assigned role in Nigeria’s rescue mission as revealed to me and some others long before now, by the Almighty God. “I indulge every Nigerian great and small, desirous of seeing our country, reach its God-ordained destiny, which made Him to richly bless this country, to key into this vision – theOlufemi Ajadi Oguntoyinbo presidential mandate”. According to him, his presidency is one committed to creating the enabling environment for Nigerians to realise all their legitimate dreams. POLL “Our youths do not have to go risking their lives on the Sahara Desert trying to escape hardship at home, or the Atlantic Ocean trying to cross to Europe or other continents of the world where there are greener pastures when they can actually stay back here to contribute their quota to the development of their country. Why are they not doing so? “It is because the conditions at home do not encourage them enough. If a youth is willing to contribute his quota but is not given an opportunity by way of a job, and a friendly environment to set up a business, what do you expect him to do? Adding, “If a patriotic Nigerian has paid his dues in terms of experience and education, and sees a position due him being given to another who does not merit it by any legitimate standards, what do you expect him to do? “You cannot blame youths leaving the country in droves if you have not provided them jobs at home, for it is said, that personal survival is the first law of nature. “In other words, if the conditions in Nigeria were right, there would be less of her citizens risking their lives in foreign countries. 2023: Project Nigeria #HCN2023 Urges Nwajiuba To Run 2023: Ebonyi PDP Legal Adviser Calls For Conference Over Zoning He stated that consultations are still ongoing as to the political platform for use in realising his agenda.Oguntoyinbo said he is predicated on a seven-point manifesto of Food security through agriculture revolution, Infrastructure Development, Security of lives and property, Economic Diversification through Enterprise promotion, Healthy living, Education and the rule of law. “All of these have been broken down to last implementable detail which we would begin to unveil at the right time. “For now, Nigeria needs a vibrant, dedicated and committed leader to help rescue her from the deplorable position it finds itself, a leader to help tap her huge human and material resources for sustainable development. I make myself available for the assignment”, he said.