IBADAN – A human rights group, LYGEL Youths and Leadership Initia­tive has berated the Economic and Financial Crimes Com­mission (EFCC) over its failure to interrogate the Chairman, Federal Character Commis­sion (FCC), Dr. Muheeba Fari­da Dankaka who was alleged to have falsified her name and some of her academic creden­tials. Specifically, the group con­demned the anti-corruption war of the current EFCC chair­man, Mr. Abulrasheed Bawa, saying the failure of Bawa to question Dankaka was a blow on the EFCC. Dankaka, who was alleged to have falsified her name and other academic documents was said to have been invited by the EFCC twice but failed to appear before the anti-graft agency. BREAKING: Police Arrests Seven Traffic Robbers In Lagos Robbers Kill UBTH Optometrist Doctor In Benin Acting on a petition filed be­fore it by a human rights group, LYGEL Youths and Leadership Initiative, the EFCC had last year invited Dr. Dankaka to ap­pear for interrogation before it twice but turned down the invi­tation on the two occasions for reasons not known. It was learnt that further steps were not taken by the EFCC to compel the embattled FCC chairman to appear before it despite the weight of the alle­gations and their implications for the nation. The rights group in a state­ment made available to news­men on Tuesday by its Director of Legal and Compliance, Mr Olalekan Oladapo claimed that its petition was duly submitted to the appropriate department of the EFCC and necessary documentation was done but expressed disappointment on why the FCC chairman failed to honour the invitation, and the complacency of the EFCC to compel her. The group had in its peti­tion dated 11th March 2021, signed by its Director of Legal and Compliance, Mr. Olalekan Oladapo and addressed to the Executive Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Bawa alleged that Mrs. Dankaka has no justifica­tion to hold the position of FCC chairman which she currently holds, having allegedly falsified most of her credentials. He said “subsequent upon the submission of the petition, the rights group was invited to defend her petition against the embattled FCC chairman and which was done in writing about almost a year ago. EFCC’s invitations on her came about a year after the petition. However, she shunned the invitation. POLL “Worried by the develop­ment, the rights group also wrote a reminder and same was received at the EFCC head­quarters on the 11th of January, 2022 but no noticeable step was taken by the EFCC, save for the visit of the Chairman of the commission to the FCC headquarters and subsequent processing of waivers not to advertise for employment by the EFCC. “The rights group had in a petition forwarded to EFCC alleged that “we have every reason to believe that Mrs. Dankaka’s credentials were falsified and or grossly incon­sistent with the name present­ed by President Muhammadu Buhari to the Senate for confir­mation.” Oladapo said, having gone through the Curriculum Vitae of Mrs. Dankaka and her cre­dentials, he discovered that “her Curriculum Vitae and creden­tials are suspicious of foul play and portend security risk.” The petition reads in part: “the alleged observed incon­sistencies, misrepresentation and imposition of Dr. Muheeba Farida Dankaka as contained in the Certified True Copies of her Curriculum Vitae and certificates which she submit­ted to the Senate for screening including the claim that she had honorary degree of Doctor of Philosophy from Pacific West­ern University, Denver Colora­do, USA in 2007. “The National Universi­ty Commission (NUC) had declared the Pacific Western University, Denver Colorado, USA, Owerri study centre where Mrs. Dankaka got her acclaimed honorary doctorate degree illegal and consequent­ly shut it down. The school was neither registered nor had the capacity to issue such a certif­icate. Mrs. Dankaka upon the award criminally pretend to be a Ph.D awardee and affixed the title to her name. Attempted Murder: Police Arraign Fani-Kayode’s Estranged… Police Kill 3 Hoodlums Terrorizing Neni, Aguata Divisional… “Mrs. Dankaka’s name on her Master’s degree certificate obtained from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria is Muiba Nike Salau which is not consis­tent with the name presented to the senate by President Mu­hammadu Buhari. The name presented to the senate was Dr. Muheeba Farida Dankaka. While Dankaka may be ex­cused as name adopted at mar­riage, Farida and Muheeba are without any reference and are so being used dubiously. “Mrs. Dankaka’s name that appears on the first-degree certificate she obtained from Bayero University, Kano was Muibat Adenike Salawu. The name is also at variant with the name officially presented to the senate for screening and confir­mation by President Buhari. “Mrs. Dankaka’s name on the West African Examination School Certificate obtained in 1978 is Salawu Muibat Adeni­ke, which is also not consistent with other documents she claimed to have had. “She also claimed to have ob­tained her first school leaving certificate in 1972. Gleaning from her Curriculum Vitae that she submitted to the sen­ate for her screening, she was born on January 2nd, 1964, by school admission age during this period (5 or 6 years old), this record shows she spent only 2-3 years for her primary school education. “In summary, her Curricu­lum Vitae and all her attached certificates are grossly contra­dictory, inconsistent and it was on that basis, that her appoint­ment was based,” the group added. Besides, the group alleged that Mrs. Dankaka had recent­ly removed the initial F. (Farida) from all her official portraits at FCC and all official documents she recently append her signa­ture. The group enjoined the EFCC to do the needful in re­lation to all the allegations lev­eled against Mrs. Dankaka, as the agency had done with other suspects for fairness and in the interest of the nation, stressing that her actions constitute eco­nomic sabotage and portend se­rious dangers to the security of the nation, just as it expressed concern over her decision to shun the EFCC invitation. Also, the group prayed EFCC to bring Dankaka to book if she’s found guilty of all the allegations leveled against her as there should be no sa­cred cow on the issue of crime as represented by President Muhammadu Buhari-led ad­ministration.