LAGOS  – The Socialist Workers And Youth League has stated that Nigerians anger against the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari forced him to shelve planned implementation of increase in the pump price of fuel in the country. Lai Brown, National Secretary of the group in a statement, also said the government might not be able to contain the fall out of the angst against the hike. He criticised the Nigeria Labour Congress for calling off the January 27 protest against the planned hike, saying it was as step in the wrong direction. How To Stop Soot Pollution ‘How Oil Production Underperformance Is Affecting Nigeria,… According to him, it was hollow on the part of the NLC and many a civil society group to dub the Federal Government’s suspension of fuel as a victory. He said this is particularly so in the light of the cancelation of what should have been a clear demonstration of working people’s power on the streets, using this suspension as an excuse. He said going ahead with the protest should have boosted the resolve of organized labor to press forward with action. He said: “This would have been invaluable to seal the hastily made declaration of suspension of fuel price increase and demand for concrete steps to be taken by government to ease the worsening economic conditions of the people. “We recall a similar situation in 2005. Despite government’s putting off a definitive date for fuel pump price hike at the time, NLC, TUC and their civil society allies still went ahead with a series of mass protests across the country. This sent a signal to the state that the labor movement was serious and ready to fightback POLL “The Buhari-APC regime is presently focused on the 2023 general elections. It is jittery because mobilization from below could undermine its chances at the polls. The #EndSARS revolt shook the rotten regime to its root when working-class youth occupied the streets in October 2020. It is worthy of note that the youth uprising came just a few days after organized labor’s bureaucracy called off a national strike at the dead of the night on 28 September 2020. “The role of the labor leadership has been more one of a brake on the revolutionary potentials of the working people’s movement. But it does not own the fate of our collective liberation. “The #EndSARS protests demonstrated that our liberation is our collective task. Similarly, we will recall that the Occupy Nigeria uprising in January 2012, which was forced on the labor bureaucracy, largely contributed to the defeat of the regime of Jonathan in 2015. Clearly the current regime cannot be taken for its words, it is a regime infamous for ignoring agreements reached. There are many examples to draw from. “In the last seven years, the Maj. Gen. (retd) Buhari-led regime has repeatedly refused to comply with court orders. Deregulation and inadequate local refining capacity will still make PMS and other petrol products largely unavailable and unaffordable to large numbers of the working-class people.”