Elder Emmanuel Ogidi, the former Vice Chairman, South-South of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this interview with JULIET OYOYO, spoke on latest developments in the party as regards zoning of presidential ticket and other issues of national interests. Excerpts: Sir, how do you react to the controversy in your political party, the PDP especially as it concerns the zoning of the Presidential ticket? What we said was that, we did not zone the presidency and as such, how can there be a controversy. It was stated by the committee given the powers by the exco of the party, that whatever decision reached or agreed upon as per the last convention of the PDP, would, when the time comes, be announced by the party. APC Inaugurates Party Officials In Benue Plateau APC Suffers Mass Defection Of Members To PDP We have a procedure in the party which is, the National Working Committee of the party will meet, discuss the issues and take it to the caucus that will sit on the issues raised and finally, take it to the National Executive Council, NEC of the party. The NEC thereafter, takes the decision. Therefore, it is not a controversy. We are made to believe that the governor under the umbrella of the PDP have hijacked the party and are therefore scheming to take positions of the President and Vice President position in the forthcoming elections. That is not true. They are also stakeholders of the party just like every other person. They are facilitators, whether you like it or not. The interpretation of our constitution makes them leaders of the party in their respective states and, we have only thirteen of them in all, presently. So, how do they hijack the party? What of the other 23 states remaining? Yes, it is no doubt that they are critical stakeholders but also; know that we have other stakeholders in the party. In our party’s constitution, we allow consensus. Therefore, we work towards consensus and that is it. Well, if they say they want a consensus, what is wrong with that? They are stakeholders and performing governors. After their stint as governors, what next? If they want to go to the senate or any other office, they are free to. They are also ripe to run for other elective positions. You cannot sit down and then they will assign a position to you. No! In politics, you wrest it, you go for it. After you have made up your mind, you go for consultations and that is what they are doing. Therefore, it is not true that they have hijacked the party. Why is the PDP as an opposition party not as vibrant as the APC when the APC was in the opposition? POLL It is simple. The PDP is not structured as an opposition party. We are structured to win all elections but, unfortunately, we lost the election and we do not know how to tell lies. The APC is gifted and very good at telling lies. The lies they are telling has caught up with them today and, that is the difference. And, because the people know us all these years, they said let us try the APC and they have now seen for themselves that the APC are just filled with lies and that is why they are saying they are giving us a second chance. We pray that we do not disappoint them. This is why I said, the PDP is not in disarray. By the grace of God, we are going to bring candidates that Nigerians will love and vote for. We hear there is a tussle between Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki and some other members of the party to which, the governors have disallowed them to make their ambitions known. How do you react to that ? What is tussle? You see, our guidelines have not come out and everybody, today is doing consultations and nobody has the right to tell the other not to consult. The timetable is not out yet. So, why do you want to stop somebody from consulting in his aspirations? The only way you can stop anybody is by the ballot and that is what the law says. Therefore, it is not true that the governors are stopping anyone. Taking you back to the zoning issue, will it not be fair for the position of the presidency is zoned to the south, by your party, taking into consideration that the PDP initiated the zoning formula in the first place? Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… Yes, we started it but you have to look at Nigerian people. They are the ones that will finally vote. What is the percentage of the members of the PDP compared to Nigeria? You must test the pulse of the people who are the electorates. Where is their thought? True, we can guide them. If you do not guide democracy, you are courting something else. Therefore, we can also guide them but, in guiding them, you must also look at their body language because, election is by numbers. That is why we said we are going to look at it holistically and, that is exactly what is going to happen. Therefore, I cannot say; even if I say it now, I am a party man and must follow what the party says. The governors of the South met. Not just the PDP governors but also all of the governors from the South and they all agreed that this is what they want. It applies to the governors in the north who said the same thing. I am from the south. If it comes to the south, so be it. But, because I am a party man, it is what the party decides that I will go with. Let me take you to Delta politics. It is said in some quarters that the Delta Central Senatorial zone will produce the next governor of the state. If we have to compare it with what is happening in Nigeria, should they zone it or, allow the people decide who they want? This is a very interesting one. We started this rotation but we did not discuss that this is the procedure. Somehow, it has been going like that but, do not forget that, each time, other groups still come out for the primaries. So, it is who wins that becomes the candidate. Let us use the case of the last two elections of 2015. Okowa came out for the contest and others too came out for the primaries. At the last minute, David Edevbie from the central contested for the primaries, If Edevbie had won the primaries, he would have been the candidate. Is that not so? Now, the central is saying it is their turn, fine. You cannot force anybody against anybody who has aspiration. You cannot stop somebody even when the party says it is here. Some will say they can do it and, if they win the primary, what happens? He is your candidate. If you remember the last one, somebody came from the South-south when we had our primaries in Port-Harcourt. One Osifo came out when we had our convention. Do you recall? We still voted. You do not know the mindset of the people. You will not know who is beating their drum but, if the person wins, that is what we are saying. The governor in Delta said it during a rally recently that we are going to do a credible primary and, whoever wins, is our candidate, irrespective of the senatorial zone. It is a very interesting process. Let us go back to the PDP in 98/99. Nobody knew it was going to go to the south, if you remember. But right there at the venue of the convention, everything changed. In politics, things happen. It could shift at any minute; here or there. Look at the APC now, it shopping for one candidate now and is even thinking of adopting Jonathan from us. They are shopping. They are simply confused. They brought us to this level today and this, is what we call a quagmire. If you ask me, we should be praying because, the hatred among us as a people today, is too deep. Therefore, we should pray that as we go into this election, we should come out whole because the bitterness is too much. If not, we should not be talking about south and north, by now, if we are truthful to ourselves. In addition, the bitterness is more serious today, because of Muhammadu Buhari as he has pushed for everything to go to the north and that is why today, the south is saying we must have it. That is the truth of the matter. If you ask me, I will prefer from the south but it is what the party decides that I will go with.