MAKURDI – There is a clear indication that the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has been factionalised, with Omale Omale declaring that the inauguration of the Austin Agada led executive does not hold water. The factionalisation of the party in the state became more pronounced in a statement made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Sunday. The statement was signed by Omale Omale, who described himself as the “APC Consensus State Chairman” for Benue state. It would be recalled that after the state congresses of the party, Omale Omale had challenged the processes that led to the emergence of Agada as Chairman. 2023: Nobody Should Spoil Ubuluisiuzo, Osumoghu’s Chances… Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… He insisted that the case he instituted against the party, not to swear in Agada as the state chairman subsists and until the case was determined, the state executive was yet to be duly inaugurated. While he expressed confidence that he would come out victorious at the court, Omale advised members of the party in the state to be geared up towards the forthcoming local council polls, adding that he would soon avail contestants of the party’s preparations for the elections. According to Omale Omale, “The Benue State APC new executives are yet to be inaugurated. The executive will be inaugurated after the determination of the case between Barr Omale Omale and two others against the party. “You may recall that I, Barr Omale Omale was the consensus candidate of the party for the position of the State Chairman in the last State Congresses and so remained, even though some persons want to impose a chairman on the party who is outside the area the position was micro zoned to in Benue South Senatorial District. “I urge APC supporters to remain steadfast, and present themselves for the forthcoming 2022 Local Government election. In the coming days I will provide you (members of the party) with relevant information and details on the party’s internal preparations for the election. POLL “In the interim, let’s continue to harvest massively and welcome all new members into our great party. I am confident that we will win our case in the court and end impunity in our party forever.