LAGOS – All the prospective corps members and other camp participants for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Ori­entation Exercise would under ­go compulsory COVID-19 Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT). Besides, only those that test negative would be allowed entry into the camps. NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibra­him disclosed this on Friday, during a live joint webinar by NYSC/NCDC organised for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Prospective Corps Members. Ikeja Golden Lions Club Applauded For Touching Lives Of… Drug Peddlers Beat Man Who Allegedly Invite NDLEA To Bunk The DG disclosed that those that test positive to COVID-19 would be handed over to the Ni­geriaCentreforDiseaseControl (NCDC) and State Ministry of Health Officials for treatment. General lbrahim revealed that the collaboration with NCDC has yielded good results, adding that since the partner­ship started, no casualty has been recorded in any of the Scheme’s Orientation Camps across the country. TheDirector-Generallauded the Federal Government, Presi­dentialCommitteeonCOVID-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Dis­ease Control (NCDC) for their support for the Scheme, espe­cially in the conduct of hitch-free orientation camps since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. Ibrahim, in a statement signed by Emeka Mgbemena, Deputy Director Press and Public Relations advised the PCMs to be security conscious, avoidnightjourneys, while also counselling them to break any journey that would extend beyond 6:00pm. POLL The DG stated further that Call-up letters for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise would be ready on Sunday February 20, 2022. In her submission, the NCDC/NYSC Project Lead for Safe Camp Reopening, Dr Ladun Okunromade said ade­quate preparations have been put in place for the safe conduct of the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise. She said different variants of COVID-19 are ravaging the world, while Nigeria has re­corded over 1,300 cases of Las­sa Fever with 46 deaths and 20 healthcare workers infected. Okunromade advised the Prospective Corps Members and other camp participants to come to camp with facemasks, hand sanitisers; obey physical distancing, maintain personal hygiene and also adhere to all COVID-19 safety guidelines.