A research and policy analyst has advocated the prioritization of surveying and mapping as best solution to the challenges facing the country. The expert further noted that prioritizing surveying and mapping would help to mitigate the numerous incidences of violent conflicts and crimes as well as the developmental challenges confronting the nation. Presenting a paper titled, “reforming and implementing the survey coordination Act: Issues, challenges and the need for collaboration,” the acting Director, Research and Policy Analysis in the Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution, Dr. Joseph Ochogwu, said surveying and mapping is an essential peace and security tool for conflict prevention, management and resolution in the society. Development Of Niger Delta Region Remains My Priority’ —… I Am Passionate About Development Of Ihiala – Nnabuife Speaking at the 2021 collaboration meeting with the Nigeria of the Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation and the Armed Forces and other security agencies on implementation of the Survey Coordination Act, Dr. Ochogwu, who is the guest speaker/resource person said that surveying and mapping is critical for development and governance. He said: “We need to begin to prioritize surveying and mapping in our national security and socio-economic development planning and implementation. We can only do that with a new Survey Coordination Act. “I wish to further reinstate that surveying and mapping is an essential peace and security tool for conflict prevention, management and resolution in the society, as well as critical for development and governance. Let’s Mainstream it into our national life so we can begin to enjoy peace, unity and development.” He, however, noted that the present survey Act is outdated and not fit to address the present challenges, adding, “from what I can discern in our surveying and mapping sector, we are using new wine in an old keg of wine. “What it means is that we are struggling to operate a new system using an old instrument of law. There is no doubt that the Survey Coordination Act of 1962 is an old and outdated legal instrument that cannot effectively serve the modern mapping and surveying professionals and industry in the country. POLL “The implications of this development are evident in nearly every area of our personal and collective existence as a nation. Therefore, we are left with no other choice than to reform the Survey Coordination Act 1962 into a modern and purpose-fit legal instrument that will transform the surveying and mapping sector. Invariably, leading us to our developed status as a people and nation.”