ABUJA – As reactions continue to trail the suspension of the February 26 National Convention of the party by Governor Mai Mala Buni led APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) the APC Rebirth Group has made a passionate appeal on President Mohammadu Buhari to rescue the party from imminent doom . The group in a statement signed by Engr Aliyu Audu said the action by the APC Caretaker Committee has demonstrated gross deceit also portends great danger to the nation’s nascent democracy, noting that the Committee has finally bared its fangs on what the group has all along been crying about. Audu said the Committee has clearly betrayed the trust reposed on them by President Mohammadu Buhari and leaders of the party and therefore has to be disbanded without delay. Nigerians, APC Members Tired Of Convention Postponement –… APC South Africa Kicks Against Postponement Of Party’s National… The statement reads: “As a group, the APC Rebirth is not proud to say it is vindicated by all the shenanigans going on in APC under the Governor Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, CECPC. “Since October last year, we foresaw all the deceptions that are now playing out and we called for the timely interventions of the leadership and stakeholders of the party. However, in his deep wisdom, President Muhammadu Buhari severally availed the Buni Committee the benefits of the doubt which it has now clearly betrayed. “In the light of the latest disappointment which the Mai Mala Buni CECPC has again meted out to anxious party members who had eagerly looked forward to the 26 February date willingly and deliberately announced for the Convention, it will be too much insult to all APC members to continue to tolerate this play on our collective sensibilities. “Gov. Buni and his CECPC have shown unpardonable deceit, incompetence, disregard for the President, disrespect for the party constitution and blatant abuse of power and privileges. It is therefore time for the Committee to be disbanded immediately in order to salvage the party and our hard earned democracy. POLL “If, for whatever reason, Buni and his CECPC are allowed to continue to run the party in accordance with the dictates of their personal interests and hidden agenda; then the APC would have betrayed the sacrifices all party members and other well-meaning Nigerians have made to entrench progressive governance and democracy in the country. “We plead with President Muhammadu Buhari to rescue the APC and our nascent democracy from Mai Mala Buni and his co-travellers hellbent on making nonsense of all of our sacrifices. Any further delay could spell doom not only for APC as a party but for democracy and the country as a whole. A stitch in time saves nine”.