Anglican priest and oil magnet, REV ASOLIYE DOUGLAS-WEST is an aspirant for the 2023 governorship election in Rivers State. In this interview with ERIOLUWA ADURA, he spoke about how the Ijaw-speaking parts of the state have been sidelined in governance and stressed that the situation should be addressed in 2023. The immediate past governor of Rivers State, Chibuike Amaechi and the incumbent governor, Nyesom Wike are both from Rivers East Senatorial District, while Dr Peter Odili is from the West. That means the South East has not had a shot. What is your view on zoning in Rivers State? The Constitution governing our democracy does not recognise the sanctity of zoning of hierarchical political offices, but, the zoning principle is an extra-constitutional mechanism which evolved as an appropriate response to deal with moral conscience in enthroning equity and fairness in the distribution of political benefits to satisfy sentiments relating to our ethnic diversity. No matter how contiguous our geographical affinity might be, we cannot live in denial or be pretentious about the existence of ethnic diversities just as resource endowments are diverse. Since we have found a mechanism of pooling proceeds of economic resource exploitation into a commonwealth for redistribution among the entities, therefore, it is a logical corollary that high-ranking political offices should yield to a negotiated zoning formula. Perhaps this was why the writers of our Constitution introduced the federal character concept as a means of invoking balance in representation and some semblance of fairness and equity in the allocation of resources among the constituent entities. BUA Group Remains Committed In Making Cement More Available,… BUA Foods Plc Will Generate Sustainable Employment, Boost… Rivers State is geographically dichotomised between an upland north and a littoral south with their peculiar physical features and topographies. Four prominent linguistic groups are recognisable within the ethnic diversities that make up Rivers State, which include the Igboid tribe (Ikwerre, Etche and Oyigbo), the Ogonis (Khana, Gokhana, Tai and Eleme), the Ijaws (Kalabari, Okirika, Bonny/Opobo and Andoni/Nkoro) and the Beninoid stock (Ndoni, Ekpeye, Abua/Odual. The Igboid, Ogonis and Beninoid stocks are located in the upland north while only the Ijaw speaking ethnicities are located in the riverine south. The threesome of Celestine Omehia, Chibuike Amaechi and Nyesom Wike, all of whom are Ikwerre speaking have ruled as governors for a consecutive totality of sixteen years shared among them. Peter Odili, representing the Beninoid was governor for eight years. A disregard for the zoning formula and the political expediency that enabled and enthroned Nyesom Wike as the third governor of Ikwerre speaking extraction is apparently emboldening them to enact an agenda and act a script intended to perpetuate hegemony which is unconscionable to good moral conscience, equity and fairness. If and when we recognise our diversity, the application of the zoning principle is a pragmatic way of guaranteeing inclusiveness and social justice. Despite the heterogeneous nature of Rivers States as you have laid it out, all the governors since 1999 come from one particular area, how do you feel about that? It is rather disinteresting, disquieting and disconcerting to witness a situation where one particular ethnic group had devised a stratagem of capturing and retaining power for 16 years without consideration for the political well-being of other constituent ethnicities. Using the advantage of incumbency, that same ethnic group is still unjustifiably wrangling and plotting to produce a candidate for the 2023 election. I am a strong proponent of a paradigm shift where compromises and negotiations would embrace themselves in favour of a candidate from the riverine south. I stand to be corrected, the riverine Ijaws have been very patient and understanding. It is the turn of the Ijaws to produce a credible candidate to be elected and serve as the next governor of Rivers State. It will be a demonstration of bad faith and insensitivity if our brothers’ upland should insist on satisfying their appetite for power by presenting another candidate for the governorship election in 2023.  Their argument of possessing a higher voters’ population in Obio/Akpor is untenable and dubious. What will be your agenda for the people of Rivers State if you become governor in 2023? Often times we give priority to the wrong things. I wonder why the incumbent governor finds it fashionable to expend so much resources on constructing flyover bridges in the Port Harcourt metropolis. This appears to me as heaps of concrete clutter. Things have to be done differently to fetch different results and change the narrative about governance. There is going to be a departure from the old ways of doing things. After nearly 24 years of uninterrupted democracy we can hardly perceive or feel a meaningful impact of governance positively changing lives in Rivers State. Poverty is still very pervasive. We have to create a new message that emphasises value creation as the distinctive selling proposition with focus on investing in human capacity development, inventing new ideas to modernise the economy through knowledge and eco-tourism. Human beings are the most valuable resource any society can possess and developing the capacity of human resource should form the priority of any government. It is human beings that initiate and propel the knowledge-driven economy. Human beings build and work in factories. Human beings construct the roads and bridges.  Human beings cultivate the farms. With a bold determination, I have unyielding conviction that the new direction to steer the state is investment in human capital who would be armed with the capability to create ideas, invent innovation and reduce poverty. Therefore, our agenda will prioritise human capacity development and to build brand new cities that would redirect the movement of population away from a congested Port Harcourt. Research and development, supply chain logistics, tourism and agriculture are other critical sectors that would receive preferences in the agenda. POLL How do you intend to increase IGR in the state when you become governor? I may not be able to give comprehensive details of our strategy for increasing IGR but I know there is a foundation already established by successive governments. It would be appropriate to say that we will build upon that foundation by tweaking and introducing some reforms that would totally revolutionise how public tax revenue management system can be deepened and expanded in line with global best practice. While seeking to plug leakages where they exist and reduce the cost of tax administration, we will strive to expand the tax net to include more taxable individuals and entities especially among the informal sector. The new economy we envisage would seek to create enabling environment to ease doing business and attract new businesses. We would provide incentives to encourage small scale start-ups What stands you out among other aspirants? There is an urgent call to duty to alter the narrative about the ways the business of governance is conducted. Rivers State needs a forward-thinking leadership whose preoccupation would not be to preserve its own privileges but to channel energies and resources into building a modern economy and a smart society in very critical moments in the history of a people, those in whom God is well pleased would hear His voice, whom shall I send and who will go for us? They would offer themselves and say, here am I, send me. Many governors have come, and seen but failed to conquer. Many appropriation bills have been passed into law but budget implementation has failed to deliver on promises.  I would like to describe two scenarios and situate myself in the appropriate context. On the one hand there are those who are either thrown up by the system or they throw up themselves and run for political offices in order to fulfill some personal ambition or ethnic agenda but on the other hand there are others who seek the opportunity to serve in leadership position in order to manage resources efficiently and effectively for the benefit of the community. Those who run the race most likely turn out to be chips off the old block whose contribution would terminate at maintaining the status quo but those who seek to serve would bring value. The challenge is big but my resolve is firm. The mission is urgent but my purpose is unmistakable. The terrain is tough but my faith is solid. I am a political outsider but a providential insider. You have not decided on the political party platform on which you want to contest the election, how do you want to actualise your aspiration? Only 20% Of Nigerians Will Require 5G Extra Services – Bello 2024: My Pain For Esan People – AVM Okpere I am not a card-carrying member of any political party yet. I realise that the mechanism for selecting candidates for election in the existing political structure in the dominant parties is flawed. The so-called dominant political parties have cultivated and entrenched a certain culture and habit that could be likened to the laws of the Medes and Persia that changeth not. A game-changer would probably be located in one’s ability to create a vision and an alternative message that can resonate a rhythm that would connect with the hearts and minds of the people. All things being equal, upsets caused by dark horses are not improbable in the race. Why should the Rivers people vote for you against other candidates in other parties? Athletes who compete in the 100metres race usually set their focus on the finishing line with little regards for other opponents. My personality is braced with impeccable and well-balanced credentials containing physical, educational, corporate and spiritual attributes in a total package. We have experimented democracy for more than two decades and the system has been structured in a particular way that seems to breed and throw up a retinue of predictable candidates whose world view is content and consistent with satisfying and maintaining the status quo. Rivers State is known to be resource-rich but conversely performance-poor. Run-of-the-mill candidates cannot give any performance beyond their substandard capacity. The time is ripe to look outside the political box so things can be done differently and achieve smart results.  I am convinced that I fit into the species of political outsiders with a forward-leaning and cosmopolitan mindset and without affiliation to preexisting power blocs and appendages that usually constitute encumbrances to good governance. This is the era of the emergence of a new kid on the block. Considering the role of money in Nigerian politics, do you have the financial muscle to scale through the campaign processes and election proper? If we consider the volume of money injected into politics and electioneering in Nigeria, one may be overwhelmed and discouraged to venture into the political enterprise. The significance and influence of money on politics and electioneering cannot be underestimated. The significance of money is intended to achieve the right purpose but the influence of money does the contrary. I would rather focus on the significance of money than on its influence. Money is a flow variable like current in water which is not stagnant. It flows in the direction where the gradient is not flat. If the message we have can connect with the people and the value proposition we are bringing can resonate the proper rhythm then we are confident that one can become marketable to attract patronage from crowd investors and passive stakeholders without overriding interests. Holders of campaign funds who are much discerning are usually persuaded to direct their funds to support the candidate with higher prospects of election marketability. I am confident that the charisma, character and content about my candidature should give me some edge in this regard. What is your grassroots standing, how do you intend to endear yourself to the people? Elections are not won by grassroots per se. Elections are won by the largest number of voters drawn from different demographic constituents through effective mass mobilisation. The same crowd of grassroots can appear at different political campaign events organised by different political parties. As vulnerable as they might appear to be, the grassroots do not mortgage their loyalty and dedicate their patronage to one politician. As long as the pendulum in the clock swings, the loyalty of the grassroots can be shifted at a right price. The structure of our electioneering has been designed in such a way that huge investment of capital is often required to achieve mass mobilization at the base of the voter pyramid. And the capital here refers to credibility, social net-worth, political goodwill and war-chest. The most important among these variables is the war chest, which has the capability to turn a disadvantage into an advantage. What this means is that beyond one’s reputation and socio-political capital, how heavy is your war-chest could swing the pendulum to command the widest spread of grassroots’ loyalty and patronage in your favour. Illegal oil bunkering is a reoccurring discussion in Rivers State, what is your position on the subject? Viewed from the perspective of proponents of conservation advocacy illegal oil bunkering activities create incalculable devastating effects on the environment. The processes involved in illegal oil refining compromise health and safety issues and further aggravate pollution and degradation of the environment. Illicit oil bunkering and illicit solid mineral mining are acts of economic sabotage, whether they are artisanal or large-scale. The consequences are so damaging that generations to come would have to live and grapple with the devastation for an indeterminable amount of time. But on the flip side, illegal bunkering has metamorphosed into an ostensibly amorphous but covertly well-syndicated economic sabotage activity. Those who are sympathetic to their cause would argue that it is a reaction to a dysfunction in statecraft. Its sustenance is oiled by corruption. I guess the perpetrators derive their gusto by copycatting the illicit mining of solid minerals taking place in some other parts of the country unquestionably. They are emboldened by the fact that if the system accommodates illegal miners of solid minerals to conduct their nefarious business that sabotages the economy without hindrance or consequences then they have an indefensible high moral ground to puncture pipelines carrying crude oil and process it in makeshift refineries for their personal gains. And we can see how the custodians of values and caretakers of the treasury have been rascally and reckless in flaunting opulence from rents and proceeds from state capture. Some Northern elders kick against zoning in the 2023 presidential election, what do you say about that? Because you are befitting from some unfair advantages accruing from pre-existing structural defects in our federal system does not mean that power should be monopolized and treated as a trademark patented by the inventor. Power at the centre was not invented and patented by the North and as such should not be treated as their exclusive preserve. Nigeria belongs to all Nigerians because we share a common heritage and nobody deserves to be treated differently because of their tribe and tongue. Plural democracy means that our politics should accommodate a multiplicity of divergent interests, compromises and inclusiveness. If we consider it convenient and acceptable to exploit and gather economic resources and share amongst the federating units without regard for contribution ratio why is it inconvenient and unacceptable to share political resources according to a negotiated zoning formula in order to give a sense of belonging to all and sundry. If we claim that the unity of Nigeria is non-negotiable and sacrosanct and our heritage is shared then the content of our politics and governance and power-sharing should be made elastic to accommodate the ethnic diversities without bitterness and unfairness. The growing and sporadic agitations for self-determination could be attributed to lack of affirmation, inaccessibility to equal opportunities and power-sharing imbalance.