The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) of Stanbic IBTC Bank report released earlier in the week has said that the Nigeria private sector recorded a growth in January 2022. The PMI in a report released earlier in the week, said that output in the sector continued to rise at a robust pace and attributed this to a larger workforces as well as supportive domestic and international demand conditions. According to the report, firms in the private sector recorded a fourteenth successive uptick in January, but noted that from December’s 16-month peak, the rate of expansion was marked, and higher than the long-run series average. Nigerians In Egypt Pay $19.2m For Business Registration FirstBank Rewards Customers In Its Visa Gold Cashback Campaign The report mentioned the agricultural sector as one of the indices that led to the growth in the private sector segment, but observed that cash shortages weighed on new orders, which rose at the softest rate for a year-and-a-half. Apart from agriculture, manufacturing, wholesale and retail and services followed in the growth, the report hinted. Despite this, it said firms remained committed to raising output and stockpiled inputs, while sentiment improved to an 11-month high. It added: “Cost pressures remained sharp in January, but purchase price inflation eased notably from December’s previous peak. The headline figure derived from the survey is the PMI. Readings above 50.0 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50.0 show deterioration. “At 53.7 in January, down from 56.4 in December, the latest expansion pointed to a softer, yet solid, improvement in business conditions. Expansions have now been seen in each of the last 19 months, with the latest uptick the softest since September. Central to the moderation was a notable slowdown in new order growth. Total new business rose at the softest pace in 18 months with panel comments mentioning that cash shortages and high prices weighed on new order growth.” POLL The report emphasised further that with new order growth easing in January, firms raised their output levels at a softer pace, maintaining that at this rate, growth was still robust. Sentiment improved to an 11-month high during the month amid plans to expand operations, stressing that firms raised their headcounts marginally, which contributed to a sharp reduction in backlogs. The Stanbic IBTC Bank in the report, however, feared that the resurgence of COVID-19 pandemic cases and tighter restrictions in international markets may weigh on vendor performance in the new year. Also, the report stated that rising wage and raw material prices led to another increase in overall input costs for firms, noting that unfavourable exchange rate movements further drove up expenses. “Consequently, firms increased selling charges, but the rate of increase moderated notably,” it said.