As the Nigerian popular saying goes, “shoes come in different sizes”. That shows that things as well as human beings may appear sim­ilar, some are more valuable than others. The above saying is even truest in the world of fashion. While we all know that act of wearing clothes, including the very concept of fash­ion itself belongs to everyone, the world of haute couture isnot. It is exclusive and only giants I the fash­ion industry play in that league. Yet, may we please leave off the French Government’s definition of Haute Couture and sail on with the popu­lar one; thus, those who meet that definition are the houses or design­ers that create exclusive and often trend-setting fashions for women. Someone wrote that “Costume and Fashion history would not be the same without Haute couture”; a French phrase for high fashion. Couture means dressmaking, sewing, or needlework and haute means elegant or high, so the two combined imply excellent artistry with the fashioning of garments. The stress is on excellence! And Ms. Isioma Obi of Isy-B House has not only been creating clothing that meets whatever definition of excel­lence, no matter how high and she has done so to the extent that the Fashion World has taken adequate notice. She is even called upon to deliver lectures in her chosen field (of creating clothes of original de­sign and high quality) not only in Cayman Islands’ National Gallery but in various parts of the world. Male Infertility And Twenty-First Century Interventions Who The Cap Fits Let Them Wear It As a Nigerian, sometimes, you don’t know whether to rejoice or to cry. Getting to know about Isioma Obi threw me into such a quandary. Please, think of a Nigerian whose fashion creations has adorned the bodies of the world’s most beautiful and most powerful women. Please, think of a Nigerian whose works are on display at the world’s leading beauty pageants. Please think of a Nigerian whose works are usually on display at the top most runways in the fashion universe from Paris to Brazil. Yes, you would then be thinking of Ms. Isioma Obi, from Asaba, the Delta state capital. Yes, this makes the Nigerian in you to rejoice exceedingly. Yet, wherever and whenever her creations are on display, she is claimed by the Cayman Islands, a Caribbean Island tourism resort, where she lives. Isy Obi was born in Lagos. She attended Corona Primary School, Ikoyi, Lagos, and left thereafter for her secondary and university edu­cation in the UK, where she gradu­ated in Finance and qualified as a Chartered Accountant. Isy’s father, Felix Chubby Obi schooled at Immaculate Conception College (ICC) Benin and the Univer­sity College Ibadan. Her mother, a daughter of the pride of Asaba, late Mid-West Region Premier, Dr. Dennis Osadebay, attended Baptist Girls Secondary School, Agbor, be­fore studying Pharmacology at the University of Ibadan. Before she re­located to the UK, she had a fashion design studio in a room at her Ikoyi, Lagos home, where some employees from Ghana and Togo kept the sew­ing machines humming. A financial company posted her to the Cayman Islands and she rose to become a Vice President there, but the bug bit really hard and she simply quit her job to go into a full-scale fashion design business. POLL How difficult was it for Isioma to quit the finance world for fashion design? She said in an interview: “I come from a powerful lineage of creative women – my love of de­sign was inherited from my moth­er who was a fashion designer, and she learned from her mother before her. It was with my mother that I learned to design clothes first for my dolls, then for myself and other women. Now, my design aesthetic is in­spired by a combination of influ­ences –I love exploring the natural world, the experience of travel, and artistic expression in all forms. I am also a natural medium and I chan­nel this intuition into my designs. I am grateful to receive much of my inspiration through my connection with Spirit and am often awestruck at the love and loveliness that comes through”. Spirit? Fashion critics have praised Isioma, saying she actual­ly creates with heart and soul and spirit – the totality of her person. On this, she said: “to me, there is a distinct energetic difference between clothing that we wear that activates that sense of amazingness within us versus clothing as a pati­na (meaning: a gloss or sheen on a surface resulting from age or pol­ishing or the impression or appear­ance of something). My purpose is to design pieces that evoke a sense of the miracle that you are, a deep knowing inside yourself that you are amazing, without needing val­idation from the rest of the world. The intention behind my designs is as a reminder of the deepest truth of who you really are, beyond any labels, and stories that you have ac­cepted about yourself. Isy B. is a transmission, and that’s the energy that I feel when I’m cre­ating the pieces. That’s the energy you can feel in the colours, prints and the designs. Isy B. is not for hiding or blending in. Each piece is as beautiful and unique as you are and has been created in the spirit of beauty, always with you in mind. Preventable Pains Of Fuel Scarcity! A Nation’s Perpetual Self Subversion This is the essence of my work. Creating beautiful things that con­nect you back to your beauty, and back to your heart. The core of ev­ery collection I create is rooted in elegance, effortlessness and feeling good. I design using the harmony and flow of individual elements in the colours, prints and shapes that speak to the beauty that is inherent in each of us”. Towering Claims? No; Isioma has won prestigious awards including the ‘Lifestyle Designer of the Year’ at Phoenix Fashion Week in the USA. In 2019 Isioma received the prestigious Bronze Star Award for creativity from the Cayman Islands National Arts and Culture Commit­tee after the success of her 3-month ART OF FASHION exhibition – com­missioned by the National Gallery of the Cayman Islands. Isioma is now a global player; partnering with global online manufacturing platforms to sell her clothing line directly to customers. Nineteenth Amendment, a USA online sales giant recently signed a contract with Isioma Obi to market her Isy-B Luxury Brand direct to its six million shoppers. Analysists say the Isy-B brand is complicated; producing sophisticat­ed yet wearable creations, chic, yet versatile, island-inspired outfits, yet with global acceptance. I saw this in a Cayman publication: the Isy- B brand’s “Signature touches include custom prints, luxurious fabrics and fine finishing. The overall look is one of cosmopolitan relaxed ele­gance infused with a unique Cay­man flair”. Cayman flare? I shook my head in anger; who will tell that writer that what he has mistaken for the Cayman flare could easily be trop­ical African flare, reminiscent of Isioma’s Nigerian roots and carry overs from her Lagos and Asaba experience? The Nineteenth Amendment, named after the U.S. statute that gives women the right to vote, was established to give talented design­ers a global platform from which to launch their collections in a cost-effective, customer-friendly and technology-efficient way. One of the first collections from Isioma to that sales outlet was the “Mod­ern Tribe,” and was described as being inspired by the natural beau­ty and diversity of Cayman”. Cay­man Islands again? Please, Isioma is Nigerian and so is her creativity. I have focused on Isioma Obi to­day to tell other Nigerian youths that the road to success and ful­fillment may be unusual. Do you have the talents to be a fine artist, fashion designer? Please, don’t de­spise such. There’s a lesson here too for the government. All that Cayman Is­lands have is the physical beauty and superb climate of the islands which made them a promising ha­ven for tourists. To turn that poten­tial into reality, the Encyclopedia Britannica says the government invested heavily in promoting tourism, which increased eight­fold between the mid-1970s and the early 1990s. Since then tourism has continued to grow steadily, as the islands have developed a good reputation for diving. Most vis­itors are from the United States. Airports on Grand Cayman and Cayman Brac and a private the air­strip on Little Cayman facilitates tourist traffic. Cruise ships call at Grand Cayman, bringing some one million visitors annually on day trips. In addition, hundreds of thousands of stopover tourists (those who stay one or more nights) visit the islands each year. Then the government made in­ternational finance to become a major component of the economy. The Britannica says “The Cay­man Islands are renowned as an offshore banking centre, owing to the absence of direct taxes and to liberal banking laws that generally ensure confidential transactions. Hundreds of banks and trust companies, including most of the world’s 50 largest banks, are regis­tered in the Caymans, making the islands one of the largest financial centres in the world. Revenue paid by registered businesses contrib­utes considerably to the govern­ment budget. There is a shortage of labour, and much of the workforce is made up of immigrants on tight­ly controlled work permits. The chief occupations on the Cayman Islands are in clerical and service work and in the construc­tion trades. Agriculture occupies only a small number of Cayma­nians, and most of the islands’ food must be imported. The main crops are citrus fruits and bananas, as well as mangoes, plantains, co­conuts, sweet potatoes, yams, and tomatoes. Some livestock is raised, chiefly cattle and poultry. Turtles raised on a government-operated turtle farm provide food, shells, and leather”. That Cayman Islands have the highest quality of living among all the Caribbean Islands shows how well Cayman Islands leaders have succeeded. And the tax Isioma Obi pays adds to buoy up that economy.