BAUCHI – A group known as Air Marshal Abubakar Sadeeq Student Forum has expressed concern over the deteriorating state of education in Bauchi State, saying that the situation has brought hardship on the indigenous students in the state. The spokesperson of the group, Aliyu Hussaini who stated this during a press conference at the NUJ press center in Bauchi, said that the group was founded with the aim of identifying the challenges bedeviling the indigenous students of the state with a view of preferring solutions by engaging expertise in various sections. According to him, under the previous administrations, Bauchi State recorded numerous breakthroughs in the education sector which was achieved through the creation of strategic policies and an enabling environment for learners and teachers, adding some of the strategic policies in the education sector include the creation of Special schools, local scholarship, international scholarship amongst others. Upgrading Of College To Federal University Of Education Excites… Nigeria Ignores Funding Technology But Investing In Corruption… Aliyu said that the sector under the present administration has become backward and pathetic to the extent that international scholarship has now been terminated for over four years, local scholarship is now partially disbursed to only a few students and only paid when elections are fast approaching as well as the termination of sponsorship of 200 students of Malikiyya college of health whose sponsorship was offered by the previous administration. “This is the 5th year that students of Bauchi state have been deceived in regards to fake promises made on the issue of local scholarship. It was in 2020, that the government paid a selected number of 92 students out of thousands on the ground, a situation that the student leadership protested against” “It was the tradition of the state government to secure Jamb scratch cards for SSCE students as an encouragement to further their studies to tertiary institutions within the country, sadly today, the reverse is the case as it is past history. Again, the medical bond given to medical students as stipends by the previous administration has been disrupted by the present administration despite the challenges of the health sector” “Today, we intend to break the silence on the challenges of the education sector and many others. This development has necessitated the meeting of stakeholders to find a solution to the deteriorating state of education. The stakeholders resolved that the only solution to the challenges of the sector, is a change of administration we have confidence in” he said The Spokesperson of the group said that stakeholders in the state, having searched diligently, found Air Marshal Abubakar Sadeeq as the answer to the plight of students because of his outstanding records, achievements and compassion towards the plight of the common man. POLL “Air Marshal Abubakar Sadeeq is a good listener, a father who is compassionate and has concern for students and the education sector. He has an outstanding leadership quality which includes being an Alma-Mater of the university of Maiduguri for over 10 years where he offered scholarships to indigenous students of Bauchi State studying in the university, secured jamb scratch cards for over 600 students to further their education, sponsored 21 students to further their education overseas in India, offered registration fees to an uncountable number of students within Tertiary institutions within Bauchi state amongst others.