Something happened on Monday in Lagos and a few other states which makes me believe that some Nigerians intensely distrust the electoral system in their country. On that day, there was a rash of protests against former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, in Adamawa, Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Kaduna, and – as already mentioned – Lagos states. The protesters were asking the serial presidential candidate to forget it this time. According to the reports, the protesters were former supporters of Atiku, some of them from the North, who now have decided that this time, it’s the turn of the South-East. A statement by North4North, one of the protesting groups, has a ludicrous ring – like a poorly written but highly hyped poem. So, I smiled all through as I read the statement. I will now proceed to quote a large part of it without any intervention. “We, for our part, have promoted the candidature of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for years, but we humbly call on the former vice president to do us a good turn in return for the many good turns we have done for him. We have sacrificed a lot pushing for the presidency of Atiku Abubakar all these years even though we have been abandoned by him after each election cycle. It is time for him to project national interest outside of his need to become president. Male Infertility And Twenty-First Century Interventions Haute Couture: Nigerian Isy Obi: Pride Of Cayman Islands “At almost 80years, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar does not have enough in the tank to put in the high level of physical and mental effort required to fix Nigeria. We must give all parts of Nigeria a chance to become president of the country, or we might slide dangerously into the narratives of divisionists enemies of the state who will have a ready recruitment pool from among disgruntled groups. “Only one region in Nigeria has not been given a chance to take the presidency of Nigeria and it is only fair that 2023 almost a quarter of a century into our current democratic system the south east is reminded that they just as Nigerian as the rest of us. “Fairness and equity is the major ingredient for sustainability of any society as history has clearly shown and Nigeria can be no exception to this clear and present rule of nation building; when a society begins to deviate from the principle of fairness and equity, it declines and slides down the rabbit hole of oblivion. “The presidency cannot also afford to go to an older candidate, considering the enormity of the demands of the job in the 21st century, where there are series of factors playing into a tectonic shift in economic centers of gravity, coupled with the many challenges confronting Nigeria that requires a proactive person with energy to cope with the rigors of office. “It is the unanimous position of Nigerians, as deduced from the sampling of opinions through our consultations on the subject matter thus far, that the presidency should go to a younger candidate in tune with the realities within which we exist in today’s world and capable of making decisions at the pace required there from. POLL “The southeast deserves the presidency of Nigeria come 2023, and we must narrow down our focus to searching for the best candidate from the region, rather than allowing the public discourse space to be crowded by a cacophony of distractions that will end up robbing us of the very best of us. No doubt politics is important as development can only take place in an atmosphere of peace, confidence and sense of belonging in the system. “The only way forward for Nigeria is forward and we can’t afford to go back to the old ways of choosing presidents from certain parts of the country, to the exclusion of others.” I suppose you got the message? If you got other things apart from the message, congrats. Now, here’s my take. This would be the first time in my own memory that people who are eligible to vote candidates of their choice in an electoral exercise still about a year away would lose their patience and run to the street to demand that someone should not exercise his constitutional right to vie for an elective position. This should be a new normal in democratic practice. Certainly, that individual against whom the protests were arranged must be remarkably formidable enough to attract such panicky offensives. The protesters dropped a little hint about the motivation for the protest: “We have sacrificed a lot pushing for the presidency of Atiku Abubakar all these years even though we have been abandoned by him after each election cycle.” This is a familiar accusation against Atiku – that he had abandoned his supporters after every election cycle. Let this be tucked away somewhere while we explore other – but explicit – reasons given by the alienated Atiku supporters. Preventable Pains Of Fuel Scarcity! A Nation’s Perpetual Self Subversion The statement claimed that at almost 80 years old (he’s actually 75 years old, about four years younger than American president, Joe Biden), he had lost the physical and mental verve to engage the tasking challenges waiting for the post-Buhari government. But the writer immediately brushed aside this age argument (for obvious reason) and went straight to the main course of the meal – we must give all parts of Nigeria a chance to become president of the country. That’s fine. So, we should canvass this position and call the muse of justice and equity to witness it but let us not forget that the ballot is the known valid means in an electoral process to reach this end; it is not an antagonistic means such as protest. Such belongs outside the electoral process, except where it is a protest against the electoral process itself (where there are observed contraventions) and not about an individual’s right to participate in that process if he qualifies. The writer went ahead to claim that it is the unanimous position of Nigerians, as deduced from the sampling of opinions through our consultations on the subject matter thus far… Now, that sounds like a paragraph lifted straight from an advance-fee scheme letter. No, it is not the unanimous position of Nigerians. At least, it can’t be proven. Enough of that protest and its claims. We have reached another bend in the long-manipulated electoral process in our country and we have to attempt this time to tidy up as much loose ends as we can. Toxic campaigns, like we have already started witnessing, should be minimized for our own good. In my opinion, the clamour for power shift is not at all misplaced. After Buhari’s chain of skewed appointments, I don’t blame those who insist on power shift. After all the long silence from Abuja despite the infinite ravages of herdsmen, I don’t blame those who think that it’s time for another power group to step in and address the issue of first class and second class citizens. Indeed, any change that would address the naked impunity that has reigned over this country under the present government is highly desirable. But this is why we must do it differently: through an earnest and rigorous search for a sincere and brave leadership. So, looking back to 1999, was having Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan such a blessing to the South that we should desire another Southerner? Our long history of inept leadership should teach us to seek the best available and if this search for the best leads us to power shift, all well and good. But if power shift will lead us into a powerless, incompetent, and uncharismatic leadership, there would be more pain on the other side. Our long sojourn in the wilderness derives simply from a succession of electoral systems that asphyxiate the best and create room for emotional choices. For instance, even in 2015, Muhammadu Buhari could not prove the slightest understanding of the economy and had not the faintest picture of a different policy direction. He was just hooked on anti-corruption sloganeering. Today, we are going to have presidential aspirants addicted to the opium of regional power shift. That won’t be too good for us. Let us have men about us that are (intellectually) fat; sleek-headed men, and such as sleep overnight (see Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar Act 1: 11). These men we shall listen to and decide – not on the strength of their sentiments – but on the weight of their message, the lucidity of their presentation, the depth of their knowledge, the brilliance of their ideas, and the clarity of their vision. Simply put: Nigeria’s next president should be able to sell himself to the electorate. At this point, it is already obvious to all that the next president would come either from the All Progressives Congress (APC) or the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) since there has been no worthwhile political mobilization or movement after the 2019 polls. Again, there are rumours that Obasanjo and his fellow dreamers are thinking of raising a third force and the organized private sector are thinking along those lines, too. At the end of the day, they all must find space in either of the two political behemoths, as I have already argued elsewhere, because these initiatives are just an afterthought. That’s not how to achieve national electoral success. And, of course, if the candidates come from the APC or PDP we’re going to face, once again, the pathetic option of choosing between two manageables, and after the poll, it would not matter where the new helmsman comes from – Ogidi or Kaura Namoda – hope would be defeated. The only way the campaign for power shift can achieve anything meaningful in the long run is if the two big parties are able to evolve a challenge devoid of money politics and emplace it with a contest of ideas that will attract only those who have political vignettes to offer. This is asking for too much, I guess. We are so miserably under-schooled in political mobilization in this part of the world that to achieve any definable shift – not the bland or vapid shift being touted – we need a whole circle of four years and an incredible war chest to set up new structures and defeat the old. For now, how do we get through the jumble of protests and sponsored blackmail that threaten our sanity in the name of political campaigns ahead of the 2023 polls?