MAKURDI – Former President of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo may have withdrawn his investment from the Raav, Land Development Site project in Naka, Gwer-West Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. The withdrawal from the investment, which happened in another part of the state, may not be unconnected to the action of arsonists that set fire on the former president’s mango orchard at the land development site in Howe, Gwer-East LGA of the state, over alleged non-payment of compensation for the land, which is about 2,000 hectares. The Rav and Howe land development sites are mong over 150 sites that were created in 1980 by the administration of the first Executive Governor of Benue state, Apollos Aper Aku for investment purposes. Dearth Of Pilgrims Threatens Airlift Of Christians From Benue Anyam Vows To Create Over 20,000 Sports- Related Jobs In Benue Daily Independent sources at the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources informed us that based on internal squabbles and hindsight, the former president decided to withdraw monies he had earlier plowed into the Raav site, which would have brought about the establishment of another multimillion naira project in the state. Our sources lamented that the withdrawal of the investment at Raav has deprived the state of a major investment and revenue, amounting to hundreds of millions as well as loss of job opportunities in thousands. He was also piqued that the situation at the development site in Howe may affect the earlier intentions of the Nigerian leader to establish a fruit juice factory in the area. He noted that even though the state may have lost the investment in Raav, he prayed that the former president would have a rethink over the arson on his farm in Howe, so that he does not ditch his plan to set-up a fruit juice factory that would derive its raw materials from the Howe farm. However, on claims that the land at Howe was not compensated for, the State Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Kester Ikyenge insisted that the land belonged to the state government. POLL He however noted that when the agreement was struck between Obasanjo farms and the host community, all interest groups in the host community were given a token. Thomas Unongo, Director, Agriculture who disclosed this on behalf of the Commissioner while speaking with newsmen in Makurdi on Wednesday noted that some form of stipend was made available to the locals during the signing of the agreement. While he explained that the land was leased to Obasanjo farms for a period of 25 years, Unongo stated that elders, traditional rulers, the local government chairman, youth and women groups as well as other stakeholders benefitted from the stipend that was made available on the day the agreement was signed. Part of the agreement he stated was that majority of the workers on the farm would be drafted from the host community, adding that 95 percent of the workforce as well as women cooking for the workers are from the community. Unongo also observed that even though about three communities have taken the state government to court over some of the Land Development Sites in their areas, he stated that to the best of his knowledge, the people of Howe were not in court over the said land on issues of compensation. E