*It Was An Accident – OGD, Police ABEOKUTA – A policeman, Sergeant Adeleke Ogunsola, attached to the former Governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel has died at the Asoludero residence, Sagamu, of the former Governor while trying to open a gate to the House. Independent gathered that the officer was knocked down while trying to open a gate for one of the drivers to the former Governor. Edo NUJ Warns Against Attack Of Members On Lawful Duties LG Polls: Police, Soldiers Take Over ENSIEC Office It was learnt that while trying to open the gate, the gate bounced back and hit the officer before he was knocked down by the driver. Ogunsola was thereafter rushed to the hospital where he was said to have eventually died. A Police sources, who spoke with journalists alleged that their colleague’s death was being swept under the carpet by the Ogun State Police Command. The source who did not want to be mentioned because of lack of authorisation said he wasn’t happy that Ogunsola was turned to a gatekeeper instead of the job he was posted to do in Daniel’s house. According to them, an officer was once ‘sent out’ out of the building over his refusal to be reduced to a gatekeeper in police uniform. POLL “Why will an armed policeman be the one opening a gate? Why will politicians turn the police into their slaves. When an officer refused to be used as a gateman in the house, they called the DPO that he should change him and he was redeployed.” “A policeman bearing arm will be asked to open gate; drivers, civilians and Daniel himself will be telling officers to open gate. If there is a gatekeeper in that house, this will not happen. This was a man who left his home for work on Saturday morning, but he died.” “It is so unfortunate that our bosses in this job are not speaking the truth because of what they want to eat. Imagine, officers posted to that Gbenga Daniel’s residence are paid N2,500 weekly. Now that guy has died. What will he give to his family that will replicate the life of that officer? We are tired of this job,” the police sources said. The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident, saying, however, that it was an accident. “That was an accident. He was opening the gate, the gate bounced back and the driver mistakenly hit him with the gate. It’s an accident, it can happen to anybody.” Repentant Commercial Sex Workers Marry In Bauchi Hoodlums Attack Lambata New Village Head Asked if a policeman should be the one opening a gate, Oyeyemi replied: “Well, we don’t know the circumstances that led to him opening the gate. We were not with him on duty. It maybe that the gate is of two arms, somebody will be open the first arm, another person opens the other. It’s possible. If he’s not armed as of the time, he can help in opening the gate. But we’re not there with him. We don’t know the circumstances that led to him opening the gate. It is an accident. It can happen to anybody.” Asked, the police image maker said the Ogun command has sent a condolence message to the family of the deceased Sergeant Leke Ogunsola. When contacted, the media aide to the former Governor, Steve Oliyide, confirmed the details of the incident, adding that the officer walked his way to the treatment hall before he later passed on. He said, “On Saturday, 19th February, 2022, one of the Security Details assigned to the residence of former Governor Gbenga Daniel, Leke Ogunsola was involved in an accident at the security gate of the premises. He was immediately taken to the hospital, and then referred to Babcock Hospital in Ilishan. “He was alive and responding as he walked his way to treatment all through until he unfortunately passed on later in the day. “The former Governor who was not in Sagamu as at the time of the incident was duly informed and he has been in touch with the deceased family through Police Authorities.” He however maintained further that the only authority that can speak extensively on the matter is the police authority, adding that speaking at this time will be preemptive of the outcome of the investigation as being carried out by the Force.