ABUJA – Former President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) on Friday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Electoral Act (amendment) Bill 2022 into law. They also hailed the National Assembly, Civil Society Organisations and other Nigerians who remained persistent in insisting that Nigeria deserves a new law that will guarantee free, fair and peaceful poll in 2023 and beyond. Saraki in a statement by his head of media, Yusuph Olaniyonu, noted that while President Buhari deserves commendation for working with the federal legislature and rising above partisan interest to give the country a new law that could reform the electoral process, the big applause should go to the members of the civil society organizations, who for the past one year have kept up the pressure and continuously agitated for the passage of the new Electoral Act. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine “Let me specifically commend the effort of CSOs like Adopt A Goal Initiative, Raising New Voices Initiative, Human Rights Advocate, One Love Foundation, To Build The Nation Civil Society, YIAGA Africa, International Press Centre (IPC), Centre for Citizens With Disability (CDD), Albino Foundation, CLEEN Foundation, Institute for Media and Society (IMS), Nigerian Women Trust Fund (NWTF), Human Rights Advocate, Ready to Lead Africa and Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCI), among many others. “They have kept the issue of the passage of the Electoral Act on the front burner for the past year. They were unrelenting and with the passage of the law, they deserve to be specially commended. We hope they will continue this good work on other key issues that are very important to the development of our dear country. “The youths in these CSOs have yet again proved that they can accomplish any task of nation-building if they set their minds to it. Their persistence, positive energy, and constructive agitation have contradicted any claim that Nigerian youths are lazy. Rather, the youths of today are reminding us of the role their forebears in the Nationalist struggle of the pre-independence era, particularly, the National Youth Movement (NYM), played in bringing an end to colonial rule. “I enjoin these youths in the CSOs to take their efforts to another level. That is the level of mobilising their numerous colleagues to go and register to vote in the coming general elections. The new law provides an opportunity for all Nigerians of age 18 and above to be part of the efforts to build a better future for our country. They have the chance to have their voices heard loudly. We can all choose a better way and a better future. If we want a fresh start, if we want a new direction for Nigeria, we all have to vote for it. “The new Electoral Act brings us closer to having free, fair, and peaceful elections in which people’s votes count, where the majority will have their way and the minority will have their say. For too long, the old electoral law had been part of the problem. We can now seek to elect our leaders having in mind the current challenges facing our country. POLL “With a new Electoral Act, we can move on to debating real solutions to the problems of insecurity, creation of jobs, strengthening of the economy, cementing national unity and building a better future for all Nigerians,” Saraki stated. Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar said, “now that the legal framework for the 2023 elections is in place following President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to the Electoral Bill, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs to roll-out the election guidelines in earnest so that the political parties and Nigerians can fully commence the journey to choose their leaders in 2023. “I wish to acknowledge the work of the legislature in bringing this law with new innovations into fruition. I also pay tribute to the nudge of the civil society and patriotic Nigerians in making this brand new Electoral Act a reality.” Also reacting, the CUPP said it received with extreme joy the news of the signing into law of the amended Electoral Act by President Buhari. The CUPP said that though delayed and allowing for Nigerians to mount pressure calling for assent to the law, Nigerian opposition coalition is elated that finally Nigeria has a law that will revolutionize the electoral processes. NATO Leaders Agree To Bolster Eastern Forces After Invasion Biden Nominates 1st Black Woman To Supreme Court CUPP, in a statement by its spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said, “we therefore commend President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Bill thereby creating a new and advanced legal framework for our elections. “We also commend the National Assembly for their commitment and effort and ensuring that the law is amended and that there is now legal backing for some of the innovations introduced by INEC. “We further commend the Civil Society and indeed Nigerians for not letting go or reducing the pressure on both the National Assembly and the President to sign. They have done Nigeria proud. “We also commend the opposition family for holding the government to account on the need to amend the electoral law early enough to allow INEC ample time to implement the law for a free, fair and very credible 2023 general election.” The party also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its contributions and innovations, which led to this very robust amendment to the electoral Act. “We also remind the Commission that with today’s assent to the Bill, the ball is now squarely in the court of the Commission to begin in earnest to plan for the elections, urging them to release the election timetable soonest to ensure stability and certainty in the process and in the polity,” CUPP said. The opposition coalition, however, called on all political parties to put their acts together and embrace internal party democracy as this will enable only popular individuals to emerge as candidates of their parties as doing otherwise will lead to their failure as only candidates voted for by Nigerians can now win elections in Nigeria since the 2023 election is highly anticipated to be free, fair and credible.