ABUJA – The Senate has moved to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensics and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria to provide for the control of its membership and promote the practice of Forensic and Fraud Examinations in Nigeria. The Upper Chamber of the National Assembly also sought to Repeal the Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act and Re-Enact the Nigerian Law Reform Act, 2019 in order to facilitate the effective implementation of the Commission’s Law Reform proposals and enhance its operational performance. The action by the lawmakers is sequel to their passage of a Bill sponsored by the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North). INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Convention: APC Governors Meet, Zone NWC Seats The Institute of Forensic and Fraud Examiners of Nigeria bill and three others were passed moments before the upper chamber adjourned plenary on Tuesday. The other bills include: Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act (Repeal and Re-Enactment) Bill, 2022; National Orientation Agency Act (Amendment) Bill, 2022; and Nigerian Institute of Chartered Foresters Bill, 2021. Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, in his lead debate on the bills, recalled that the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Fraud Examiners of Nigeria (Establishment) Bill, 2022 (HB. 1220) was read for the first time on Wednesday, 1st December, 2021. According to him, the “Bill seeks to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensics and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria to provide for the control of its membership and promote the practice of Forensic and Fraud Examinations in Nigeria.” “Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act (Repeal and Re-Enactment) Bill, 2022 (HB. 14) was read the first time on Thursday, 30th January, 2020. POLL “This Bill seeks to Repeal the Nigerian Law Reform Commission Act and Re-Enact the Nigerian Law Reform Act, 2019 in order to facilitate the effective implementation of the Commission’s Law Reform proposals and enhance its operational performance. “National Orientation Agency Act (Amendment) Bill, 2022 (HB. 12) was read the first time on Thursday, 30th January, 2020. “This Bill seeks to Amend the National Orientation Agency Act, N100, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LEN), 2004 to provide for an operational framework for the Global Initiative for Harmony Corps to among other things, Promote Inter-Ethnic Integration, Mediation, Peace-Building, Mutual understanding, Patriotism, for peaceful Co-existence and for Related Matters. “Nigerian Institute of Chartered Foresters Bill, 2022 (HB. 801) was read the first time on Tuesday, 7th December, 2021. “This Bill seeks to establish the Nigerian Institute of Chatered Foresters to provide for the control of Its membership and promote the practice of Chartered Foresters. Anambra Chief Whip Resigns Ayu Tasks Past Governors To Bring Back Their Colleagues Who Left… “Mr. President, my respected Colleagues, these bills were passed by both chambers of the 8th National Assembly. They are straight forward and have again gone through the necessary legislative process in the House of Representatives”, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi said. The four bills for concurrence were passed after a Clause-by-Clause consideration by the Committee of the Whole.