LAGOS – With the  ratio of pharmacists to patients  currently put at 1: 50,000, an expert and a fellow of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Pharm. Ijeoma Okey-Ewurum has warned that the deepening brain drain of  health workers is increasing capital flight, thereby  weakening Nigeria’s  foreign exchange(Forex). The expert further warned that the country is at the risk of losing more pharmacists to other countries with predictable career growth and commensurate remuneration, except there is urgent improved remuneration working conditions for them. Okey-Ewurum, who is the immediate past National Publicity Secretary of PSN was among the 112 eminent pharmacists inaugurated recently in Abuja as Fellows of the society during an august occasion which witnessed the installation of Prof. Cyril Usifo as the new PSN President. Tuberculosis Employers Urged To Develop Relevant Policies  To Prevent … She lamented that brain drain is taking its dangerous toll on the country’s health delivery system and the economy at large. The seasoned pharmacists bemoaned, “Brain drain is the bane of quality health care delivery in Nigeria and the main reason for health care tourism. Take for instance patients who have comorbidities that require special pharmaceutical care, when he cannot find it in Nigeria, remember these practitioners are elsewhere, the patient will move to access the required care. “These put a lot of pressure on the Naira, further weakening it against other currencies. In summary, when you continue to lose your highly trained health care professionals, the already ratio is further widened. This puts a lot of stress on the available few, impacting the quality of services delivered and the mental health of the practitioners.” Deeply worried about growing capital flight among pharmacists,  Okey-Ewurum said, “I would want us to look at this issue differently from what we knew in the past. In a space of  three  weeks, I lost three colleagues to the West. I had never been this directly affected. Two of these were my mentees. “Pharmacists and other health care workers are a highly-priced workforce and their training, rigorous and expensive. Nigeria is struggling under the clutches of poor leadership and endemic corruption with its resultant depressed economy and dilapidated infrastructure. “Our country as it is may lose more Pharmacists to other countries with predictable career growth and commensurate remuneration,” she noted. POLL The thorough-bred pharmacist further gave a breakdown of the current ratio of pharmacists to patients, noting that it is highly dismal.  Okey-Ewurum,  told Daily Independent, “The recommended ratio of pharmacists/ patients is 1: 2000. But, according to data available in 2020, Nigeria Pharmacists to patients ratio stands at 1: 50,000. This is scandalous. With the rate of emigration of pharmacists, I am afraid of what today’s statistics will be. The ratio is quite embarrassing,” she added. On where she sees Nigeria in terms of the ratio of Pharmacists to patients in the next five years if the brain drain continues, the experienced healthcare practitioner reasoned, “It is common sense knowledge that the gap will continue to widen if the immediate and remote causes are not addressed. Okey-Ewurum recommended good pay package for pharmacists to curb the ugly trend. She further called immediate full implementation of the consultant pharmacists and establishment of a Nigerian Post Graduate college of Pharmacists to curtail the brain-drain among pharmacists. The Fellow of PSN said, “Full implementation of the consultant pharmacists cadre as gazetted.- establishment of a Nigerian Post Graduate college of Pharmacists to support the West African Post Graduate College of Pharmacists, currently serving this purpose alone. Similarly, she said, advocated for government’s involvement and investment in the residency programme of pharmacist residents, to match world’s best training programmes. “More Schools of Pharmacy should be established as a matter of urgency if the credibility of the Nigerian health care delivery system is to be assured,” she added. FG Says COVID-19 Vaccine Is Important Tool To Contain Pandemic COVID-19: Proportion Of Fully Vaccinated Nigerians Still Very… She also stressed, “Nigeria must fix the leadership problem which is a hydra-headed monster affecting every facet of our development. The citizens should elect credible leaders who will have the impetus to ensure our ministries are run by competent persons. The spate of insecurity has assumed indescribable dimensions. Pharmacists have lost their lives in the line of duty given their accessibility to patients at all times and convenient locations at no cost to the patient.” Okey-Ewurum insisted, “There is a need for more investment in the training of Pharmacists. The consultant pharmacists’ cadre should be implemented to the letters and more investment directed to the Residency training of Pharmacists. “The government should pay attention to the recent pronouncement by the PSN for a need to establish Nigeria Postgraduate College of Pharmacists. Improved wages should be paid to Pharmacists to enable them to concentrate on the onerous job of pharmaceutical care.” She further said, “Equity and fairness should replace partiality and unjustness which defines the Nigerian Health care sector to motivate different professionals to apply their distinct competencies to holistic patient care. We need to work on our country to bring back hope against the despair that stares us in the face,” Okey-Ewurum said.