ENUGU – The National Executive Committee (NEC) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has passed a vote of confidence in its President General, Ambassador Prof. George Obiozor. The motion for the vote of confidence was moved by the National Publicity Secretary of the association, Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia. Ogbonnia in a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on Saturday expressed immense delight that Professor Obiozor has shown leadership in the quest for a Nigerian president to emerge from the South East of Nigeria. Obi Cubana: Invitation By NDLEA, Another Ethnic Harassment On… Warri Correspondents’ Chapel Pass Vote Of Confidence In… Ogbonnia explained that Obiozor has maintained unwavering and vigorous advocacy for the prevalent Igbo project. “Obiozor has used his profound intellectual prowess, diplomatic finesse, national and foreign contacts to sustain the Igbo dream,” he said Ogbonnia recalled the Obiozor deliberations with the Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum led by Chief Edwin Clarke that gave rise to a communique that it will be a regrettable requiem for any political party that fails to pick its presidential candidate from the South. The Forum asserted that Nigeria is founded on a negotiated unity between the diverse Nigerian nationalities and that only a balance of interests among the component units can guarantee its corporate existence. POLL Ogbonnia noted that since the present cycle of Nigerian democracy, 1999 to date, the presidency has rotated between the North and the South; any effort to truncate the norm is a back-pedal and indeed a downward trajectory to the dark days of Nigerian history. “On the other hand, the least General Muhammadu Buhari owes Nigeria is to “do unto the South East in 2023 what General Olusegun Obasanjo did unto the North in 2007. This is equity; an irrevocable universal principle whose violation attracts perilous consequences” Ogbonnia also cited the unalloyed position of Ambassador Obiozor on Mazi Nnamdi Kanu; reiterating that even when it is clear that Obiozor does not align with the Kanu methodology, he has nevertheless displayed incredible large heart, fatherliness, creative empathy and offered useful suggestions through which Kanu can be set free. In seconding the motion, the President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Delta State, Hon. Frank Nwandu stated that Obiozor is God-given and that there couldn’t have been a better turbulent manager than the Obiozor genius. Also, In supporting the motion, Comrade Paul Nwankwo, the President of Abia State commended Obiozor for his wisdom, competence and inter-ethnic political relations.