AKURE – Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on weekend commended the Olujigba of Ijigba, Ambassador, Luyi Rotimi on the spate of development in the community in Akure South Local  Government Area of the state. The governor noted that the efforts of the monarch in providing enabling environment in the community was responsible for meteoric development that took place within the period he ascended the throne. Akeredolu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Princess Oladunni Odu, stated this at 10th coronation anniversary of the monarch on Saturday at his palace. Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… The event was graced by several personalities, friends and associates of the monarch, natives of Akure kingdom, religious leaders, traditional rulers and political officeholders, including the Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Tayo Alasoadura. Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi led other traditional rulers to the event in honour of the former Bank chief. The governor charged traditional rulers in the state to emulate the Olujigba, saying they should all work as agent of development in their individual domains. He noted that it had become clear that alone could not bring speedy development to all nooks and crannies of the state, thereby calling for partnership with the citizenry and corporate organizations. In his address, the Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs disclosed that when he was in the community three year ago, it wasn’t as developed as it is now. POLL He therefore commended the monarch for his contributions to the development of the community, saying “I was here more than three years ago and Ijigba was not as beautiful as it is today. He has contributed so much to the development of the land and the people. “He has developed a very brilliant master plan for Ijigba and if we that are working with President Buhari could develop a master plan like this, Nigeria will even be better. “He has developed a master plan for a small community of Akure. That shows his capacity and the gifts that God has given to him.” The minister promised to build a police post in the community to ensure security of life and property. The Olujigba, in his address, appreciated God for the grace he bestowed on him to lead his people. Adebakin Celebrates Lagos PDP Leader, Kuye at 70 2023 Presidency: Okowa Our Preferred Candidate – Northern… He promised to intensify efforts to serve with diligence, loyalty and integrity the people of Ijigba community and Akure kingdom in general. Ambassador Rotimi disclosed that “Our road map for development are, Neighborhood Market, Transportation Bus Routes, Master plan, to consider Recreation, Sports, Library, Entrepreneurship Development Centre. “Harmonization of the separate layouts of the settlement for synergy through mutual cooperation for strategic development and constructive progress.” The monarch, therefore, appealed to the state government to give attention to the monthly salary of monarchs and various challenges being faced by Ijigba community.