All indications are pointing towards the need for commercial banks in the country to raise additional capital to be able to remain in business but Nigeria’s large foreign currency borrowings are said to be standing on their way. Investigation by Daily Independent revealed that efforts by banks to attract foreign investors are not providing the needed response due to Nigeria’s debt position. As at the first quarter of 2015, the country’s public debt stood at N12.06 trillion, a figure that has ballooned to N38 trillion as at last September, recording a growth of 208 percent. Still, the official statistics under- reports the actual amount owed. Constitution Amendment: NLC Vows To Shame Lawmakers Who Vote… Easter Celebrations: JAMB Reschedules Mock-UTME, Registers… Last year, Fitch Ratings, a global research institution, raised the alarm that government’s reliance on ways and means facility (WMF) sourced from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to fund budget shortfalls, to finance its deficit was a major cause of the country’s rising inflation. The Debt Management Office (DMO) did admit the existing WMF was a challenge and disclosed a plan to convert it to a 30-year debt instrument. As at early 2021, the amount, which is not captured by the national debt reporting, was estimated at N10 trillion. At a media function later last year, the DMO Director- General, Patience Oniha, could not give the updated figure but confirmed that, “it was estimated at N10 trillion earlier in the year.” More than ever before the need for additional capital requirements has remained the better option just as the CBN advocated a phased manner, which provides some relief for the banks that will require additional capital. POLL The fear of Basel III implementation is also another reason why banks in the country are required to beef up their capital to be able to fit into the systems. Basel III is an internationally agreed set of measures developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in response to the financial crisis of 2007-09. The measures aim to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of banks. Like all Basel committee standards, Basel III standards are minimum requirements which apply to internationally active banks. Members are committed to implementing and applying standards in their jurisdictions within the time frame established by the committee. Previously, Nigerian banks classified as international banks and/or domestic systemically important banks (mostly tier 1) had to meet only a minimum total capital adequacy ratio of 15 percent, while national banks met 10 percent. With these new rules, according to Basel III report, there will be minimum requirements at several levels of capital, and all banks will be required to hold a capital conservation buffer of one percent, in the form of common equity capital. For systemically important banks, an additional one percent of common equity capital is required for higher loss absorbency. Including the buffers, the prospective framework will require these banks to have a common equity tier 1 ratio of 12.5 percent and a total capital adequacy ratio of 17 percent. The report said some of the tier 2 banks will be expected to comply with a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) of 11.5 percent and Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of 16 percent. It said national banks are expected to have a CET1 of 8 percent and CAR of 11 percent. In addition to capital requirements, the central bank will apply a cap on the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid to both common equity and additional tier 1 capital providers. The ceiling will depend on a combination of four factors: the banks’ NPL ratio, CET1 ratio (including buffers), leverage position and a composite risk rating which is solely determined by the CBN. However, according to analysts at Tellimer Research, there are mixed implications for Nigeria banks as under Basel III, in the short-to-medium term, the Nigerian banking sector should be equipped with better capital quality, stronger levels of capital and robust liquidity positions. There is also the benefit of reduced risk-taking given the additional restrictions on concentrated exposures. However the incoming rules mean changes for some banks – and these changes have both positives and negatives. Given that the new guidelines are heavily focused on liquidity, banks with lower liquidity positions will have to build their stock of liquid assets – cash, treasury bills etc. This will have a negative impact on net interest margins, as the increased stock of high-quality liquid assets will attract lower rates compared to placing funds in longer-term assets that yield higher returns and hence higher margins. The report noted that this is disadvantageous for the smaller/tier2 banks. This is because these banks have lower liquidity ratios than the remaining tier 1 banks, which have an average liquidity ratio of 56 percent. Analysts as well as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said the large foreign currency borrowings are working against the banks. The IMF said the turbulence in the financial markets which may require that Nigeria considers extending her debt maturities. The IMF said while emerging markets were more resilient with higher reserves, financial vulnerabilities would remain, especially in countries that have higher public and private debt. It added that debt service burdens could rise significantly in the year as interest rates rise. It said, “Public finances will come under strain in the coming months and years, as global public debt has reached record levels to cover pandemic- related spending at a time when tax receipts plummeted. Higher interest rates will also make borrowing more expensive, especially for countries borrowing in foreign currencies and at short maturities.”