ABUJA – A non-partisan group under the auspices of the Nationalists Movement (NM) has hinted that if former President Goodluck Jonathan emerges as the presidential flag bearer of any political party, he will win the presidential race. The National Coordinator, Nationalists Movement, Engr. Abidde Robinson stated this in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja while calling on Jonathan not to be deterred but contest the polls. Describing Jonathan as a unifying force that can keep the country one, Robinson said that the nation’s unity, peace, and security need to be preserved now than before. Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Confirmation Of Gumus, APC Member As INEC Commissioner, Coup… He said that Jonathan has garnered the requisite experience, especially for the period he has been out of government to identify things that need to be done differently, to quickly achieve the expected results of rebuilding Nigeria. The statement reads in part: “Jonathan’s outstanding record and landmark achievements remain a bold footprint on the sands of time.” He stressed that Jonathan’s candidature is marketable, adding that they are waiting for him to declare his intention to run. He noted that it is better to vote for Jonathan than any other candidate because “the Angel you know before is better than the one you just meet”. According to him, “As the count down to 2023 Presidential elections begins, all patriotic Nigerians must deeply reflect on this adage that says, “when a child falls, he looks front but when an adult falls, he looks back to see what caused his fall.” POLL He also described Jonathan as a democrat who can build, entrench and deepen strong democratic culture and institutions, not strong personalities. Robinson said Nigerians need a popular leader like Jonathan with a track record of integrity and statesmanship to bridge the north-south alliance in 2023. Jonathan was Nigerian president from 2010 to 2015 on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He was equally Vice President of Nigeria from 2007 to 2010 under the administration of Umaru Musa Yar’Adua but became President when Yar’Adua died in 2010.