Mrs Nelly Eseagwu, Proprietor of Poshland School and one time staff of Newswatch Magazine, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about how education can eradicate crime, improve the economy, make citizens creative, and able to provide employment for themselves, among other issues. Excerpts: Please, tell us what inspired you into investing in school despite the huge resources required to maintain a standard school like yours? I will say that it is passion that drove me into investing in education. If you have listened to my story you will understand why it is so. You Need Product Knowledge To Grow Sales – Umoh High Cost Of Food In Nigeria Is Caused By Insecurity – Ononye I think I have mentioned this to you the other time you had an interview with me, but I will tell you a little bit of the story again. When I was growing up, I used to gather children, some of them my age mates, to teach them. Whenever I had an opportunity to play with my friends and age mates, I always loved to teach. When I moved to Lagos I picked up a teaching job and that was when I realised that I had the passion for teaching. I enrolled for higher studies at Lagos State University to read education management to improve on my education. It will be amaze you to know that in most of the schools that I taught, I always emerged as the best teacher. One thing led to the other and Poshland was born and I must tell you that I love what I am doing and God has been faithful to us. The students are doing well and their parents are proud of them, and that is the joy. Poshland is over three years now by the grace of God. POLL What is special about your school? We give priority to standards in Poshland. Our students get the best in terms of academic and moral standards. We place academic excellence above everything. We mold the character of our students and pupils as well. I can confidently tell you that our school is one of the best schools around. We get feedback from parents and other people who are not even parents but who know our story. We are just over three years old but unless we say so, you will not believe that we are that young because we have accomplished so much. Parents who enrolled their children and wards in our school have always testified to the high standards. We don’t preach it but we act it here. Success In Business Requires Good Operational Knowledge –… Inflation Is Killing Businesses In Nigeria – Ogbuehi The standard of education in Nigeria is falling from available reports, strikes by teachers, inability of some private schools to operate under minimum standards, lack of effective supervision on the part of the government and insecurity. What are your thoughts on these? All of the above issues are inter-related. It falls back to the issues in the larger society or what I will call societal malaise. The society is afflicted; there is so much crime in the society which in turn affects the standard of education. Teachers are not properly remunerated; they are owed salaries in some states and even lecturers in higher institutions are owed salaries. Our institutions of learning are not well equipped. It is abnormal for school to close down for over one year because of strikes by university lecturers. Teachers are not motivated to give their best. This is what has affected the standard of education. The budget for the education Ministry is nothing to write home about. It is true that some private schools are operating below standards and that is because the supervising Ministry of education is not doing its job. The government has relegated education to the background, which is the reason the standard is falling. The insecurity in the country is another huge challenge. Students don’t go to school for fear of being kidnapped or killed, so the government must rise to the occasion and ensure that security is provided. It is the primary responsibility of the government to provide security to the lives of the citizens. I don’t even know how they cope over there in the North where we hear of one kidnap or the other every day. Another issue is poverty and unemployment; you will begin to see students drop out of school from secondary school. Some of the yahoo boys you see are school dropouts. They feel that it is faster to make money through crimes. Some parents are not helping matters. How can a parent collect money from an underage child who should be in school? Educating the students should be the responsibility of the schools and parents, but some parents don’t even look at their children’s books, maybe as a result of economic pressure. Parents have also failed to take up their responsibilities, abandoning everything to the school and the school cannot fill the gap appropriately. Some parents can even leave their children in school beyond the closing time at the mercy of security men and some bad eggs. Government on its part should also be held accountable, political instability worsen the situation, where a new government abandons the policies of the previous government. I hear some state governments say they will declare a state of emergency on education, I think it is a welcome development because educating the citizens will help eradicate crime and improve the economy of any nation. When you educate your citizens they will be creative jobs for themselves. You speak as though everything is fine in your school. Don’t you have any challenges running the school? I love what I am doing because I didn’t just decide to invest in the business because I saw others investing in it. It is something that I have a passion for but that doesn’t mean that I don’t have any challenges in the business. There cannot be business without challenges. We have already discussed some of the challenges we have in the education sector, they also affect us. The state of the economy is affecting us too because some parents no longer meet their obligations. We have cases of parents not paying school fees as at when due, or nonpayment at all. We just have to keep managing because sometimes it gets to the point that your hands are tied as to what to do, do you send the children home? This is where you see the difference, as when it is passion that is driving you into what you are doing. You get fulfilled. I don’t know if I have mentioned this to you before that when school is on vacation, I do fall ill occasionally, because the presence of these children gives me joy. I used to call parents to speak with the pupils just to hear their voices. Is the business profitable? It is not a charity organization and since it is not a charity organization, it should be profitable. I don’t just fold my hands and wait for what comes in from the school because I am also an education consultant. I consult for schools, I organise tutorials for students of Joint Admission Matriculation Examination (JAME) and other programmes . I have a first and second degree in education and like I said earlier, education makes you creative. You don’t get educated because you want to use your certificate to go about looking for jobs, nothing spoils if you can get one with your certificate but education will make you use your knowledge to create jobs. The business is profitable because we put in our best to ensure that we give service and as we serve we deserve our wages as well. I always tell people that profit should never be a priority for anyone who wants to grow in the business otherwise he or she will be frustrated because profit doesn’t come immediately.