DAN AMORAs I was saying, Imo State happens to be one of the states in the South Eastern geopolitical zone of the country today whose inhabitants are allegedly the most enlightened. This emblem has been there from time immemorial. Probably due to this accoutrement, the people of the state love development. But the state has never had a leader who developed the state like former Governor Sam Mbakwe. At a time when part of the present Ebonyi State, present Abia and present Imo States were part of the old Imo State, Sam Mbakwe made Imo to be one of the best states in Nigeria. That was the best the people of the state had seen before the emergence of Sen. Hope Uzodinma. Many Imolites see Hope as a God-sent who has come to make their state harbitable. Even in the area of healthcare, Uzodinma is unbeatable. The people of Imo State who initially felt dissatisfied how a number four candidate from the reckoning of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), have now shown open excitement for Uzodinma’s performance as Governor in just two years.What this shows is that performance is indubitably the fulcrum of leadership. With what senior editors have written and what is on ground, Uzodinma has really taken Imo State to where it belongs. From the horse’s mouth, the Chiecf Medical Director of Imo State University Teaching Hospital located in Orlu, Dr. Mbamala has confirmed that Uzodinma has given the “Centre of Excellence” a facelift. In Agriculture, the biggest project is Adapalm which has gulped over N350billion. The governor has recently toured some West African countries and the African Development Bank (ADB)to attract loans and investments into the State. Adapalm is by far, the largest oil I’ll in West Africa. With this and many others, it is now clear that Governor Hope Uzodinma is leading the pack as far as development in the South East is concerned. According to Governor Hope Uzodinma’s vision, he really embarked on rural transformation, urban renewal, roads drainage system, education, health, etcetera. One of the principles of leadership is that the leader should refuse to let obstacles stop him so divert from his course. Some of the factors that can enable you attain your goals in life can be controlled and some cannot. Despite some obvious challenges and obstacles, Uzodinma has been able to control most of them. His developmental vision is enigmatic. In just two (2) years, he has turned Imo state to a workshop.Despite insecurity crisis, Uzodinma and his team are really wallowing through hell to deliver. Great success usually comes at a great prize. What comes cheaply usually has little value. Successful people in every field of human endeavors are those who cannot be stopped. No one can get to anywhere without problem.The world is not fair, so do not be surprised if you’re not treated fairly. Every bad thing that happens to you can either make you bitter or make you better. Bitter people never win. Determine that you must get better and that every mountain you must climb is there to make you better. That is the story of Hope Uzodinma, and by extension, the true story of Imo State.