ABUJA – As permutations for the 2023 general elections heats up, lead Pastor of God’s City International Church (GCIC), Abuja, Matthew Morakinyo, has said Nigerians cannot afford to ignore the divine intervention of God in picking leaders with conscience that would govern the country. Morakinyo made the assertion on Monday, in Abuja, while briefing the press on its forthcoming Power Touch Night scheduled to hold at the Velodrome, National Stadium Abuja. He said only God who knows the heart of a man can give us a leader that will heal the land. “On our part, we have been praying and we continue to pray and God will answer us. IGR: FCT Losses N600bn Annually To Real Estate Sector, Onuh Hearken To Stakeholders, Inaugurate NDDC Board, Group Tasks… “God is the creator of man, and he is the one that knows the mind of man so it is better to turn to God who knows man and to ask him to give us a leader. It is God that gives leadership. God will give us a leader of his choice,” he said. He said the church is one of the leading Pentecostal churches in Abuja which came to existence on the 1 of May 2016, by one of the most sought-after Pastors in the person of Pastor Morakinyo. “Ever since the church started, GCIC has been having an overwhelming number of programmes, from the Sunday service which has 4 different services and over 3000 people in attendance to its other powerful weekly programmes. “Power Touch is one out of the other programmes they do in God’s City International Church. The Senior Pastors of the Church, Pastor Matthew and Pastor (Mrs) Mary Morakinyo were led by the Spirit of the Lord, to host the Special Abuja Power Touch Night that will take place at the Velodrome, National Stadium Abuja, On Friday 18 February 2022, by 9 pm. “Residents of Abuja and its environs will see the God of Possibilities at work, as the programme promise to be powerful, spiritually fulfilling and the attendees are to expect deliverance, healing, rescue, restoration, mobile fire, early satisfaction, answers to Prayers and amazing testimonies,” he added. POLL He equally said the peace and security which has eluded the country will be restored at God’s appointed time and season, but that the church will keep praying for that restoration.