ABUJA – The House of Representatives’ Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Tuesday called on all Nigerians to contribute their quota to defeat youth unemployment in the country. Gbajabiamila made the call while declaring open a 3-day workshop on entrepreneurial development, leadership and reorientation for National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members in the National Assembly. The programme was organised by Gbaja Professional Volunteer Network, a foundation driven by the body of Aides of the Speaker. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… Gbajabiamila, represented by his Chief of Staff, Hon. Sanusi Rikiji, said that it was vital to defeat unemployment among youths who represent over 60 per cent of the population. He said the initiative is in line with the Legislative Agenda of the 9th House of Representatives which has been innovating robust reforms in policies across the planks. The lawmaker said it included security, infrastructure, economic and human capital developments, among others. “We strongly recognise that all hands must be on deck to actualise the quantum of positive impact we all desire in our country. “Over the last two and a half years, we have successfully carried out direct interventions on education, healthcare and welfare, impacting tens of thousands of pupils, children, women and families, across the country. POLL “In the next two days, we will be advancing entrepreneurial development through capacity building, encouragement, enlightenment of the youth population, through your good selves here. “This remains a vital ingredient toward defeating the rising scourge of unemployment, poverty and lack of productivity in the country, especially among youths. “In the same token, it is worthy of note, the veritable platform the NYSC scheme has provided for our youths to be pooled to contribute to national unity,” he said. The Speaker stated that having identified the general huge gap in the knowledge base of youths in creating wealth, driving the economy and shaping the polity, the programmers were designed to be handled by seasoned experts. He urged the corps members to “pay full attention and listen with an open mind to unlearn, learn and relearn.” Convention: S/South APC Stakeholders Demand National Secretary… Senate Approves Six New Law Schools Across Geo-Political Zones The Clerk to the National Assembly, Arch Amos Olatunde Ojo, commended the organisers of the workshop for the initiative. He said that he was happy that the plight of the youth was being taken into account in recent times. Ojo advised youths to shun all forms of violence and resist any temptation to engage in thuggery in the coming 2023 elections. He called on youths to take advantage of the ‘Not-Too-Young-To-Run’ Act, and venture into politics for the future of the country. Also, Mr Lookman Lawal, Gbaja Professional Volunteer Network, said that the foundation was interested in helping to improve the socio-economic well-being of the people. He noted that the intervention was especially in human capital development, education, health and social development. “Unfortunately, across the country, today, a lot of young persons are daily in the news for the wrong reasons. “This is ranging from yahoo-yahoo, kidnapping, banditry, lotto addiction, alcohol addiction and drug abuse, which is believed to be taking a negative toll on 4 out of 10 young persons; a very disturbing trend. “The good news here right now is that if you are here listening, you can start from this moment to make the right choices, you can turn a new leaf and you can successfully rewrite your story, with God on your side,” he said. On her part, Mrs Dick-Irenabere Ufuoma, the Deputy Director, Community Development Service (CDS) in NYSC, commended the organisers of the workshop. She said that the workshop was a post-camp event aimed at consolidating the on-camp entrepreneurial programmes embarked upon by the scheme. Speaking on behalf of the corps members, Mr Olamide Ojo, said that the workshop would push the participants to a new level of progress and self-development.