Princess Uchechukwu Umoh, Managing Director of Habib Yoghurt Industries Limited, Super Dealer, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the impact of product knowledge in business, among other issues. Excerpts: Can you talk about what you do? We are Super Dealers for Habib Yoghurt Industries Limited. We started as dealers and after three years, graduated to sub-dealers and today we are super dealers. High Cost Of Food In Nigeria Is Caused By Insecurity – Ononye Govt Should Reduce Import Duty On Health Related Products – Ukor The business was started by my elder brother who was the chairman, Amobi Patrick Emekwuo, but that position is currently occupied by my husband, Fredrick Umoh. After school and there was no job, my elder brother spoke to one of his friends who was residing in Abuja, who had contact with Habib Industries Limited. We actually started the business from the Ago area of Isolo, and then we spread to Jakande, Amuwo Odofin, Ire Akari and Isolo. As a person, I like challenges and so when my brother told me that it would involve input from me like mixing the fura, granular and other things, I didn’t see that as a problem. One of the representatives of the company was brought in on the day of the opening of the Ago office outlet to assist with training. We mounted the reception where we used it for blending and today the rest is history. How long have you been in this business? POLL I have run this business for six years and by the grace of God we got an award when the business was three years old, as the third best dealer in the whole federation. What earned you the award? As a person I want excellence in whatever thing that I do. When I wake up in the morning I hand over my activities for the day to God. At inception I was the only staff doing virtually everything, I was the salesperson, the operation staff, I was everything. I learnt on the job. I will say that I am a business minded person and very diligent in whatever I do. When customers visit the outlet, they would always inquire if I was Hausa. They will go as far as asking me why I had to go into such a business mainly operated by people from the North. They would even tell you that an average Hausa person is not clean and that fura is not hygienically prepared. I had to start orientation with my customers. Inflation Is Killing Businesses In Nigeria – Ogbuehi People Should Take Advantage Of Technology To Enhance Their… I educated them on the health benefits of yoghurt. I can boldly tell you that Habib yoghurt is the best in Nigeria. I am not saying this because I market the brand. I took time to tell them the health benefits of yoghurt, fura and the other products that we market. People were shocked to know the health benefits of the products. I realised that yoghurt can heal ulcers, so I let them understand all of that. In the course of this business I read very widely and I was able to discover the health benefits of these products with confirmation from people who used them. I must say that yoghurt is one of the best foods that you can think of, even the fetus in its mother’s womb has so much to benefit from yoghurt. Like I mentioned earlier, because some people believe that Hausas are not clean, they tend to stay away from their food. I had to disabuse their minds. I told them that as an Igbo woman married to an Akwa Ibom man, they should understand that I would not offer them something unhygienic, since I also consume the products. They would come into the shop and inspect, and to their surprise they would not smell any ‘nunu’, that is another name for fresh milk. A medical doctor attached to the Nigerian Navy walked into my shop and said that he has been seeing the sign board, because he is familiar with the fura being a Kebbi State born man. He couldn’t hide his feelings when he said that the place was very clean. There were no flies which are normally attracted to ‘Fura de nunu’ as it is popularly called. He asked me where I was from and quickly said that he was sure I was not Hausa. He said that he had to stop taking yoghurt because of the environment of some outlets. I have a lot of customers, even the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) officials expressed their pleasure with our standard and I have some of them as customers. I took time to spread the news that the products were not basically ‘Hausa’ as they were made to believe. It got to the point that people started calling me ‘Madam Habib’, that is part of the success story. How do you cope making these sales in spite of the state of the economy where people would normally go for staple food like, rice, garri, first, since they believe that yoghurt is for the rich? It is not news that Nigerians feed more on starchy food because of hardship. They may say that they cannot afford some food which can help balance their diet. I understand all of that. I believe that what kept my customers coming is the fact that I educated them on the product; I also have good relationship with them. When they come, I would greet them as if they are kings, which they are, anyway. I engage them in conversations and so the relationship grew. I also educated them on the health benefits. When I visited one of our outlets, which I do on routine basis, a customer walked past and I greeted him with a smile, he came back and said that my smile was captivating. He made inquiry about the products because he had not used them before. I told him the health benefits. I particularly told him that yoghurt takes care of stress and sicknesses like high blood pressure and stroke could be averted consuming yoghurt. He bought the product after the discussion. Each time I visited any of our branches and mount the reception, our sales for that day usually rose by over 30 percent. You need product knowledge to grow sales. You did mention that you started the business has expanded, so many staff do you have as of today? We have six staff on monthly paid salaries. We also have indirect staff as well, who render one form of services or the other. Do you provide outdoor services? No, we don’t do that yet because of logistics. You know that you will need good cooling facilities and some other facilities that would go with it. You know that it is almost 100 percent natural, so you cannot keep them outside the refrigerator for long because they don’t have preservatives. Our brand of yoghurt in particular is not like any other yoghurt you see in the market, where the expiration dates are written in them. If you keep our brand outside in an environment that is not cool for 12 hours it will go sour. It has little or no preservative so it cannot stand heat. I am saying that it is close to 100 percent natural. It is supplied to us from Zaria, in Kaduna State from Habib cooling vans. Do you have any challenges running this business? Our products must be preserved in refrigerators. That is the major challenge apart from other logistics issues. I must say that running costs are high because there is no government power supply. We spend so much buying fuel to power our generators. We need interventions in the area of electricity power supply. Government must do something about providing electricity to help Nigerian businesses. Where do you want to see yourself in the next five years? I have the franchise from Habib Industries Limited to market the products now. I would want to have opened my own factory where I will be producing yoghurt in the next five years