The nation’s equity prices closed higher in the midst of continued volatility and geopolitical tension that had rattled the global financial markets, thereby halting the two consecutive weeks of negative outing and side-trending on renewed buying interest in blue chip companies and positive reaction to impressive dividend payout from United capital and others like MTNN and Nigerian Breweries to sustain the current tempo in the market. Despite, the seeming calmness and sideways movement of the NGX All Share index over the past three weeks is a sign that the market is still awaiting a trigger in form of corporate actions, as the market has brokered out the recent resistance level of 47,335.72 to test 47,378.34 points on a very high traded volume. Just as NGX index action refused to breakdown its 47,000 mark, ahead of more 2021 full year audited financials and the expected dividend announcement, which is likely to stimulate demand for stocks. As a trader or investor, knowing how to benefit from the current market trend and situation, considering the earnings season, rallying oil prices in the international market and the crisis in Russia and Ukraine. Stanbic IBTC 2021FY: Soaring LDR, 44.4% Loan Growth, High… ETI 2021FY: Trading At 105% Rebate To Current Price On Strong… It’s obvious that market dynamics and trend are changing from what we have experienced over the past years, especially with the post pandemic shift. As portfolio with 50/50 stock and bond is costing you money now as the market is on sideways movement in the midst volatility and corporate earnings expectation, this is likely to trigger a big rally depending on final payout of listed companies on the exchange. The trading strategies that will help you to navigate this current market trends, are below, learn and understand how to use specific technical analysis tools, which Investdata Technical Tools Box will make it easier for you to understand and use it effective to enhance your trading results and bottom. Try and get it, if you have not order. Understand price cycle, set-up and price target levels in stocks and sectors to identify strategic entry and exit points for your trades. Identify trend change and move your money or capital into defensive stocks and sectors. Finally, follow assets and money flows, by following the money, you become part of the new emerging trends and profit from any market condition. POLL As the bull resurfaced during the week, the share prices of United Capital, Academy Press, Niger Insurance, RT Briscoe, SCOA, May & Baker, among others hit new 52-week high. To navigate the New Year profitably, order for Investdata’s video on Technical Toolbox for Buy & Sell Decision Home Study Pack to enhance trading results and boost your bottom line. Also, to up your game in equity trading and investing, understanding the key to trading price and index actions will go a long way to make the difference in your trading results. Movement Of NGXASI It was a bullish week of side-trending, as NGX index action attempted to breakout the recent resistance on a high traded volume, after recording four sessions of up market and a day of down market, thereby short lived its two successive weeks of bear transition on position taking. Positive Economic Data, Better Than Expected Corporate Earnings… February Outlook: Expect Volatility, Mixed Sessions, On… Trading opened the week on a positive note, gaining 0.08%, an extension of the previous Friday’s buying interest which persisted until Tuesday when the index inched up 0.09%. The trend was halted at the midweek when the market lost 0.08% on profit taking in medium cap and blue-chips stocks, but rebounded on Thursday and Friday after gaining 0.14% and 0.16% respectively, on accumulation of position, which brought the week’s total gain to 0.40%, against the previous week’s negative position of 0.13%. Consequently, the key performance index gained 187.94 basis points, closing the week at 47,328.42bps, after touching an intra-week high of 47,328.34 points, from its lows of 47,139.80bps. Recall that the week started with the index at 47,140.48bps. During the week also, market capitalisation rose by N101bn, closing at N25.50tr, compared to the previous week’s N25.41tr, which also represented a 0.40% appreciation in value. As usual, the week top gainers table was dominated by low and medium cap stocks, owing to the continued demand for dividend paying stocks, as players took advantage of the correction to buy into the better-than-expected numbers hitting the market. There were also the impacts of sectorial fundamental news as oil sector became the toast for investors as oil prices remained upbeat. We note that the NGX Index and price actions reveal positive sentiments, a situation that reflected in major sectoral indexes that closed positive, due to capital gain recorded by Zenith Bank, GTCO Seplat, Ucap and other that pushed the index higher. Market breadth for the week remained positive on a high traded volume as a result of position taking, with the onset of corporate actions, leaving investors pleasantly surprised, even as the released numbers have so far given insights into what is expected in terms of dividend. This is likely to support the recovery in the short to long-run, while investors increase their positions in the hope of higher dividend payouts and yields, as revealed by numbers and payout announced by directors of United Capital, just as fixed income market returns remain negative, despite the recently announced improvement in inflation rate. During the week, advancers outnumbered decliners in the ratio of 44:22, on buying sentiments, as revealed by the investor sentiment report showing a 79% buy volume and 21% sell position. Money Flow Index inched up at 68.24bps from the previous week’s 67.60 points, an indication that funds enter the market. NGX’s positive sentiment and rekindled buying interest for the period under review, supported strong and bullish signal on weekly chart, while momentum indicators were positive and mixed, on a very high traded volume, as the NGXASI still trades above the 47,000 points to test 47,3378.34. The candlestick formation, at the end of the week, revealed buyers are in charge at a time the release of more 2021 audited financials continue to give direction. The candlestick pattern indicates a possible reversal or continuation of trend, depending on market forces in the new week. Meanwhile, market recovery is still strong. Also, all eyes are on fixed income market yields and oil prices to further support market fundamentals and attract liquidity to the equity space. The NGX at this point is creating new buying opportunities for dividend income investors. Mixed Sectoral Indices Sectorial performance index for the week were mixed, as the NGX Oil/Gas, Insurance and Banking closed higher by 3.89%, 0.73% and 0.21% respectively, while the NGX Consumer Goods led the decliners after losing 1.06%, followed by Industrial goods with 0.01%. Activities in volume and value terms were down as players traded 1.67bn shares worth N19.48bn, compared to previous week’s 1.71bn units valued at N30.760bn. This volume was driven by Financial Services, Conglomerates and Consumer goods stocks, Transcorp, United Capital, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Fidelity Bank. RT Briscoe and Niger Insurance were the best performing stocks for the week, gaining 53.85% and 46.67% respectively, closing at N0.94 and N0.28per share respectively on market sentiment and forces. On the flip side, Ellah Lakes and Juli Pharms lost 9.88% and 9.76% respectively, at N3.83 and N0.74 per share, purely on selloffs. Outlook for the week We expect positive and bullish sentiment to continue in the new week, as more dividend announcement and audited earnings reports hit the market, in the midst of the positive momentum and profit booking, as investors and traders react to numbers and expected dividend declaration. We note that income investors continue buying into dividend-paying stocks, ahead of February early filers like Zenith Bank, Wapco, Nestle, Access Bank, Dangote Cement. On the strength of the impressive numbers seen so far and the expected payout ratio, funds are likely to flow towards the better investment yields or returns. We note also that funds and portfolio managers continue to take position on the strength of the Q4 numbers released, ahead of the 2021 audited financials. For now, many stocks remain within their buy ranges to attract funds into the equity space. Also, investors will continue tracking yields movement in the fixed income market. Last week’s high volume suggests that institutional investors are gradually returning to the market. It is important also that oil price continues to rally in the international market, trading above $91 per barrel; corporate actions, as well as the 2021 audited numbers that are around the corner. Meanwhile, the home study packs on Comprehensive Stock Market trading course video, Stock Market Analysis Beyond Fundamental & Technical Analysis, 2022 Actionable Trading Plan and Opportunities in Q1, INVEST 2022 Traders & Investors Summit materials and 10 Golden Stocks for 2022, Strategies and How to invest profitably in this Changing Market Dynamics/ Recession, Mastering Earnings Season For Profitable Investing and Trading in any market situation/ cycles, Life Beyond COVID 19 Investment Opportunities In The Stock Market are now available. To obtain your pack send ‘Yes’ or ‘Stock’ to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.