…Northern Group Kicks Against Zoning Presidency To South …Avoid Issue Of Zoning As Criterion For Leadership Selection In 2023- Lamido ABUJA – Ahead of 2023 general elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday insisted that they will be guided by fairness, equity and justice. Euro Surges As Record Inflation Adds Pressure On ECB Court Adjourns Hearing Of $130m Suit Against SAIPEM Speaking while receiving a letter from the Northern Advocates for Good Governance (NAFGG), on behalf of Iyorcha Ayu, the National Chairman of the party, Ibrahim Abdullahi, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary said, “yes, that is what we believe in.” Insisting that the party has learned sufficient lessons in time past over zoning of Presidential tickets and is now trying to do something differently, Abdullahi said that the party is working hard to put things right, starting with the zoning of its presidential ticket. He said: “PDP has learned sufficient lessons in the time past and we are trying to do something in a different form. “The pains and suffering of Nigerians, these are things the national leadership of the party is doing to put things right.” He emphasized that the PDP believes firmly in the principle of equity and fairness. POLL While presenting the group’s letter to the representative of the National Chairman, Mallam Mahmoud Mohammed Katun. National Coordinator, Northern Advocates for Good Governance said they will vehemently kick against “the illogical pressure being mounted by some interest groups and self-serving politicians, who are insisting that the presidency of Nigeria in 2023 must be zoned to the Southern part of the country. “For the avoidance of doubt, nobody has the right to exclude any segment of this country from aspiring for the highest office in the land, especially segments of the North that have never had the opportunity of occupying the prime position. “From 1999 to 2023, the South would have ruled Nigeria for 14 years, while the North, for 10 years. “Why should we then prioritize the South to take over when the North has a shortfall? “Giving priority to zones in the North that haven’t had the opportunity should be done to guarantee equity, fairness and justice. [BREAKING] AFCON: Mane Scores As Senegal Beat Burkina Faso To… Hike In Fees: Senate Moves To Avert Impending Crisis In Tertiary… “But even more importantly, it is our considered position that political parties should prioritize experience, competence and capacity in choosing or zoning their presidential tickets.” Meanwhile, the former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, has appealed to political stakeholders across the country to avoid the issue of zoning as a criterion for leadership selection in 2023. Instead, he opined that Nigerians with a proven track record of trustworthiness who also have a national outlook like Gov. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto state should be encouraged to pick up the challenge of running for the position of President of the country. Lamido made the calls on Tuesday when he received Gov. Tambuwal and his entourage who visited him in his Bamaina country home in Birnin Kudu local government area of Jigawa state in the Governor’s first leg of nationwide consultations on whether or not he should seek to run for the position of President under the PDP. The PDP chieftain, who was also one-time minister of foreign affairs, expressed concern that all previous efforts made to stabilize the country has been bastardized in recent times by the worrisome upsurge of ethnicity and religious schisms. According to him, these trends needs to be reversed, pointing out that what is needed is competent leaders with sterling qualities such as Tambuwal. “Our son here, is like me. We have similar and parallel positions in government. I have even held more sensitive positions than him,” he said He added that he’s “looking forward to having the Governor as a worthy successor, who is eminently qualified to run for the highest office in the land should he chose to do so.” He further said that he is ready to support Gov. Tambuwal if he opts to seek PDP’s ticket to be its flag bearer provided he will be a “pan Nigerian that will be just.”