ILORIN – Tunde Ashaolu the Publicity Secretary to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Kwara State chapter, may have succumbed to a failing heart condition that prevented him from a late Saturday night outing, going by an independent investigation conducted by Daily Independent through his associates who saw him before he died. Ashaolu, who recently celebrated his 47th birthday, was said to have slumped and died on Sunday before he got medical attention at the hospital. Details, however, remain scanty on his death, but it was learnt that Ashaolu had refused a last Saturday night entreaty from friends for a late-night outing, complaining of being too tired. Edo South 2023: YEPP Counters PDP Chieftain, Insists On Zoning Alleged Sharp Practices: PDP Chieftain Demands Probe Of Green… He had then shown distress after which he was rushed to the hospital where he was confirmed dead. As also learnt, the deceased party chieftain was said to have lost his elder sister about three years earlier living an ageing and ailing father. In a similar development, the Correspondents Chapel press corps made up of journalists from all national media in Kwara State, has commiserated with the People Democratic Party (PDP) Kwara State Chapter over the demise of the party’s Publicity Secretary. The chapel in a statement signed by its chairman and secretary, Abdulhakeem Garba and Kayode Abdulazeez respectively, sympathised with the family, PDP, and entire kwarans, described the late Tunde Ashaolu as “an astute media personality, a man of the people who increased the media presence of his party in the state and Nigeria in the short period he manned the position”. Back in his hometown, Odo-Owa in Oke-Ero Local Government of Kwara State, the late Tunde Ashaolu is being sorely missed as he was reputed to be a very humble, progressive-minded son of the soil who was always counted among the patriotic citizens ever supporting any progress aimed at moving the community forward. POLL Even in the Church, he was an active member who was always ready to contribute his all to God’s work.