Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said that his administration’s commitment to rendering quality service to God and humanity, as well as making life better for the residents. Sanwo-Olu stated this at the 2022 Inter-Denominational Divine Service (IDDS), themed: “Choose You This Day Whom You Will Serve,” held at The  Apostolic Church, LAWNA Headquarters in Ketu, Lagos, on Saturday. Sanwo-Olu, who is the grand-patron of the event, said the programme afforded the congregation the opportunity to gather and give thanks to the Almighty God. LASG Will Continue To Support CAN, Better Life – Sanwo-Olu BREAKING: Law School Lagos Campus On Fire Stating that rendering service to humanity is also rendering service to God, Sanwo-Olu said: “As Christians, there’s no better service to God than the one you render to humanity. It’s only through this that you can serve God. There’s no better service than that given to mankind.” He acknowledged the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and its leadership for taking the body to another level, adding: We thank God for what He is doing in Lagos State. There’s every reason to thank God, for the CAN members, their prayers and words of encouragement.” He noted that this administration pursues a uniform front, without any religious division, adding that the state will continue to support unity. Sanwo-Olu said that the unity existing in Lagos State makes it a useful platform to propagate the gospel.Chairman, CAN, Lagos State chapter. Bishop Steven Adegite said that it’s part of parents’ responsibility to prepare the Youths to serve the Lord and the nation wholeheartedly. POLL He said that Lagosians must be prepared to serve God, adding: “We must do all we can to build for God.”Adegbite commended Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration for managing the pandemic proactively, his administration’s developmental strides, support for religious groups, among others. Saying that one good turn deserves another, Adegite expressed hope that there would be a chance to replicate what is happening in Lagos State in Nigeria. The cleric also charged Nigerians to obtain their permanent voter’s cards, as well as perform their civic responsibilities in the next general elections. Commending the leadership of the state government for the harmony existing among them, Adegite urged all to support Sanwo-Olu for a second term. “The church in Lagos will continue to pay for the government. Let us register and get our voter’s cards,” he said. Passing Out Parade: NYSC Charges Corps Members To Remain Worthy… 2023: Why Sanwo-Olu Deserves Second Term – Lawan In his Sermon, Most Rev. Dr. Alfred Adewale Martin represented by Rev. Fr. Jacob Usman, said there was a need for the people and leaders to embrace unity and fidelity in their lives, the state, as well as render service to humanity. Revd Martin added that service demands commitment, devotion, discipline and holiness to worship God despiteall challenges, as the people can not serve two masters at the same time.