Insurance penetration recently received a boost as the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) and FSD Africa have come together to launch what they tagged BimaLab, an accelerator programme designed to boost the development and adoption of digital solutions for the insurance sector, in efforts to increase penetration. BimaLab Nigeria is expected to proffer solutions to problems in the insurance market by educating, nurturing and promoting innovators and Insurtech start-ups. The BimaLab Accelerator Programme, which draws strength from its success in Kenya, aims to lay emphasis on local experience to provide Nigeria with a competitive and attractive start-up accelerator programme. NIA Mulls Export Credit Guarantee Insurance, Political Risks For… Identify Needs Of Customers, Develop Solutions To Deliver… Elias Omondi, Senior Manager, Risk Regulations in FSD Africa said the National Insurance Commission of Nigeria (NAICOM) and FSD Africa launched the BimaLab Nigeria Insurtech Accelerator Programme, an accelerator programme designed to boost the development and adoption of digital solutions for the insurance sector. Mr Elias Omondi, Senior Manager, Risk Regulations in FSD Africa, said 10 companies will be selected to participate in the programme that will provide them with the expertise, resources, and support to develop and scale market-ready solutions that bring social and/or commercial value to Nigeria’s insurance sector. Emordi blamed little knowledge of the insurance industry and low income as factors that have affected the rate of insurance penetration which currently stands at three per cent across Africa mass market. He said FSD Africa is improving insurance coverage, through accelerated programmes in Kenya and Ghana, which is expected to also cater for the needs of populations beyond their borders of origination. Kelvin Massingham, Director Risk and Resilience, FSD Africa Director – Risk and Resilience, FSD Africa also speaking, said the programme will enhance the development of a vibrant ecosystem of start-ups; through collaboration with corporate partners, investors and research institutions to accelerate and scale innovation in the insurance industry in Nigeria.