LAGOS  – The Public Relations Consultants Association of Nigeria (PRCAN), the sectoral trade group authorised by the NIPR Bye-Law to regulate the business of Public Relations Consulting in Nigeria, is set to announce far-reaching reforms that would help protect the businesses of clients and companies in the sector. This was contained in a communique issued at the end of a two-day retreat organised for Chief Executive Officers and Leaders of PRCAN member-firms, held from Friday, 11th to Sunday, 13th February 2022, at Epe Resort and Spa, Lagos. Announcing the outcome of the well-attended retreat themed “Building Resilience for Growth-Rethinking How You Do Business”, PRCAN President, stated that members of the association unanimously agreed and adopted the PRCAN Practice Standards 2022 for implementation during the retreat. How FCMB Makes Home Ownership Easy For Customers Taiwan Expresses Readiness To Improve Trade Relation With… Opayemi noted that the PRCAN Practice Standards 2022, expected to be launched within the next few weeks, would provide ground rules for improved public relations consulting practice and bring better value to corporate and public sector clients who engage the services of public relations consulting firms in Nigeria. Part of the reforms, according to him, is the need for clients to engage the services of PRCAN certified consultancies given the opportunities and institutional protection they stand to gain should issues arise in the contractual engagement. “Should issues arise, a client can now make recourse to an organ of PRCAN for redress or intervention. This ensures that clients will get full value for money. Similarly, PRCAN member-firms will enjoy full institutional support from PRCAN and the NIPR as regulators when these reforms come into effect. The package is a win-win for all”, Opayemi assured. The PRCAN President explained that the reforms in the PRCAN Practice Standards 2022 would also help prospective corporate and public sector clients understand the 21 practice areas they can seek professional services from within the circle of legally recognized public relations firms in Nigeria. He admonished government and corporate institutes engaging the services of public relations firms to demand their PRCAN membership certificate as a requisite minimum in addition to other prerequisites the PRCAN Practice Standards 2022 will make mandatory for such engagements.