“Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape cal­umny.” – William Shakespeare, 1564-1616, VANGUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS p 25. I read General Abdulsalami Abu­bakar’s explanation regarding late Chief M.K.O Abiola’s death, and the report prompted me to set aside the article already written for today in order to attend to this ur­gent matter. It is urgent because the General’s statements are bound to elicit the knee-jerk reaction of those Nigerians, beneficiaries of Abiola’s generosity, who still want to contin­ue to peddle the fiction that he was poisoned and killed by the military administration in 1998. Nothing can be further from the truth. General Abubakar will be subject­ed to attacks from those who prefer to cling to their pet theories about the cause of the death of MKO because that is what the masses want to hear. Unfortunately, for the rumour mer­chants, the truth, long hidden, and now revealed by Abdulsalami should lay to rest their favourite meal ticket. But, it won’t. If anything, they will dou­ble their attacks on the retired General and all those who dare to support his claim of innocence on Abiola’s death. Lazy politicians, Presidential candi­dates and others seeking office in the South West will soon be falling over themselves debunking the statement without offering any proof of their own that Abiola was killed. Nigeria’s Phenomenal Corruption Advancements Results Don’t Lie! (2) “Those who deal in ideas, if they are wise, will welcome attack. Only a peaceful passage should dismay them; for it proves that the ideas do not affect anyone very much.” Profes­sor J.K Galbraith, 1908-2006, VBQ p 97. That is why those who know the truth should come out and support the General from the unwarranted campaign of calumny. It will not be easy. It might also require a bit of courage. But, it must be done – if we want to leave behind the correct history of that period for posterity. I am accustomed to controversies; but I will always stand by the truths known to me and not allow the noise of the ignorant masses to sway me. Let me start by declaring upfront that I have never met General Abu­bakar or late Chief MKO Abiola in my life. None of them did me a favour which must be repaid; none did me any wrong which must be avenged by writing this article. Like most Ni­gerians, I got to know both of them through what is available in the me­dia. Unlike most Nigerians, however, I have supplemented my knowledge about them with reading books, oth­er materials and most importantly by conducting an interview with a credible witness regarding the cause of Abiola’s death. This is not a senti­mental affair. It is based on evidence. Let me repeat again, most of those who started believing that Abiola was deliberately killed and who still cling to that fiction are people who were deprived of a regular meal tick­et when MKO died. As long as he was alive, even in detention, there was hope that he could be sprung loose and return to spray them with cash – as he was known to do. His death put an end to all that. Who Was Abiola And Who Was Gen. Abubakar? The question, which will be briefly answered, is pertinent for the sake of those who were either not born or too young in 1998 to know what the controversy is all about. That is why old people, like me, still hang around news rooms to provide background information about actors involved in any drama concerning our coun­try long ago. Don’t expect too many details. Abiola was, at one time, regarded as the richest man in Nigeria; he was extremely generous with his money; helped a lot of people. But, he was not a self-made man. The military made him extremely wealthy by awarding contracts, often inflated, to ITT Nige­ria Limited, the American company he headed as Chairman/Managing Director. Some of those telephone contracts remain abandoned till to­day; but, the money is gone. IBB was his greatest benefactor. POLL He ran for the Presidency in 1993 after General Babangida, his bosom friend annulled the previous primary which would have resulted in a differ­ent person emerging as President in 1992. He won the election overwhelm­ingly; but, the election was annulled by Babangida citing reasons too nu­merous to list here. After a brief tenure of the Inter­im National Government, headed by Chief Ernest Shonekan, who died recently, General Abacha seized power in 1993. Abiola went into exile while demanding for his mandate to be restored. He was lured back into Nigeria by Abacha; he was arrested and detained. Abacha died in June 1998; and in­explicably, Abiola also died soon after. Abubakar was the Military Head of State when Abiola died – still in de­tention. General Abdulsalami Abubakar was not a member of Abacha’s inner cult of military officers who first ter­rorised their fellow soldiers; before embarking on victimising civilians. Except for General Ironsi, I have lived with all the military Heads of State. Those who talk of benevolent dictatorship have a point. Gowon, Mohammed, Obasanjo, Babangida and Abubakar could be called “be­nevolent dictators”. Abubakar was the most benevolent of all. They at­tempted to rule by persuasion; and if that failed by offering incentives (bribes if you wish). Only when their rule is threatened do they resort to brute force. By contrast Buhari and Abacha were draconian and mur­derous. But, the most blood thirsty of all was Abacha. More civilians, including journalists, were killed during Abacha’s rule than any oth­er government. His death was, to me, Divine deliverance of Nigeria from worse atrocities planned. Abacha was determined Abiola would not be set free as long as he was alive. Then came Abdulsalami. He inherited Abiola in detention, still claiming his mandate, five years af­ter all the supporting organs – Gover­nors, Senators, House of Representa­tive Members – had been disbanded. The first assignment for the new re­gime was to form a new government. The military formations would have to change and new advisers appoint­ed. What to do with Abiola was an important consideration; but, it was not the most urgent; much as Abio­la’s family would like. At any rate, his release must follow a process which was yet to be determined. And, the conditions needed to be spelt out. Abubakar was still busy with this monumental task when Abiola sud­denly died. Africa And The Return Of Men On Horses Back Rice O Compatriots: Dissecting Emefiele’s Rice Pyramids (1) What Killed Abiola? “Abiola was not killed; he died after falling ill” – Abdulsalami. Newspaper Reports, January 24, 2022. Several national newspapers published the statement credited to General Abubakar on Monday. Let me state categorically that it was the truth and nothing but the truth. Sev­eral reasons account for my position. First, Abdulsalami, unlike Abacha, had right from the first day he be­came Head of State decided that his tenure would be short. He was not ready to contest the position with Abiola or anyone else. He wanted to go home as soon as possible. And, the end showed it. He remains the second military Head of State to leave on due date – after Obasanjo in 1979. That, however, is the minor reason why Abubakar stands exonerated. The main reason is the autopsy. Autopsy Report “You cannot bully reality.” VBQ p 208. What Abiola’s family and their camp followers have been doing since 1998 amounts to attempts to bully reality. They want us to collec­tively substitute rumours for facts. They conveniently forget that there was an autopsy which established the cause of Abiola’s death. Below is what I know about the autopsy. Abiola was not buried immediate­ly according to Muslim custom. An autopsy was performed at the Uni­versity of Lagos. The result was to be sealed for ten years; meaning until 2008. The examination into the cause of death was witnessed by Abiola’s personal doctor. It was also witnessed by Professor Attah, OON, the senior brother to Obong Victor Attah – for­mer Governor of Akwa Ibom State. Professor Attah, was/is regarded as one of the top ten Pathologists world­wide – a Professor of Professors. I went to Uyo to interview Profes­sor Attah in connection with a book I am writing about their father Bassey Attah, MON, when the conversation drifted to Abiola’s death. Prof con­firmed to me that the autopsy report declared that Abiola died of natural causes; something having to do with his heart. Professor Attah is still alive today and living in Uyo. Anybody in­terested in the truth can contact him. He is a courageous man who will not be intimidated by anybody. As for me, speaking the truth on an occasion such as this, is not just a duty; it is a great pleasure. General Abubakar can take solace in know­ing that there are people who believe him – even if small in number. Sai Baba, Next Time Call After The Match Please Every time Baba calls our sports­men before a tournament, they have lost. Baba calling before tournaments is becoming a Kiss of Death.