BAUCHI – Stakeholders of Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Local government Area of Bauchi state have called on the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Barrister Yakubu Dogara, to hasten up in declaring his next political ambition for the 2023 general elections as there is still time. The stakeholders who comprised of his Coordinators in the three LGAs of Bogoro/Dass /Tafawa Balewa which make the Federal Constituency stated this during an emergency stakeholders meeting held at Zwall, headquarters of the Federal Constituency on Saturday. The coordinators, who were unanimous, commended Dogara for his outstanding performance in the National Assembly throughout his tenure, urging him to urgently tell them which direction he is heading in the next general elections because according to them, it is high time they knew what to do to support his political sojourn in terms of mobilization. APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns The Spokesman of the Coordinators, Samaila Musa Boto, said that they have come a long way with the former Speaker and are ready to go with him anywhere he is going politically, adding that they are interested in him, telling them which direction he intends to go. He stated that all of the Coordinators have been working behind the scenes preparing the path of the 2023 General elections but that they need the former Speaker to make a public declaration as to which direction he wants to go. Samaila Musa Boto reminded the people that Yakubu Dogara is a politician who has the interest of the people at heart, pointing out that he has done what no politician in the area has done, the more reason he has been winning elections in the area. “Yakubu Dogara is our political party and we are ready to follow him anywhere he is heading. All we are waiting for is for him to just tell us his direction. Dogara is a politician that is unbeatable in the area because no politician can stand to challenge him for any elective position,” a Coordinator for Dass LGA, Kala Katanga said. The Women Coordinator for Dass LGA, Mrs Amina Sale, said that they are calling on Yakubu Dogara to immediately declare where he is going in 2023 so that they can intensify their campaigns for him, stressing that wherever he goes, they are going with him because he is their political party.. POLL “The last by-election for the State House of Assembly which APC won was a demonstration of the political strength of Yakubu Dogara, he used his political popularity to defeat the candidate of the PDP who was strongly backed by the government,” She said Other speakers included the Coordinators for Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa LGAs who joined in the call on the former Speaker to urgently tell them which direction they should go agreeing that even if he will not contest for any office, he should introduce his replacement to them.