***Dispatch Nomination Forms To Zones ABUJA – Barring unforeseen developments, the governors of All Progressives Congress APC) controlled States will this night conclude decision on which zones get what in the new APC National Working Committee (NWC) ahead of the February 26 National Convention of the party. The governors been meeting on the thorny issue through the week amid accusation that the Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC is pushing a self-succession agenda via a skewed zoning formula that would favour some serving members of the committee. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu AMAC Chairman-Elect Appeals To Buhari To Assent Amendment… However a Caretaker Committee member dismissed the self succession allegation in a chat with our reporter, assuring that the February 26 date has come to stay. The source however explained that as soon as the zoning arrangement is out, nomination forms for NWC positions alloted to the zones would be despatched to states in each zones where they will be sold at the prescribed fee. The delay in the sale of the form created serious tension in the party on Monday February 14 , earlier scheduled for the commencement of the sale of forms. The lackadaisical attitude of the APC national Secretariat in responding to inquiries regarding the forms did not also help matters , fueling further speculations that the CECPC is determined to sink the party into another round of confusion. Speaking, the Caretaker Committee member said that the whole thing would be concluded this week. POLL “The governors have been meeting since this week on the zoning, especially and would conclude today or tomorrow. “We have heard that there were plans to postpone the National Convention but l want to tell you l am not aware of any such plan. I doubt if it is being contemplated. “The target of the CECPC and the governors is to conduct an acceptable National Convention of the party. “I assure, what the people are expecting in terms of failure would not be in this Convention.”On the issue of Sub-committees, there is nothing about that which cannot be resolved within two days. On the zoning arrangement and despatch of forms to the zones he said Ayu Tasks Past Governors To Bring Back Their Colleagues Who Left… Bala Mohammed Hails Diri For Continuity In Bayelsa’s… “The essence of this is to make sure that we reduce the acrimony that might arise from everybody buying form. “When forms get to the zones, we also expect the zones to zone them to the states to reduce tension. “We believe that it is not going to be a Convention that we would come and tear ourselves apart”.