God had a job for Moses, but Moses presented reasons why he wasn’t fit for the job. He questioned his own ability, identity, faith and credibility. For God to convince him, he took extra length. God calls not the qualified, but qualifies the called. According to Exodus 2:25, God showed concern about the children of Israel. God told Moses that he saw the sufferings and the miseries of his people in Egypt and would use Moses to deliver them from the hands of pharaoh (Exodus 3:7). This passage shows that God is concerned about our situation. He doesn’t forget his own people. We may feel alone sometimes in our sufferings, but the truth is, God has not forgotten us. The lord’s answer to the problem of his people was Moses, but Moses wasn’t apparently prepared for this. We don’t always want God to use us. We pray to God to save his people. We always expect God will send someone else to do the job. Do we know we can be the answer the lord has in mind for those in need? To the problems seen around us, we are God’s answer. Moses said he was a nobody, he was just a shepherd. For the period of 40 years he was on the run, he probably spoke to his sheep than to humans, not to mention talking to a great man like pharaoh. To top it all, he was a runaway fugitive who killed an Egyptian. The lord’s answer to him was that he would be with him (Exodus 3:12). Our confidence is not in ourselves but in God. David observed this when he moved towards Goliath and conquered him. Put your trust in your creator by believing his word, what he’s doing, and can do through you. There is danger in looking too much upon yourself. Don’t put your confidence in your wisdom, abilities, strength, education, experience or standing. You don’t have any excuse. God calls not the qualified, but qualifies the called. Looking at the scriptures, God used those who were not qualified. Abraham lied, Christ was denied by apostle Peter 3 times, David had an affair, Jacob was a cheater, Gideon was insecure; Paul was a murderer and Thomas doubted God. God equips and enables those he calls. Adeboye Mark’s 80th Birthday With Donation Of Dialysis… RCCG Prince Of Peace Mega Parish Boosts Community As we celebrate the call that gave birth to “The Saints Gospel Church of Christ (Hand of Fire)” this season, the lord almighty will visit us. Amen.