MAKURDI – The people of Igede extraction of old Oju Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue state, comprising Oju and Obi LGAs have appealed to their Idoma counterparts to relinquish the Benue South senatorial district seat to it in 2023, in the spirit of equity, fairness and justice. In a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT in Makurdi on Saturday, the people who spoke on the platform of Synergy Group demanded for the seat, arguing that 46 years after the creation of the state, the old Oju bloc was yet to produce a Senator. In the statement, signed by Comrade Ogbale Ogah and Andy Onoja, the group which, pledged its allegiance to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) noted that it rose to make the demand, after a meeting in which far-reaching decisions were made, including the demand for the ceding of the seat to the bloc. Buratai Boasts Of Modernised Nigerian Army Tricycle Riders Seek Separation From NURTW, Independent Union It, therefore, called on a former Chairman of Oju LGA, who is also an American based entrepreneur, Chief Bright Ogaji, to contest for the seat, during the 2023 elections, adding that the people of the district would benefit from his leadership qualities. The statement read, “We are made up of progressive elements in the PDP from Benue South, who feel that Igede people are due to produce a Senator from Benue South. “Since 1976 when Benue State was created, no person from old Oju has ever been a Senator from Benue South which is divided into three Zones: Old Otukpo, Old Oju and Old Okpokwu blocs. “Over the years, the Old Otukpo and Old Okpokwu have produced all the Senators from the Zone. It is therefore considered auspicious that in the spirit of inclusive politics which forms the kernel of democracy, Old Oju should be allowed to produce the Senator of the Zone in 2023. “This demand is obviously hinged on the need to domesticate the universal principles of equity, justice and fairness, constitute the mantra upon which Southern Benue is demanding to produce a Benue Governor in 2023. POLL “We must not be seen as being pretentious on our reliance on equity to getting our due from the larger Benue when we are not seen practising same equity back home. We must therefore do what is proper.” On the choice of Ogaji, they noted that “As a Chairman, he (Chief Ogaji) performed so creditably well in a manner that left his legacies unrivalled and unsurpassed till date and he has the needed formidable and dependable network within and outside the zone to actualizing it.” The group further lauded the efforts of the ‘Igede In 2023 Movement’ for its sustained commitment to the agitation for a Senator of Igede extraction in 2023 and called for concerted efforts by people of goodwill in the area to achieve the dream.