For too long, not much cherry news has been coming out of Nigeria. But despite the woes of insecurity that has practi­cally arrested development in our clime, Godwin Emefiele, governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, through his Anchor Borrowers Program, ABP, in partnership with Rice Farm­ers Association of Nigeria, RIFAN, has changed the narrative of Nigeria from doom and gloom to the cherry news of rice pyramids sprouting around Abuja and other cities, especially in the north. Before dwelling further on the propriety or otherwise of making a public exhibition of rice cultivated in Nigeria as the CBN and RIFAN did on Tuesday, January 18, 2022, in Abuja, it is proper that we put the significance of pyra­mids in context by underscoring its role from ancient Egyptian and Benin kingdoms to its last manifestation in Kano in the form of groundnut pyramids before its resurfacing in Abuja as rice pyramids which have generated a massive storm in the mass media — both traditional and social. There are different types of pyramids. De­pending on the shape of the base of the pyramid, they can be classified as a triangular pyramid, square pyramid, and pentagonal pyramid. The symbolism of rice pyramids which are triangu­lar in shape and sprouted in Abuja is rooted in the groundnut pyramids of yore which loomed large in the skylines of Kano city. That was back in the days when commodities that were at that time referred to as cash crops — groundnut and cotton in the north, cocoa in the southwest, oil palm and coal in the east, and rubber lumps as well as cashew nuts in the south, were the main­stay of the Nigerian economy. Kumuyi’s New Level: The Dead Are Living Again Hanifa: When A Society Kills Its Finest Willy nilly, the visual presentation of a pyra­mid of any commodity is to demonstrate or cre­ate the air of abundance to the masses who be­hold it. And pyramids as symbols of power and wealth date back to ancient Egypt under the rule of the pharaohs. Before the British destroyed it in the ancient days when they invaded the pal­ace of the Oba of Benin, a pyramid symbolising the power and wealth of the Benin kingdom at its peak was located in a strategic corner of the majestic palace of the Oba. The point l am trying to make is that the over­whelming visual essence of the power of the pyra­mid has always been optimally utilized by leaders like pharaoh from ancient Egypt, to Oba of Benin in the heydays of Bini kingdom and later emirs of Kano who created groundnut pyramids to project the wealth of the city which was the epicenter of the famous trans Saharan trade. Although the reality may currently be differ­ent, groundnut pyramids in Kano gave people the impression of hope, (true or false) that the commodity was in abundance. ***Given the scarcity of rice in Nigeria following its ban from being imported by the authorities, and the concerted efforts by both rice farmers and the federal government represented by the CBN that injected the required funds to grow rice locally, it was not unexpected that government would want to show off how successful the initiative has been.*** That explains the public display of the abundance of the commodity. It is a sort of assurance to Nigerians that rice is now in surplus, so there is hope that it would soon be in their cooking pots and subsequently in their stomachs. Somehow, it was envisaged that the rice pyramids showcased in Abuja would generate a positive effect similar to displaying an array of ships bearing petroleum products in our sea­ports which gave motorists the assurance that fuel scarcity, (which used to be a source of se­vere distress in Nigeria) was not in the horizon. It was commonsensical that following the optics of fuel-laden vessels offloading the cargo in the seaports, panic buying of fuel that often caused a run on the fuel stations, were avoided as the masses got the sense that there was an abundant supply of the commodity. It is in that sense that the rice pyramids were supposed to be a type of symbolism that would project beneficial assurance to Nigerians that their country is now, not only a self-reliant coun­try in rice production but could possibly be a net exporter. That is what strongly motivated the Rice Showboat in Abuja. It is rather unfortunate that the initiative, appears to have backfired as some Nigerians are clearly riled up by the fact that a million bags of paddy rice is piled up in multiple pyramids in Abuja when most of the hoi polloi went through Christmas and new year celebrations without rice being cooked in their kitchens and served in their dining tables, how much more end up in their stomachs which is the ideal place for the rice to be. POLL As the staple food that is traditionally enjoyed by most folks during periods of festivities, it would have been preferred by Nigerians if the rice pyramids were not in the premises of Abuja chambers of commerce and industry, but in their belly. Furthermore, the massive public oppro­brium that greeted the Abuja rice pyramid dis­play would not be lost on us when it is projected against the backdrop of the fact that there was a time in our country when some Nigerians only ate rice on Xmas day. That is the origin of the phrase Xmas Rice. It was disheartening that during 2021 end-of-year festivities, the masses were denied that luxu­ry; which is apparently why someone had to take the flak. By and large, while the purveyors of the concept for Abuja rice pyramids were altruistic, given the backlash, they may not have engaged in enough critical thinking before birthing and implementing it. Otherwise, they could have identified the potential negative implications and ramifications that just manifested, before embarking on the gambit. Had they recognised that we are currently in a country where there is a massive trust deficit between the leaders and followers, the nega­tive consequences of the rice pyramids could have been recognised and avoided. Amongst the myriad of factors responsible for the trust deficit between the authorities and the masses is the recent fallout of #Ensars riots whereby in the course of protesting police brutality, youths discovered and looted warehouses containing essential commodities such as rice, etc which are COVID-19 palliatives meant for the masses but were being selfishly kept in warehouses by gov­ernment officials for their personal enrichment. Owing to the #Endsars experience, it is easy for the masses to assume that government is out to once again emasculate them by hoarding the rice that should have been made available to them during Yuletide in the manner that COVID -19 palliatives were hidden from the masses in­stead of the commodity being distributed to them. Furthermore, the timing of the rice pyr­amid display in January is wrong as it could have had a more positive effect if the exhibition was held before the end of year festivities since it could have given the masses hope that there was enough rice in the country to make the end of year festivities enjoyable. What the scenario described above suggests is that it is a combination of strategic and tactical errors as earlier enumerated that have contrib­uted to ruining an otherwise justifiable action aimed at assuring Nigerians that their country is on the way to being not only self-reliant in rice production but a potential net exporter of the commodity that is a critical staple food in our country. It is unfortunate that instead of being a bold statement that Nigeria is now rice inde­pendent, there has been a monumental backlash engendered by rice the pyramids which this ar­ticle is trying to contextualize so that both the authorities and citizens can become aware of the missing links and the cause of the hoopla with a view to avoiding same mistakes in the future. Searching For Dan Amana Of Nigeria Mai Mala Buni: The Bridge over Troubled Waters If you like, it is a sort of post mortem with a view to putting both the leaders and the follow­ers on the same page. And I hope that ultimate­ly, this intervention would help clear the fog for government operatives to appreciate the fact that they have to subject their ideas to tests or what is referred to as proof of concept that could be conducted by social scientists before they are applied. As some of us may recall, the vanishing of the groundnut pyramids in Kano was emblematic of the decline of the economic fortunes of our country, especially with respect to wealth from cash crops generated through farming. In reality, the groundnut pyramids in Kano actually disap­peared as soon as there was a capacity to process the same into vegetable oil locally. And the re-enactment of the pyramid im­age in Abuja on Tuesday, January 18, 2022, was a ploy to rekindle the feeling of abundance of made in Nigeria rice. Clearly, it is the flagship of President Buhari’s legacy projects. It is also along the same line that Mr President recently visited Lagos to commission the sea-going ves­sels recently built by the Nigerian navy which was a huge accomplishment in the eyes of the incumbent government. All these events are being launched with pomp and pageantry by virtue of the fact that this administration is coming to its terminal end on May 29, 2023; therefore there is the need for President Buhari to curate his legacy before his imminent exit from Aso Rock Villa so that with the burnishing, posterity may be kind to him. However, in the light of the dissonance in com­munication between our leaders and followers, the latter could not see anything good about the rice pyramids which they could only consider to be a stunt-pulling event by the government even when millions of stomachs of the critical masses rumbling due to hunger. Nevertheless, beyond the symbolism of the sprouting of rice pyramids in Abuja, the partner­ship between the CBN that provided the funding through one of its economic intervention funds in different sectors and the Rice Farmers Associ­ation of Nigeria, RlFAN is remarkable and wor­thy of closer scrutiny to identify other benefits which have now been lost in the milieu of kudos and knocks triggered by the now infamous rice pyramids. Based on the exciting news emanating from both the CBN and RlFAN, it is amazing how in a space of less than seven (7) years, Nigeria has progressed from the status of a massive importer of rice estimated to be about 1.2 million metric tons annually valued at over N210 billion in 2014 to about 2,000 metric tons and valued at a mere N400 million in 2021. The good news above was conveyed by Pres­ident Buhari in his speech at the pyramids unveiling event. As a skeptic, I had received the incredible statistics on pre and post-ABP/RlCAN rice initiative between 2014 till date with a pinch of salt, until the Thailand Rice Exporters Association website was cited as a source for ver­ification. Unquestionably, there are a variety of perspectives to the Godwin Emefiele induced rice revolution. First of all, the leap in local rice pro­duction after the CBN committed huge funds to it, confirms the long-held belief that lack of fund­ing can stymie growth in a sector and adequate funding for development in a particular sector or of a commodity can make a huge difference. In other words, money can solve all problems, except the ones reserved for the creator of man­kind-God. Secondly, it is also proof that success can be achieved when an initiative is not only well resourced but also has massive political buy-in such as the type of support that stakeholders ranging from president Muhammadu Buhari down to the state governors of the rice-growing states, rendered the partnership between the CBN and RlFAN. Even the blind, deaf and dumb can attest to the fact that the initiative to make Nigeria rice sufficient in the current administra­tion’s quest for food security received maximum commitment and attention from the top echelon in Aso Rock Villa to those holding the levers of power in the respective government mansions in the various states at the bottom of the pyramid.