*Over 98,000 Persons Vaccinated Against COVID MAKURDI – Benue state has recorded about 47,569 cases of persons suspected to be infected with the COVID-19 virus from March 28, 2020 to date. This is even as the State Primary Health Care Board (PHCB) has disclosed that out of the number, 98,000 of the persons have been vaccinated against the virus. NiMet Releases 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction Expert Decries Low Awareness On Childhood Cancer Dr. Bem Ageda, Executive Secretary PHCB made this known at a one day media refresher workshop on COVID-19 vaccine acceptance for Media professionals by Breakthrough ACTION Nigeria (BA-N) in Makurdi on Tuesday. BA-N is a United States Agency for International Development (USAID) flagship for Social and Behaviourial Change (SBC) program whose goal is to among other things, implement the COVID-19 American Rescue Plan and COVID PEPFAR activities. Ageda who was represented at the occasion by Emmanuel Beeka, State Health Educator at the Board noted that there are about 298 outlets across the state to handle cases of COVID-19. According to him, “To ease congestion, there are a total number of 298 vaccination outlets across the state among which are, 206 PHCs; 11 private healthcare facilities, 32 mass vaccination centres and 49 outreaches to administer vaccines” Meanwhile, Dr Sam Ngishe, State Epidemiologist said the total samples so far collected across the 23 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state stood at 48,976, while 2,141 COVID-19 cases have so far been confirmed. POLL He said that all the LGAs in the state have confirmed cases, adding that only two local government areas have so far recorded fatality with Makurdi recording 24 deaths and Gboko having one death, thus bringing the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the state so far to 25. David Unum, Senior Monitoring and Evaluation Officer Breakthrough Action- Nigeria, in his welcome said the objectives of the programme include the sensitization of the Media on the COVID-19 Mass Vaccination activities; to identify the roles and responsibilities of the Media during COVID-19 mass vaccination as well as securing the commitment and support of the media for the COVID-19 mass vaccination in the state. In his remarks, the State Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Joseph Ngbea commended Breakthrough Action- Nigeria for stepping in, to sensitise the media on vaccines acceptance, adding, this would help in changing the behaviour and attitudes of members of the public. Ngbea who was represented by the State Director Public Health, Dr. Terna Kur, said at the end of the media parley, it would go a long way in doing away with the myths and misconception about the COVID vaccines and the disease itself. Also speaking, Eze Eze of Breakthrough ACTION Nigeria, harped on practical steps to debunk health misinformation and disinformation. Govt’s Should Prioritize Wellbeing Of Sickle Cell Patients… How Nigeria Can Reduce Over N200bn Annual Importation On… He advised the media to join in the campaign and sensitize the public on the need for everyone to get vaccinated so that the state can mass-viccinate communities. The expected outcome of the programme would be the sentization of the COVID-19 Mass Vaccination in Benue State, which is intended to define the roles and responsibilities of the Media during COVID-19 Mass Vaccination and innovation to address challenges from previous experiences.