• Warns That Power Shift Agitation Might Further Divide Country Former National Chairman, People’s Democratic Party, PDP, and newly installed Tafidah of Ilorin, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, has come out to fault the stance by former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, over zoning of the presidency where he claimed that such arrangement by political parties is not enshrined in the Nigerian constitution. Picking holes in the former VP’s argument, the new ‘Tafidan Ilorin’ pointed out that zoning is well enshrined in the PDP constitution where Atiku belongs. 2023: You Can’t Face Rigours Of Office With Your Present… 2023: Northern Youths Kick Against Atiku’s Presidential… He also explained that the Nigerian constitution allows each party to run its affairs in manners that carry all members along. Baraje made this call late Tuesday evening to journalists in Ilorin at his GRA residence as part of a rapprochement with newsmen ahead of this Friday’s coronation as the new Tafidah. “His excellency, our leader, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was saying the right thing but he has forgotten that the constitution of PDP has been amended, and I believe some of us will remind him that it’s not in the constitution of PDP before to a certain number of years back, but it is now clearly stated in the PDP constitution that zoning should be respected and there is a caveat in the constitution which says that zoning should be respected for the purpose of giving a sense of belonging to all members of the party and for all-inclusiveness except and only when a resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) decide otherwise” “It is stated in the constitution black and white, It was reviewed in the constitution sometime around 2011. “Although, before then, it was an oral tradition of PDP and it was even as good as being written. POLL “I met it like that when I took over as party National Secretary in 2008. “Even when it was an oral tradition of the party, it was highly respected. “It was formally included in our party constitution in 2011 when we were reviewing the party constitution before I left in 2011,” he said. The former PDP, the chairman also shared his views on the zoning controversies and admitted that the North Central is also in pole position produce the President of the Country has not been privileged to do so before. He however warned that the campaign for zoning should not be over-flogged in order not to further divide the country.Talking about his chieftaincy title conferred on him by the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, he said, “it’s a great honor and fulfillment to be recognized in one’s hometown. Enugu Guber: Group Kicks Against Zoning Edo South 2023: YEPP Counters PDP Chieftain, Insists On Zoning “Although, It came to me as a surprise, because I never expected it. “After the announcement, I went to do my research on who is a Tafida and the role expected of the holder, and I discovered that it emanated from North Africa, Egypt precisely, and it was later adopted by Hausa/Fulani tradition and my research also revealed that the full title is ‘Tafida Aiki Seriki’ it means simply, one who is a co-traveler of the Emir. “Therefore, that title is bestowed on an individual that is close to the Emir. “As if that was not enough, I got a call from Sultan of Sokoto, two days ago, congratulating me, saying ‘you are welcome into the inner circle of traditional council, note, that henceforth you will be consulted on issues on tradition, culture, not only politics’.“Indeed it is a fresh call for one to do more in terms of service to humanity and community development,” Baraje said.