The fourth Nigerian edition of the Night of Ideas was held at the Alliance française de Lagos/Mike Adenuga Centre recently brought together a public that was present both physically and online. As part of the cycle of debate of ideas led by the French network in Nigeria in 2022, it brought together actors from civil society, academia and the arts in Nigeria around the theme of inter-religious dialogue. Coordinated by the French Institute for Research in Africa (IFRA-Nigeria) with the support of the French Institute of Nigeria and the Alliance française de Lagos/ Mike Adenuga Centre, the Night of Ideas brought together a public that was present both physically and online. Nigerians In Egypt Pay $19.2m For Business Registration FirstBank Rewards Customers In Its Visa Gold Cashback Campaign The choice was made to decline the theme “Re (construct) together” around the issue of inter-religious dialogue and social cohesion in Nigeria, in the wake of the PADIR research programme (African Perspectives on Inter-Religious Dialogue) led by IFRA-Nigeria. The global Covid-19 pandemic has profoundly altered our lifestyles, reminding us of the importance of physical human connections, beyond the widespread use of digital technology, and the centrality of social cohesion in responding to economic, political and cultural changes and challenges. Nigeria, a diverse and plural country, is regularly marked by inter-group confrontations and violence, in a persistent context of economic crisis, but also constitutes a laboratory where original ways of living together are invented and implemented. Beyond the fatalistic and outdated speeches, this “Night of Ideas” was therefore, intended to be a moment of exchange and collective reflection on the current perspectives of social cohesion in Nigeria. The evening was divided into two parts: POLL The first part was devoted to the exclusive screening of the short documentary “Compound” produced by the Mud Art Company, supported by the French Institute of Nigeria. Mud Art Company was the winner of the Et Action! Programme conducted online for 3 months, from March to June 2020.