Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola, has called on his fellow gubernatorial candidates Moshood Adeoti and ex-Deputy Speaker, Lasun Yusuf to join him to move the state forward. Independent News had earlier reported that Oyetola won the ticket of the All Progressives Congress to contest for the second term in office. Oyetola polled 222,169, Adeoti got 12,921 votes, while Lasun got 460 to place third. Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award Enugu 2023: Ugwanyi, Nwobodo, Nwodo, Nnamani, Chime Back Enugu… The Osun State Governor while speaking on his victory said it was made possible by members of the party that gave him another opportunity to serve. Oyetola said, “Today’s victory is made possible by the members of our great party who gave us another opportunity to face the people of Osun to seek re-election. The outcome of this primary election is a victory for our party and members who have spoken loudly through their votes. “It is a victory for our people who trooped out in large number during our strategic tour of the State to inform them of our intention to seek a second term. It is a restatement of their confidence in our Development Agenda which hope delivered in 2018 and performance sealed in 2022. It is evidence of their belief in sustainable development which we brought into governance and preached every inch of the way. “I thank you all our party members for your constant support, and especially for speaking eloquently today with your massive votes in favour of our administration’s restoration and consolidation agenda. “With this primary election now concluded, I invite us all to rededicate ourselves and the party to deliver an overwhelming victory at the gubernatorial polls holding on Saturday, 16th July 2022. For me, we are all winners. I, therefore, extend my hand of fellowship to the other two aspirants to join me as we prepare for the July election. We are all brothers. Let’s join hands to build the Osun of our dream. POLL “Let us close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form. Therefore, may I use this opportunity to also ask all our aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with us to further strengthen our party and deliver outstanding results at the gubernatorial poll,” he added.