LAGOS – An Ikeja Special Offenses Court has sentenced a medical practitioner, Wilfred Fajemisin, to two years imprisonment over unlawful possession of a property document. The court presided by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo sentenced Dr. Fajemisin after he was found guilty of the charge brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The medical doctor was arraigned on a three-count charge on July 8, 2020. EFCC had docked the doctor on charges bordering on conspiracy, obtaining documents by false pretence and forgery contrary to Section 246, 636(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. NSCDC Intercepts Over 200 Bags Of Cannabis In Lagos Hoodlums Attack Lambata New Village Head, Vandalise Property He was alleged to have forged about 15 documents among them the ‘Deed of Assignment’ of estate belonging to late Ashamu. However, he pleaded not guilty to the charge, which makes the prosecution to commence trial. The lead prosecution counsel, Mr. Samuel Daji called seven witnesses including handwriting expert, EFCC operative that investigated the case. While delivering judgement, Justice Taiwo said the prosecution failed to prove two of the three charges, however, she found him guilty on the third charge (possession of forged document). The judge held that, “It is the duty of the prosecution to prove the ingredient of the alleged offence against the defendant. There is substantial evidence that the defendant was found in the possession of the forged Deed of Assignment. “The prosecution failed to call Stanley Agwu. The prosecution was unable to prove Jide Adekunle who allegedly prepared the Deed of Assignment and has alleged to have paraded himself as a lawyer in Bamigbose’s office. POLL “It is clear to the court that Jide Adekunle had denied having transaction with the defendant. It is the defendant that was found in the possession of the Deed of Assignment. “In conclusion, I found that circumstantial evidence was proved against the defendant. The defendant was charged for intent to defraud, have in possession, the forged document.” Justice Taiwo therefore found him guilty of being in possession of forged document and thereafter sentenced Fajeminsin to two years imprisonment. She, however, gave him option of N500,000.00 in lieu of the prison term.