LAGOS – GOXI Micro Insurance Company, one of the foremost Micro insurance company in Nigeria positioned to deliver unique insurance solutions to MSMEs, recently stormed Lagos markets with “We Dey Ur Back” campaign to introduce traders to the various insurance packages created by the company to help educate traders on the benefits of insurance to their business. During the sensitization, at Oke Arin market, Lagos Island, the traders were delighted when GOXI representatives introduced the “GOXI Ma Business” to the traders at the market. They were excited because the insurance product provides them the opportunity to have access to affordable insurance packages which addresses some of the major problems being faced by them. Embrace Backward Integration Policy, Emefiele Tells Rice Millers MTN Shareholders To Get N174.4bn Final Dividend Mr. Efe Isiorho, the Business Development Manager, GOXI Micro Insurance, explained that traders can now have their goods insured with as low as N500 (Five Hundred Naira) under the GOXI Ma Business insurance package. According to him, “GOXI Ma Business is an insurance plan developed to help traders insure their wares. The insurance plan helps to provide funds whenever goods get damaged following occurrence of burglary, theft or fire. It also provides alternative shop for the business.” Mr. Efe also introduced other products such as the GOXI Microloan Protection, which helps with the repayment of loans or debts following occurrence of unforeseen events like loss of job or untimely death. Others are GOXI Agric Loan Protection targeted at farmers and this will support them to repay Agric loans following occurrence of unforeseen events like flood or damage of crops or farm produce and GOXI Welfare, which is a plan designed for staffs, family, and association members’ to have access to medical treatments expenses in the event of accident or permanent disability. The “We Dey Your Back” campaign has gone round various markets in differents local Government in lagos state such as Oke-Arin, Balogun, Tejuosho, Iyana Ipaja, Igando, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Agege markets. POLL During the visit to one of the selected market, Alhaja Temitope Dada, a Trader at Oniwaya market, Agege, appreciated GOXI Micro Insurance for the creation of the GOXI Ma Business Micro Insurance plan. She narrated her the ordeal she faced when her shop was looted during the End SARS protests, how she lost everything and had to start afresh because she didn’t insure her shop. She encouraged her fellow traders to be part of the great offer so that they can be assured that their goods are covered in case of unforeseen incidents. Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe , the Chairman, GOXI Micro Insurance, noted that the campaign, “We Dey Your Back” is one of the ways the company plans to help Nigerians create a sustainable future for their business and family. “We are poised to deliver responsive insurance policies through our flexible and innovative structures.”