LAGOS – The Series 1 offer for sale of 575 million shares held by MTN Group in MTN Nigeria (the offer) to Nigerian inves­tors has been successfully completed. The offer was implement­ed by way of a bookbuild to qualified institutional inves­tors and a fixed price offer to retail investors. The offer was oversub­scribed with valid appli­cations for a total of 801.97 million units, leading to the activation of the approved 15 percent over-subscription clause of an additional 86.25 million MTN Nigeria shares. Bomb Terrorists Out Of Their Hideouts – Senate Urges FG Be Good Ambassadors Of Justice, Lagos Commissioner Urges New… In all, 661.25 million MTN Nigeria shares were allotted. A total of 126,720 retail in­vestors submitted valid ap­plications and received full allotment; and institutional investors including pension funds, insurance companies, asset managers, corporates, and foreign portfolio inves­tors that participated in the bookbuild were allotted 72.09 percent of their applications. This includes Nigerian pension funds representing approximately 6.5 million Nigerian contributors. Following the success­ful completion of the offer, MTN Group’s shareholding in MTN Nigeria reduced by 3.25 percentage points, from 78.83 percent to 75.58 percent. In line with the innova­tive incentive structure of one free share for every 20 purchased, subject to a max­imum of 250 free shares per investor, an additional 4.28 million MTN Nigeria shares will be allotted to qualify­ing investors who hold the shares allotted to them for 12 months till January 31, 2023. POLL MTN Group adopted a unique structure in this offering by determining a fixed price of N169 per share for the retail offer through a bookbuild to qualified inves­tors that was completed on November 26, 2021. The fixed price offer to retail investors was at a dis­count of 11% to the closing price of MTN Nigeria stock on the day the bookbuild was completed. The offer commenced on December 1, 2021 and was completed on December 14, 2021. Nigerian investors across the country supported the offer through multiple channels – receiv­ing agents, issuing houses and PrimaryOffer (a digital application platform). More than 89% of retail offer subscribers applied through the primary offer platform (mobile and web), and 114,938 new Central Se­curities Clearing System (CSCS) accounts were opened by first-time investors. Ralph Mupita, CEO of MTN Group, said: “We are pleased that this offer has giv­en so many Nigerians the op­portunity to become owners of MTN Nigeria. With over 6.6 million Nigerians directly or indirectly becoming share­holders in MTN Nigeria, the objective of broadening the shareholder base, and cre­ating shared value has been achieved. We are proud that our offer was the first Nige­rian public offer to use the digital application platform, PrimaryOffer, which enabled wider investor participation across Nigeria. We thank the Nigerian authorities for their support of this offer. We remain committed to playing our humble role in driving digital and financial inclusion in Nigeria over the medium.” Commenting on the offer, Karl Toriola, CEO of MTN Nigeria, said: “We are de­lighted to welcome so many new shareholders to the MTN family, up 11.6 times from the number before the offer. It has been inspiring to see so many Nigerians, many of whom are young, acquire shares for the first time, and use a digital platform to do so. 2023: Ebonyi PDP Legal Adviser Calls For Conference Over Zoning Oyetola Releases Another N958m To Pay Pensioners In Osun “This is the beginning of a journey to broaden our shareholding and there will be more opportunities to par­ticipate. “We are pleased with the level of digital innovation we championed with this offer with the active collaboration of our lead issuing house and the various regulatory bodies. Deepening retail participation in Nigeria’s capital markets is a process, and we are off to a great start, demonstrating the role digi­tal platforms can play in ex­panding access. “I am particularly pleased that we completed this trans­action in an accelerated time frame ensuring new share­holders can realise value al­most immediately through participation in our 2021 full-year dividend. “I would specifically like to thank the Honourable Minis­ter of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami); the Nigerian Communications Commission and the wider Federal Government for the opportunity to execute this offer. I thank the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nigerian Exchange Lim­ited, the CSCS, and all the parties involved for their support in delivering this ambitious Offer structure. “I also appreciate our staff who worked tirelessly with our advisers on this project. Most of all I would like to thank our new shareholders for having confidence in us and in our future. We are de­lighted to have you on board for this journey to building a digital future together.”