LAGOS  – National President of the Petroleum Products Retail Outlets Owners Association (PETROAN), Dr Billy Harry, has stated that his group’s partnership with the Rivers state will boost the current fight against the illegal oil refiners and those engaged in bunkering in the Niger Delta region and beyond. He disclosed this during 3P technology presentation/ demonstration ceremony in Port Harcourt, the state, The group has also opened discussions with the Federal Government on the adoption of the 3P technologies, which guarantees genuineness and appropriateness of oil product from purchase to delivery. SEPCOL’s Oil Field Fire Extinguished, Evacuation Operation… GEIL Moves Against Gas Flaring, Sets Date For Commissioning Of… He spoke on how the technology works, saying if a truck is linked with the 3P technology, the technology provides proof that the product in the truck, sold and being delivered to anywhere in the country is genuine and not sourced from an illegal source, and not fake. “The technology would also show that the product is not adulterated. The receiver of the products will be sure to receive them intact. The 3P will indicate the source of the petroleum product, and if it is adulterated or not. If it is from the illegal refineries, anyone including a security agent accosting on the road, will know. “If there was any tampering, both the owner and eventual buyer will know. The 3P would indicate if anything, including reduction of the product on the way, happened. It would also help government to know the exact quantity of oil and gas sold and consumed in the country,” the PETROAN president said Besides, the group is currently discussion with officials of the petroleum resources ministry with the view to partnering with the Nigerian government at the federal level. “The partnership with the Rivers state government will provide the test-run that the federal would need to confirm its efficacy,” Billy said POLL Speaking, the state commissioner of energy and natural resources, Peter Medee, said the 3P is timely, and from another dimension, will assist the state government in the current drive against illegal refineries, fake products and products diversion. ‘‘A situation, where drivers are at liberty to take the product from where they are and to where they want is over. A situation where they would take it to the destination, including country, of choice, when the Federal Government pays the subsidy, is over. A situation anyone can carry a fake product from anywhere to anywhere, undetected is over. The 3P technology gives the country the power to take control,” the commissioner added.