This is what Nigerians had ex­pected from the Super Eagles but they missed all for a piecemeal of preliminary three victories. Of course, the Eagles rendered Mohammed Sallah useless in their first match of the AFCON tourney in Cameroon beating the Pharaohs one goal to nil. They danced, jubilated, cheered as if tomorrow won’t come. Oh, how we caged Sallah. Sallah was on holiday. Sallah was absolutely not in the match as he was caged left, right and centre. I laughed as if the Unity Cup was already in their kitty. This is a team that didn’t know how to manage success and failure. Not too far from an amateurish club side. All of their jubilation centred on Mo’Sallah of Egypt! And the “Pharaoh” him­self brought out his best when it really mattered, while interim Coach Eguavoen and his wing­less Eagles left the tournament unceremoniously for Mo’Sallah to shine! After sieving the shaft from the grains, Eagles fell on the shaft side for the grains to grow; that was how the men were separated from the boys. It was very unfor­tunate that Nigeria now reaped what we supposedly tried to avoid in the Championship. It was win­ning in the Championship and at least returning with a medal, of course, a bronze to settle for less. But that was not to be as little spoil of victory got deeply root­ed in their thinking and they lost the trail of reality, which did not dawn on them that after those three wins, the business can’t be as usual in the knock-out stages. Pinnick, A Stitch In Time, Saves Nine The Nigeria Police And The Dog’s Nose This is where both the coach and the team lost the profession­alism of the game. It’s funny that you won all three matches in your first assignments, only to fall like a pack of cards when the actual business of the fies­ta was to be highly demonstrated with professional skills and tacti­cal intelligence! Egypt were the first prey of Ni­geria. And that situation scored them high above all other teams in the AFCON. Now, the tourna­ment has become stiffer with the Pharaohs of Egypt coming out stronger and stronger exhibit­ing high professionalism of the game. First, they had it with Ivo­ry Coast. That game was a tough class but alas, they had their way dislodging the very technically skilled Ivoriens to qualify to meet heavy star-studded side from the same northern hemisphere. Who could have known better if not the Egyptians and the Moroc­cans simultaneously of who will come out better in their match? No doubt, the professional exper­tise of Carlos Queiroz, the Portu­guese-born tactician brought out the best of the Pharaohs against the Moroccans. Whoever thought Egypt could sail past the Atlas Li­ons of Morocco, who had always dominated the Egyptians in times past when it mattered like this must have goofed. But most times, football is played with the unseen legs from the sidelines; and that’s the coach who knows better! Car­los indeed is the hatchet foreign coach for the Pharaohs! After the Pharaohs suffered that first defeat in the hands of the Eagles, they were like a write-off in the fiesta. Little did the entire nations that gathered in Cameroon know of what the Egyptians had in stock in the rest of their games. That’s how best one can reserve strategies of the profession throughout a foot­ball Championship. Yours truly knew that these Pharaohs would beat the Eagles if given a second chance. It was unfortunate for Serezo, having left coaching for quite some decades now without any induction course anywhere to keep abreast of modern foot­ball coaching. He had to rely on his yesteryear coaching ability after taking over from Gernot Rohr to make sure Nigeria were not entirely dis­graced. Given the way Eguavoen exited Cameroon, it quite under­stands that a well-bred manager from any part of the world can pull the victory strings when it matters, irrespective of what na­ture of tournament! The Mohammed Sallah mo­ment had come to bear in Cam­eroon with his team from the Nile of the northern hemisphere. Mo’Sallah has tormented every team that had come his way with his football prowess and expertise having his Portuguese coach di­recting affairs from the sidelines. What else do you expect from a competent coach and a classical skipper whose exploits in the English premiership cannot be over-emphasized? A Mo’Sallah will always have his way when­ever the chips are down. He was classic against the Ivorians and superlative in the face of the Atlas Lions of Morocco to advance to the last four of the Championship. It is true that good players would always mount the stage when the going is difficult; as the prelimi­nary ball dance of the Champi­onship usually disappears with the euphoria of a “welcome to our land”; the moment you allow that momentary victory to choke you down, just know you only arrived that land for a jamboree. It was Nigeria’s candid case! POLL The memory of Mo’Sallah in the AFCON 2021 will ever re­main indelible in the annals of African football history. Nigeria have helped to propel Mo’Sallah “the Pharaoh” to the height of this AFCON in Cameroon! He has become the chief protagonist of the tourney, which I know used the Eagles of Nigeria as a decoy to further establish his authority over the game. The Egyptians may likely be the favourite to lift the Unity Cup. But if it goes the contrary, then it was a better team that dislodged Mo’Sallah and his teammates for the silver medal. Coming back to the Nile with silver will only be a consolation as the Egyptian home fans will not want to settle for less at this stage where the likelihood of winning the coveted trophy is almost at their beckoning with the “Pharaoh” himself; classical Mo’Sallah! The game of football becomes more interesting in a tournament when you spot good players repre­senting their various home coun­tries well. One could recall the days of “Austin Jay Jay Okocha”, he was an enigma at the midfield for Nigeria. He loves the Jersey No.10 and he does the magic with that number on the field of play. Classical players are the magic of every tourney. You can as well refer to them as playmakers; play­ers who could do the impossible with the ball, change the scenari­os when the coach is exhausted of all tactics to carry the day! Players like Nigeria’s Okocha (10); Jules Bucande (10) for Sene­gal, though late. Some others are Titi Camara (10) Guinea; Abedi Ayew Pele (10) Ghana; Abdullai Traore (10) Ivory Coast; Lakhdar Belloumi (10) Algeria; Mahma­du Zango (10) Burkina Faso and a host of them across the continent of Africa. These aforementioned players had their classical histo­ry individually in their various heydays! Today, players just put on the No.10 jersey without what it takes to spot it on. We all know the great Pele of Brazil, Maradona of Ar­gentina, and of course Messi! Coaches should be able to know and identify where a player is useful and be lethargic while on the pitch. The No. 10 must be a game-changer, he’s like the skipper, the field marshall, and the playing quasi-coach! Nigeria must get a coach of this class, no sentiments! And the time to search for such is now as there are many more Mo’Sallah to face tomorrow as the FIFA Mundial qualifying matches are under­way. Having said that, it has been Mo’Sallah all the way in Cam­eroon; indeed he is a Pharaoh! Nigeria, in their team, lacked a playmaker! Gen Abdulsalami’s Truth About Abiola’s Death Nigeria’s Phenomenal Corruption Advancements The next coach for Nigeria must be the one that should create wonderful footballers for the country. He should not be the type that will live outside Nigeria and work from the blue moon. He should be a well-bred seasoned coach, who could take on the world without complexity to colour and intimidation over the professionalism of the game. This time around, Nigeria should get a coach who could provide the likes of a Mo’Sallah for the next assignment on the ground. The AFCON experience should sink some moral lessons into the heads of our football federation and the sports minis­try if Nigeria is to be reckoned with again in the comity of foot­ball nations. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Nigeria!