–Crisis looms As Buni Swears-in State Chairmen ABUJA – The smouldering fire may soon bust into a huge flame in the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee CECPC swear in the state Chairmen -elect into the office today. Daily Independent also reliably gathered that the CECPC is pushing vigorously to extend its life beyond the February 26 National Convention date, using the new State Chairmen to achieve the plot. Euro Surges As Record Inflation Adds Pressure On ECB Court Adjourns Hearing Of $130m Suit Against SAIPEM The CECPC we gathered has launched a two-pronged attack on the February 26 National Convention date declaring it untenable. On one front the CECPC is said to have perfected a plan to use the Chairmen to cement the extension while at the same time seeking the understanding of President Mohammadu Buhari. It is learnt that the CECPC has reached out to the Minister of Justice and Attorney general of the Federation, Abubakar Malami to secure the buy-in of the president and leader of the party. The swearing-in today is coming against the backdrop of the recent submission of the interim report of the National Reconciliation Committee which has allegedly been set aside by the CECPC. Recall that effort at reconciling the over are about 17 factional states chairmen in various State chapters have largely failed to materialize. POLL Some of the states with factional APC chairmen are Abia, Ogun, Delta, Oyo, Kwara, Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Kano and Sokoto. Investigation suggests that the aggrieved factional chairmen have arrived Abuja with their supporter primes to besiege the party National Secretariat in Abuja. One State that has been in crisis over the State Congresses is Abia where stakeholders had warned against according any form of recognition on the Ikechi Emenike led faction. Recall that some that Abia State APC women had recently laid siege at National Secretariat, warning against the swear-in state chairman produced by Chief Ikechi Emenike’s faction. It appears that the CECPC ignored that caution as they have extended invitation to the Abia state party chairman. And this is inspired of the recommendation of the Reconciliation committee which we learnt had called for the cancellation of Abia and some State congresses. [BREAKING] AFCON: Mane Scores As Senegal Beat Burkina Faso To… Hike In Fees: Senate Moves To Avert Impending Crisis In Tertiary… “The Committee recommended that some state congresses should be cancelled and this did not go well with Caretaker Committee. “What the Caretaker did was to discard the interim report.” “We suggest that there are some issues that will still come to the Interim Report. Some of them (petitioners) are hanging around the Secretariat as we talk. And we believe it is fair in the spirit of APC that they are given fair hearing. “We believe strongly that all our activities will find a light afterwards. We are requesting for seven days from today to receive those yet to be listened to then make a submission of the final report.”