LAGOS  – The Secretary-General of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mohammad Barkindo, has emphasised Nigeria’s key role in the global oil industry, saying it should continue to lead by example given the country’s stature. He spoke when he hosted a working lunch for a delegation from NNPC headed by Dr Billy Okoye, Group Executive Director of Ventures and Business Development, in Vienna, Austria. He also praised the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), noting that the legal framework adopted in 2021 would help Nigeria to further develop the petroleum industry. SEPCOL’s Oil Field Fire Extinguished, Evacuation Operation… Petroleum Retailers Explain Crusade Against Illegal Refiners Barkindo praised the efforts undertaken by the Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) countries in the interest of oil market stability. According to him, the DoC was established in 2016 to accelerate the return of oil market stability following an oil market downturn. He also said that the framework continued to prove effective with the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic since 2020. “These countries did not need to reinvent the wheel. They stepped up to the challenge and adopted the largest-in-volume and longest-induration production adjustments”, he added Speaking, Dr.Okoye lauded Barkindo, on the role he played in the formation of the Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) between OPEC member countries and non-OPEC oil-producing countries. POLL He said: “Secretary-General, you stood up to unprecedented challenges and you will continue to do so” Okoye also commended Barkindo for his achievements as OPEC’s Secretary-General for two successful terms, adding that he had been an ambassador of the corporation and Nigeria. It would be recalled that the OPEC recently voted to appoint Kuwaiti candidate Haitham Al- Ghais as its new secretary-general The oil cartel In a statement, said Al-Ghais was selected at a special meeting of the Conference of OPEC held via videoconference on Monday, January 3, 2022. He will replace Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, a Nigerian representative, when his second term as OPEC secretary-general ends July 2022. Senate Promises Support For Frontier Exploration Deregulation: Economist Advises FG Not To Adjust Petroleum Act “In accordance with Article 28 of the OPEC Statute and in the application of the procedure decided at the 182nd Meeting of the Conference on 1 December 2021, the Conference decided by acclamation to appoint Mr Haitham Al-Ghais of Kuwait as Secretary-General of the Organization, with effect from 1 August 2022, for a period of three years,” the statement reads.