Comrade Omoyele Sowore is the National Chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC) and the party’s presidential candidate in 2019. Sowore, the Convener of Coalition for Revolution (CORE), who has been on trial over the #RevolutionNow national protests organised by the group for better Nigeria, spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU from his Abuja base where he had been restricted to by a court order. Excerpt: With political activities leading to the 2023 general elections beginning in earnest and bearing in mind your ongoing face-off with the Federal Government, what is your message to your supporters and members of the AAC across the nation? Our people are very much aware of my strength and conviction. They know that the case never existed and that the trial was dead on arrival. We are all gearing for the Big Bang. 2023: Nobody Should Spoil Ubuluisiuzo, Osumoghu’s Chances… Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… With the way your case in court is going and the deactivation of your NIN, do you see the possibility of you participating in the politics of 2023 elections? Participating in political activities is a right that cannot be taken away by mere administrative manoeuvre. I never stopped participating and engaging in revolutionary political work. What structures would you say are being put in place to ensure that AAC will be involved in the 2023 elections bearing in mind its case against the Leonard Nzenwa’s group? The AAC leadership never changed since AAC was founded. What they kept trying to do was hijack the party using some reactionary elements. But, the party members have remained resolute. How do you see the number of presidential contenders that have already indicated interest in the coming 2023 election? POLL Nothing new, a motley crowd. The reason they have struggled to maintain relevance and staying power. Nigerians are waiting for the real deal. They know what they want. Would you say that with the crop of contenders, Nigeria could be pulled out of its current quagmire? A majority of them are the same political jobbers that destroyed Nigeria. What is your take on the reviewed Electoral Act Amendment Bill providing Direct, Indirect and Consensus modes of primaries for political parties? I am more worried about the partisan hacks that have populated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Okowa’s Aide Declares Intention For Warri South West,… Only Women Can Deliver Nigeria From Corruption, Says Karen James Faced with imminent labour unrest and national strike, the FG recently shifted the implementation of the removal of petroleum subsidy by 18 months against the provision of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) which stipulated February this year. How do you see the way the issue of petroleum subsidy is being handled by the government? Nigeria has always subsidised crooks. Unfortunately, the reputation of labour leaders is not good either. With the huge foreign loans commitment by the Federal Government, do you see the possibility of it implementing this year’s budget to a reasonable extent? I honestly hate talking about the Muhammadu Buhari regime As the year 2022 unfolds, what are your message to Nigerians who believe in your ability to lead the nation? My message to them is that there is always that time that we do not have to move with the waves. A time not to swim with the tides, nor dance with the currents. A time to make decisions that will determine the moments to come. Time decides how long a system will keep running. Time decides how long a slave will be a slave, it also decides when the oppressed will throw their chains into oblivion. We have been on the side of history for the larger part of our political life. We have spoken when many have been shut. We have been standing when millions have been cowed to keep being down. How united would you say the country is? The system really wants us to be so divided alongside ethnic, religious and such sentiments. But, we have shown that there is one unity that binds millions of citizens; our oppression. For the rulers are never dedicated to all of what divides us except exploiting the hell out of our suffering bones. The few rulers and their money mongers do not have any relation. They are united by their massive stealing from our common wealth, whether Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba, or any minority groups. They do not mind whether the people get destroyed from Zamfara to Sokoto to Imo and Lagos. They only care for rogues in their class. Why do you say so since the administration has always termed itself to be welfarist? Buhari does not care about anyone, even the Katsina people in the face of bandits’ invasions. Goodluck Jonathan too never resolved the Niger Delta crises, neither had Obasanjo any positive effect on the Ogun people. The set of rogues who have been ruling Nigeria since 1960 are unrepentant fascists who only care for their pockets and their private properties. What is your take on the impending revolution you have been talking about? Last year, 2021, was such a refreshing one. It decided whether the wicked rulers would get away with their violent quelling of the #EndSARS protests. The movement also started with a no-holds-barred #RevolutionNow Cross Over Vigil that landed us into detention for a week and a half here in Abuja. That vigil was done nationally and it kick-started a year of exclusive bravery that was crystalised with strategic battles between the oppressed and the rulers. Comrades turned the whole year to one of revolutionary engagements and programmes that kept the rulers on the defensive all through. From the #OccupyLekkiTollGate to the #NorthIsBleeding mass actions; the oppressed people have shown that our unity matters more than all the divisive distractions. We have united from ‘Cross Over Night’; instead of “EndSARS” to yesterday to tell it to the faces of our oppressors that we can build a new Nigeria without the rulers who are actually the problems we have to do without. Many say our protests do not work, some of them support rallies or boycott but we keep saying that all the strategies of the oppressed are very important. We must keep saying NO to all malpolicies of those rotten Nigerian rulers till we win finally. How do you see the 2023 general elections and the journey to a new Nigeria? Our comrades were almost torn among many of the political alternatives that presented themselves out of the realities in the trajectories of our struggles. Many in the light of the Biafran and Yoruba nation struggles agreed with the fact that what is needed is the battle for referendum. Some others believe that we need only an electoral intervention while most of us still believe that in all of these junctures; if methods and agitations do not quicken the revolution from below, we all would stand defeated. To fight for self determination; we must be ready for a major revolt. This is why the Biafran struggles had more political impacts during and after the #EndSars protest than before. The Yoruba nation birthed a renewed improvement just after the #EndSARS protests. But in all the persecutions and trails of the self determination struggles and the leaders like Sunday Igboho and Mazi Nnamdi Kanu; the rulers fear the #EndSARS movement more. This was why they were shocked when the #NorthIsBleeding protests broke out. Yet, ‘dem never see’ anything. Youths in the North have reason, and all that is needed is more cementing so that comrades all over the North can synchronise more and fight. What would you say is the essence of solidarity in the move to birth a new nation for Nigerians? Some of us have spent the last three decades of our lives fighting for a new prosperous and democratic Nigeria. One major lesson is that the oppressed people are really angry, but they do not have the solidarity and clarity to unite and go to battle together. For the past two decades, the people have twice showed from January ‘Uprising Against Fuel Subsidy Removal’ in 2012, to the #EndSARS Mass Revolts in October 2020, it has been reinforced over and over that what unites us is more germane and sacrosanct than what divides us. Our solidarity unconditionally with IPOB, Yoruba Nation agitators, and the Shiites, has been so fulfilling as it has hurt and destabilised the rulers more than ever. We have also further exposed to the world that no genuine person, interest, or group is safe under this tyranny. We must stand with all oppressed people, as our unity further divides and bastardises our oppressors. There is an incoming issue of Fuel Price Hike and many are already preparing to resist. We must all start preparing as revolutionaries, so that we are not caught unawares. We must deepen our solidarity with the working class so we can have the capacity and audacity to take on the Labour bureaucracy as at when it is needed. We must stand with ASUU and such other patriotic unions that want a better Nigeria and demand for better welfare for all. Our rulers are never interested in whatever would make social welfare to be in the reach of all, and not a few privileged. We must never allow any further increments in fuel price, no matter the excuses. What would you say about your party, AAC, and the need to radically engage the elections 2023? We have maintained that we must engage all spaces to truly change Nigeria. The elections present a time to fight. But, it is a process full of illusions. The battles over direct and indirect primaries are rubbish argument premised on how the rulers would rig from the parties. In the first place, the independence of the political parties is being trampled upon with the New Electoral Bill’s undue interventions in party primaries. This reminds us of how they are all working to make sure there is no party of the masses. The rulers are colluding with INEC to steal our party but we have been giving them a good run for their money both politically and legally. We are calling on all oppressed to join the most consistent revolutionary party and movement which is the AAC and TIB. We need to all come together to start battling these spineless and rogue rulers so we can show that we are the real owners of Nigeria. I therefore call on many of our friends and comrades who are yet to be committed to the party to join and start building now. We need to start early as we do not have the resources and capacity the rulers have access to. What are your final words? While millions of our people are happy and partying, let us all know that with the level of heavy borrowings by the Buhari government, they are bound to increase fuel price, and devalue the naira. Things will be harder. But, when we fight harder and more united, the rulers will be defeated. I ask that we should all open our eyes. The country is already endangered, but we have unfinished business of revolution to complete in 2022. We also have a world to win beyond Africa and the world at large. Like the late Bob Marley asserted in his classic track, ‘Zimbabwe’, arms in arms with arms, we will win!