LAGOS  – A non-profit organisation committed to improving foundational learning challenges and provision of opportunities for low-income children, Teach For Nigeria (TFN), has expressed commitment to grow over 20,000 leaders as it marks its fifth anniversary. Speaking during a media parley recently, Alero Ayida-Otobo, Board Member and Co-Founder, TFN Teach recalled that Teach For Nigeria was conceptualised in 2014 at the 20th Nigerian Economic Summit (NES) in a bid to transform the Nation’s education sector given the problems faced by the sector at the time. She said the initiative has made significant changes and improvements that have not only impacted the sector but improved the future outcomes for children. JAMB Has No Business In Varsity Enrolment – ASUU Universities Urge AU, EU To Support Clusters Of Excellence “Teach For Nigeria is a model and prototype of what is possible in the educational space in Nigeria and will continue to raise an army of leaders that understand the educational problems, design the solutions and impact children in their classrooms and beyond.” Folawe Omikunle, CEO, Teach For Nigeria, in her presentation assured that the organisation remained committed to the vision to ensure that, “one day, every Nigerian child has access to an excellent education.” “We remain committed to recruiting cohorts of promising leaders to provide extensive support and teach in communities that are experiencing economic and social injustice. Omikunle said, “Our solutions are bold and by 2031 we would have built a network of over 20,000 leaders across all geopolitical zones in Nigeria working in deep partnership with local communities to impact over a million students each year. “According to data captured during the outbreak of the pandemic in its impact assessment report, the numeracy skills of students taught by Teach for Nigeria fellows improved by 116% while literacy has grown by over 60%. More than 600 fellows are impacting over 100,000 primary school students in Lagos, Ogun and more recently, Oyo State.” POLL Commenting on the anniversary, Gbenga Oyebode, Chairman of Teach for Nigeria, said in five years TFN has focused on helping children from the most vulnerable backgrounds to learn by placing outstanding leaders to teach in classrooms through its two-year fellowship.