ABUJA – Stakeholders on Thursday in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, called on the Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), James Akpanudoedehe, to run for the office of the Governor of the State in the 2023 elections. They also commended what they described as “Akpanudoedehe’s sound educational qualification and knowledge of the political environment, enviable track record in public service, political party administration, vast experience in business, local government administration and exposure to national politics as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” A communique issued to newsmen in Abuja after the meeting in the state and signed by over forty elder statesmen noted that the APC scribe has what it takes to win the 2023 gubernatorial election for the party. Basketball Africa League Announces Teams As Season Commences… Going Diabolical Will Not Save You, EFCC Warns Yahoo Boys According to the communique, Akpanudoedehe’s “love for humanity and service to the people, relentless energy to mobilize the people, as well as his capacity to interact with the grassroots, put him forward as one with the greatest potential that can win the election for the party in Akwa Ibom State.” “After exhaustive deliberation, the motion was overwhelmingly passed with a notation for the resolution taken by a credible collection of Akwa Ibom APC stakeholders to be conveyed to the Distinguished Senator.” The meeting also reviewed various issues of national interest and commended President Muhammadu Buhari, ‘s efforts at managing the country’s, economy and the war against corruption. “The meeting commended and appreciated our son, Pastor Senator John James Akpanudoedehe (PhD) for his tenacity to hold-forth and strong his duty and responsibility as the National Secretary of our great Party; enduring the pressures on all sides to ensure the entrenchment of 34 out of the 36 APC State Executive Committees in the country,” it added. This is as the group passed a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari for “securing the nation from insurgency and banditry, reviving the economy, promoting a return to agriculture and ensuring food sufficiency and vast improvements in our national infrastructure.” POLL Similarly, it commended the APC National Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, “for the able and effective manner he has piloted the affairs of the party and fulfilled the core mandate of its assignment which is to convene the National convention now scheduled to hold on the 26th of February 2022.”