The Lagos State government recently embarked on several road rehabilitation and construction projects. But in the course of attending to the challenges and pains of the residents on the attendant gridlocks that have claimed several lives and affected businesses negatively, some residents observed that the project has also added more pains as it complicated traffic jams. They felt the roads are constructed simultaneously, causing obstructions and the alternative roads are sometimes also jam-packed. Road users who actually appreciated the government’s gesture want the authority to attend to the neck-breaking vehicular traffic in construction areas. OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA writes In its 2022 outlook, the Financial Derivatives Company (FDC), the Nigerian research and investment firm revealed that on the average, Lagos residents spend more than 1,000 hours in traffic annually. The report says the figure dwarfs the time people in London expend in congestions. FDC, led by economist, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, also highlighted in the report published in January 2022, that while Lagos residents spend 1,080 hours in traffic a year, residents of London spend about 148 hours. DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit APC Protecting Those Behind Adulterated Fuel Importation,… Lagos unarguably is the largest city in West Africa with an estimated population of more than 22 million people and still growing. Apart from being the hub of business, it is also a transportation hub, with over 10 million passengers transported daily, posing a great challenge to traffic management, flow, and safety. “Every state has its own peculiar problem. Some states are facing the challenge of Boko Haram, some have bandits, some have kidnappers and some cultist groups troubling them, but in Lagos, what they have as a major challenge is the traffic bedlams,” Tayo Aboyeji, Chairman, NUPENG, Lagos State, quipped. As a developing state, the government is ever working to improve the state of its road networks and infrastructures; giving rise to various construction exercises of old and new roads, requiring road closures, restriction of vehicular movements and traffic diversions, culminating into traffic gridlocks at the axis where such construction projects are ongoing. Since the beginning of his administration in May 2019, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has maintained his commitment to bringing the Blue and Red Line projects to fruition during the lifetime of his government as part of efforts to tackle the menace of gridlock and waste of man-hours in Lagos. The government, therefore, embarked on several road rehabilitation and construction projects. But in the course of attending to the challenges and pains of Lagos residents on the gridlocks that have claimed several lives and affected businesses negatively, some residents observed that massive construction of roads has also added more pains as it complicated traffic jams. POLL This, according to them, was because the project was not spaced out over a period of time to allow free movement of commuters. Evaluating the economic implications of the daily traffic congestion in the Lagos State, a Lagos-based research institute, Danne Institute for Research, said in its recent report that Lagos State loses over N4 trillion yearly as a result of its notorious traffic congestion problem. According to the Institute, the loss is the economic cost of the estimated 14.12 million hours lost by Lagosians while commuting to and from work or business every day. Founder and Executive Director of the Institute, Professor Franca Ovadje said in the report, “We found that the cost to individuals of traffic congestion is N133,978.68 per annum for those who own their vehicles and N79,039.40 each year for those who use public transport. The total loss to Lagos is estimated at 14.12million hours per day or N3,834,340,158,870 per annum.” Aramide Adeyoye, Special Adviser to the State Governor on works and infrastructure, said, during the annual ministerial press briefing in the month of April last year, that the Sanwo-Olu-led administration will be constructing about 43 more roads in addition to the 51 already constructed in the first two years of his administration. According to her, the roads include Oba Sekunmade Road, Agric Isawo Road, St. Finbarrs and Iwaya Roads, Lekki-Epe Expressway, from Eleko Junction to Epe T junction, and also Lekki Regional road project. Others are Hospital Road in Badagry, Abaranje road network in Alimosho and Reverend Braithwaite in Epe and Adeniji Adele Road. From findings, Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that the construction of these roads has reached advanced stages with some already completed while new ones have been started, but the challenges encountered by road users in the course of their constructions are the same nonetheless as time and money are lost in the process. One Killed, Several Injured As Park Managers, ‘Federal… Mbappe Strike Against Rennes Enough To Extend PSG Lead At Ligue… Motorists plying these ongoing construction zones will need to make use of alternative routes, owing to statutory diversions made by the authorities. Diversions are made to adjoining streets of the road being constructed, subjecting the alternative routes to a high number of vehicular movements, resulting in traffic bedlams with resonating effects to all adjoining streets, roads, avenues, with crippling effects on all forms of businesses. For example, residents and motorists on Deji Aladejobi Street in Bariga who spoke with our correspondent appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to speedily complete the road expansion from the Bariga garage end to Ilaje bus stop. They made the appeal in separate interviews, while expressing excitement at the ongoing construction work but urged for speedy completion of the projects to ease the hardship they are experiencing since the project started over nine months ago. Massive construction works are also ongoing at Eleko, Ibeju, Bogije, Oke-Ogun and Epe, among other places, with the State Government saying that the 18.7km, six-lane rigid pavement carriageway from Eleko Junction in Ibeju-Lekki to Epe T-junction would be completed and inaugurated in the first quarter of this year. However, Kareem Asade, a driving school operator in the area said, “We will appreciate the speedy completion of the project, to ease vehicular movement in that axis. The development comes with its own challenges, the traffic and onelane issue we are experiencing is affecting our businesses and the road contractors are still working on one lane while the other lanes are abandoned.” A resident, Mrs. Modinat Saliu, lamented the slow pace of work. “I pray the road contractors to meet the mandate and directive of the state Governor,” she said. But Mr. Akin Ogungbemi, another resident, expressed satisfaction at the construction work and expressed appreciation to the state government for a job well done, imploring motorists and commuters to be patient and to cooperate with the government on the ongoing projects. “Nothing good comes easy. It is a matter of sacrifice which comes with pains, but at the end, it will end in praises,” he said. Ogungbemi expressed optimism about the quick completion of the projects, stressing that with the speed the contractors were working day and night, the projects would be delivered on time. A motorist, Mr. Chima Paul, a commercial bus driver applauded the level of progress made on the St. Finbarrs and Iwaya Roads, urging the government to speed up their completion. He said, “We will all enjoy the route upon completion of the road projects, but it has not been easy for us, commercial drivers. The journey of one hour now takes about three hours due to the road construction. Before now, we ply our routes nine times a day, but today, we hardly do four trips in a day. It is really telling on our business, but we appreciate the development the road projects will bring to both residents and other road users,” he added. Meanwhile, in continuation of the ongoing construction on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, which has now attained an ad­vanced stage, the state govern­ment has announced plans to divert traffic as it embarks on the casting of the Iyana-Iba Interchange Bridge round deck today Saturday, February 12, 2022, for the duration of 24 hours. The streets where traffic is diverted to are currently bear­ing the burden of heavy traf­fic gridlock generated by the diversion. Oladeinde assured that men of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authori­ty (LASTMA) will be available to manage the traffic flow and minimise inconvenience. The Lagos State Government on January 28 announced the diversion of traffic from Yaba in order to continue with construc­tion works on the first phase of the Red Line railway track cov­erring Oyingboto Agbado. The di­version which is in furtherance of the Lagos Rail Mass Transit projectbeganon Tuesday, Febru­ary 1, 2022, lasting for two weeks on February 16. Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, State Commissioner for Trans­portation, said that motorists heading to Muritala Moham­med Way from Western Ave­nue will be diverted to Empire Road at Jibowu while traffic inbound Yaba will be diverted to Empire Road for access to Western Avenue. He added that motorists on Herbert Macaulay will be able to connect Empire Road to access Western Avenue for their desired destinations. He also revealed that sig­nage will be placed on the ac­cess roads while the officials of the LASTMA will also be on the ground to manage traf­fic flow and minimise inconve­niences. The government also announced on January 18, the diversion of traffic on Dopemu road in Agege from January 21, 2022, for the rehabilitation and upgrade of Babajide San­wo-Olu road for a duration of three months. The announcement was also made by the state’s com­missioner for transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, who explained that this would pave way for repair works on the road, which will be executed in three phases, adding that the first phase of the project will focus on Ipaja Road to Adealu Street junction, which will last for three months. Oladeinde said alternative routes have been mapped by LASTMA to enhance effective control of vehicular move­ment along the axis during the duration of the construction. He advised motorists inbound Dopemu Bridge from Iyana Ip­aja/Alagba axis to go through the Ipaja road to connect Oye­wole Street into Seriki Street to link Kolawole and Adebam­bo Streets in order to access Adealu Road for their desired destination. The commissioner also implored motorists heading towards the Dopemu bridge, from Ipaja (Oke-Koto) to use Markaz Road to connect Awori Street and link Sarumi Alamo Street/Oniwaya and Surulere to continue their journey. He said motorists can alternately go through Alfa Nla from Old Ipaja Road to connect Oni­waya/Surulere axis to reach Dopemu Bridge. He further called for the support of citizens, assuring them that the inconvenience will soon yield the desired outcome through an effective multi-modal transportation system in the state. The Junc­tion Improvement Works at Awolowo Way/Kodesho/Oba Akran underpass by Computer Village in the Ikeja area since September last year is still on­going to last for eight months. A few months back chaos broke out on Sunday on the expressway after Julius Berg­er Nigeria Plc partially shut down Magboro and Warewa, Ogun State ends of the high­way. Thousands of travellers moving inwards Lagos State and those bound for Ogun State were trapped at the various bottlenecks. For several hours, traffic was at a standstill. While many motorists struggled to wriggle their way out of the logjam, officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps, whose office was at the MFM, Magboro end of the road, stood aloof. The situation em­boldened some commercial drivers and motorists to drive against traffic, which further compounded the gridlock. Due to the traffic, some vehicles de­veloped mechanical faults and broke down, further worsening the situation.