YENAGOA – The Board of Editors of Independent Newspapers, publishers of Daily Independent, Saturday Independent and Sunday Independent titles, has voted Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State the Governor of the Year 2021. Diri emerged the best governor in the ‘Good Governance and Responsive Leadership’ category, according to the award notification letter presented to him by the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief of the newspaper, Steve Omanufeme. The awards ceremonies will hold on Saturday, March 5, 2022 at the Convention Centre of the Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, in Lagos. [UPDATE] Lagos State PDP Congress: Diri Charges Delegates On… Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… Omanufeme led the newspaper’s management to present the award notification letter to Diri in Lagos on Saturday. He said that the award is in recognition of the Bayelsa governor’s outstanding performance in just two years in office. “This award is in recognition of your exceptional contribution to good governance and responsive leadership in Bayelsa State. Since assumption of office, Bayelsa under your watch has witnessed remarkable development and progress in virtually all sectors. “Your Excellency’s works speak volumes and attest to a man well prepared to take the state to the next level. Yours is a model of verifiable achievements, which is in line with the philosophy of this award: Celebrating Trailblazers and Exceptional Nigerians,” the letter stated. Diri thanked the management of the newspaper for the honour, noting that it was one of the few awards he accepted to receive out of a plethora he had turned down in the last two years. POLL He said, “I am not an awards-inclined person. That is why in the last two years I have declined several awards and nominations. I have always focused on delivering good governance and on development of our state. “My abiding commitment remains service to the people of Bayelsa and our country. I intend to focus on this throughout my time in office. By God’s grace we will not be distracted from the task we have set for ourselves and our state to make it better than we met it.”