ABUJA – The Federal Government on Monday announced a scholarship award to the level of Doctor of Philosophy(Ph.D) to three students who emerged as the best in the 2022 Edition of Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award (774YONPA) drawn from the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, announced this while presenting certificates to the three winners of the competition drawn from Gombe State(first position), Ogun State(second position) and Edo State (third position), in Abuja, explained that the winners would be formally presented to President Muhammadu Buhari during the Science and Technology Fair slated for next month. The scholarship award to the three students, according to Onu, would enable them to study from their secondary school level to the Ph.D level in any University of their choice in Nigeria. US Response To Security Guarantee Proposals Cannot Satisfy… Tight Oil Market Could See Prices Hit $125 In Q2 – JP… Onu said the participating students were drawn from the 774 Local Government Areas across the country, adding that the successful students from various states were eventually brought to Abuja to compete where they were tested on Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Biology. The minister pointed out that the programme which targets young Nigerians was aimed at motivating them towards careers in the Science, Technology and Innovation fields. He noted that Nigeria is yet to produce Nobel Laurel in Science, Technology and Innovation, adding that the Federal Government was eager to produce Nobel Laurels through the programme. Onu, therefore, tasked the winners and other participants to work assiduously in the realisation of the Federal Government’s dream to enhance national development. He further charged Nigerian students to embrace the study of science subjects and mathematics for the socio-economic and technological development of the country. POLL Onu noted that Nigeria should be tired of the massive importation of products and services, adding that this scenario has made Nigeria to be exporting jobs rather than creating jobs. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr. Sunday Akpan, said the ministry has successfully hosted the six editions of the 774 Young Nigerians Scientists Presidential Award. Akpan expressed optimism that the participants of the competition would break borders in the world of science. He said the ministry would follow up on their progress in the field of science, adding that the future of the country depends on science and technology. The Permanent Secretary who commended the participating States for their efforts which have resulted in the success of the science competition urged them not to relent in lending to the development of science, technology and innovation.