LAGOS  – United Nigeria Airlines (UNA) and Air Peace are set to sign a deal that would revolutionise the aviation sector and usher in a new era of collaboration for better travel experience, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, the Chairman of UNA has said. Speaking at the Gala and Award Night held in Abuja to commemorate the first year anniversary celebration of UNA, Okonkwo said that the partnership would be unveiled in the “next few days.” Okonkwo explained that collaboration between the two airlines was long overdue for the sector. How DBN’s Grants Of N439bn Credit Facility Will Boost 180… CDC/BII Partners FirstBank To Support Women, Small Business… According to him, such partnerships would enhance business and improve capacity of airlines to overcome certain issues that lead to flight delays. “In the next few days, we are going to sign an agreement with Air Peace of collaborations that will improve travel experiences in the country and also help address certain problems that arise in the course of flight operations”, he said. Okonkwo also drew attention to the habit of passengers physically assaulting airline staff and also, destroying airline and airport property as a way of expressing anger over flight delays or cancellations. Reminding that the resort to such actions are uncivil, Okonkwo said airline staff and property were not in any way connected to issues that usually lead to flight delays and or cancellation. He said: “Those airline officials that are beaten up and the property that are destroyed are not in any way connected to factors that cause flight delays. Those airline officials that are assaulted are husbands, mothers, sisters, brother etc., of people. They are working for their pay and do not have any hand in reasons flights are delayed. I am happy that AON (Airline Operators of Nigeria) has condemned this development. POLL “People ought to understand that no airline operator takes delight in keeping his aircraft on ground. Operators make money when their aircraft is flying. Aircraft on ground is loss to operators. So, when delays or cancellations happen, they happen for the safety of the traveler. ‘Flight delays and cancelations happen in the aviation sector all over the world. When they happen, they are mostly for the safety of the passenger. So, I plead with our customers to show better understanding in this regard.” Commending the 16 officials of the company who won different awards for their outstanding performance during the year, Okonkwo said that the striking that realisation that almost all the awardees had no prior experience in the aviation sector, but had worked steadily to become the best. development about the staff was ‘Every job opportunity at United Nigeria Airlines, is also an opportunity to develop veritable human capital for the industry and we are glad that we have some of the best in the industry who have also applied their expertise to train and nurture these greenhorns”, he added. Plaques for best performing staff of the year 2021 were presented to 16 staff of the organization while Asaba won the best performing station alongside Osubi, which was decorated as the best United Nigeria Airlines First Anniversary celebration. LCCI Holds Maiden Media Stakeholders’ Forum The Address Homes Unveils Two New Luxury Brands In Lagos The event was graced by officials of agencies in the aviation sector, members of the diplomatic corps, leadership of aviation companies and friends of the airline who were treated to great musical entertainment and dance.