The National Treasurer of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Comrade Olusiji Sowande has declared that free education is achievable in Nigeria if the government can cut its needless spending so that the country can be on the path of development to compete favourable with other countries of the world. Just as the educational stakeholders including students, civil society groups, unionists, scholars, administrators among others have advised the ASUU to change its focus in the fight for the survival of tertiary education in the country. Sowande made the declaration as  one of the guest presenters at a Symposium organised by the Workers’ Education and Civil Society Liaison Committee (WECSLC) of ASUU, University of Ibadan Chapter with the theme “The Role of ASUU in The Rescue of Public Education in Nigeria” held at the Large Lecture Theatre of the Faculty of Arts, UI. LASU 2021 7th ICT Public Lecture: Experts Commend Govt, CBN On… PDP Governorship Candidate Promises Free Education The event was held under the Chairmanship of a former Deputy Vice-Chancellor of UI, Prof Ambrose Ayelari, who was also a former Secretary of ASUU in the institution Sowande accused the government of spending a huge amount of money on developing software to take care of human resources, a record of government workers as well as their payroll despite effort of the Union to support such effort through affordable local content. According to him, “When we are talking about education being free at all levels, it means that we are right because we knew the humongous amount of money that government is wasting even on political issues. If they manage it well and redistribute our resources, at every levels, Nigerians will have adequate and qualitative education and it will bring about development at all levels, then we can compete favourable with other developed countries. “That is what ASUU is pursuing, fund education property and adequately, let us use our resources properly o the extent that it will be our decision and not foreign policies impose on us by international lending bodies”. He added that the Unions fight for the education sector is within its constitutional purview as a labour saying “Our constitution allowed us as a labour Union to deal with every issues that are labour related and that is why we are justified to fight for adequate funding of education, good life for all Nigerians, good governance and so everything we are doing are not outside of our constitution.” POLL Speaking earlier on why the Union has continued to agitate and tackle the government, the Chairman of the symposium, Prof Ambrose Ayelari, explained that the university teachers were products of the system but have looked and seen how things keep going bad saying they will not continue to fold their hands and watch the system collapse. According to him,  “Like we keep telling people, if ASUU goes on strike, and we win, what we have won from the strike most times is not for our pockets but for the system. We are talking about funding of university education. If for instance UI would have enough fund, who benefits, the system of course. We ASUU members will not get more than our salaries but the university will be better for it. “We are not happy that what we went through in training, we cannot even give it to our old students now and that is why ASUU continue to do that. ASUU is a Union of teachers. Many of us passed through this system, we saw things and we cannot keep our eyes closed when things are not done the right way. Whether anybody like it or not, we will continue to do what is best for us, what is best for the university and this country.” Speaking on what the Union had learnt from the symposium, Chairman, ASUU-UI branch, Comrade Ayoola Akinwole described the event as an eye opener as the Union has seen the need for continuous interaction with other like minds to achieve better results in the fight for the interest of public varsity. “It has been an eye-opener really. Students, civil society and all others have come here to talk. The takeaway is that we can always continue to interact, we must interact. What we can deduce is that, the struggle is not a one Union job. The students, the lecturers, the parents and most importantly, the government all have roles to play. Street Lighting: Lagos Govt. covers 1,300km in 3 years Flood: Customs Donates Relief Materials To Adamawa Govt “But, in all these, whenever the lecturers, parents, students unite for a common voice, the government will have no choice than to fall in line. We have learnt that ASUU cannot do it alone without the support of the students. The students too cannot do it alone without the support of the lecturers. Parents cannot get the best out of their wards without the support of both the students and lecturers and then. “Finally, we found out that we battle against a common enemy and that is the ruling class. It is a holistic thing that everybody must play its own parts so that when ASUU is on the street, when we look back we expect that the students are behind us, and that when the students are protesting about inadequate facilities, they expect lecturers to be at the back, supporting them and we also expect parents to be at the back to join the voices of the staff and students in making sure that the government do the right thing at the right time.” In their separate remarks the students, representatives of the civil society, Comrade Rashidat Adeshina and Comrade Abiodun Bamgboye urged ASUU to improve on its public awareness of its activities through the media while also calling on Nigerians to take their destiny into their own hands and support causes that are in the interest of the future.