The Securities and Exchange Commission has reaffirmed that it is committed to making the capital market attractive to Nigerians of all ages and economic status. Mr. Lamido Yuguda, Director General of the SEC stated this during a meeting with a team lead by the British Deputy High Commissioner in Abuja, Friday. Yuguda said the Commission is implementing various initiatives to ensure that products and offerings in the market are accessible to both the young and old which he said would further deepen the market. Arla Partners Tolaram On Kaduna Commercial Dairy Farm How Nigeria Can Shore Up Non-Oil Export – Analysts According to him, “When we assumed office, we were shocked to know that the average age of the Central Securities Clearing System account holder was over 50 years. The CSCS is a depository so if you are investing in equities you must have a CSCS account. “The average age of that account holder was over 50, and that told us that the young people were not participating in this market and when young people are not participating in any market, that market is doomed to fail. And young people today prefer to do things on their phones, if you have to fill a stack of forms manually young people won’t do it. We want to make investing in the capital market a fun experience. “The capital market experience starts with a bank account and eventually the distribution has to hit a bank account as well. So, we decided to look at the whole process and find out what is turning young people off. We have started the process and seen how the tech companies are providing much needed relief to the kind of bureaucracy that happens in the capital market. Yuguda disclosed that the SEC recently approved an e-offer for MTN and expressed the excitement of the Commission that Nigerians especially those of the younger age bracket were able to participate in the offer. According to him, “It was marvellously successful and we are very excited about it. A lot of young people who had never invested in the capital market took the MTN offer.”