MINNA – A group of youths under the aegis of All Progressive Congress (APC) Youth Organisations and Stakeholders Thursday declared their support for the candidature of Senator Sani Musa for the National Chairmanship of the party. The solidarity in support of Senator Musa, one of the nine contenders to the seat from the North-central Zone and one of the two contenders from Niger state is coming on the heels of his formal endorsement by Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello of Niger State. Governor Bello gave the endorsement when the Niger State Caucus in the Senate paid him a sympathy visit over the series of attacks on some communities in the state and to seek his support for Senator Musa to become the National Chairman of the ruling party. APC Chairmanship Not Do -or-Die Affair – Yari, Almakura,… Why APC Needs Rugged, Experienced Candidate As Chairman –… The Governor in response to the request to support Senator Sani Musa (Sani 313) had told his guests that he believes that the aspirant will exhibit a high sense of purposeful leadership that will give the ruling party a good direction. Governor Bello who nevertheless reminded Senator Musa that there are many contenders for the chairmanship seat especially from the north-central said, “As a leader in the zone I am open to all the aspirants especially those from the zone, but of course, your own is your own and pulling this crowd makes a statement”. Addressing journalists at the IBB Pen House, yesterday, the spokesperson for the concerned groups, Mallam Abdullahi Suleiman said the Senate Committee Chairman on Senate Services is the most qualified for the party’s top job. Suleiman who was flanked by Tanko Kumiya, an ex-officio of the party in the state said Senator Musa has maintained a sound relationship with his colleagues in the Senate, worked for the success of the APC at both state and national level and as well had friends across parts of the country. Against condemnations of the Senator’s alleged insensitivity to the continued killings of his people in zone B (Niger-East) and the destruction of properties by armed bandits, Suleiman said Senator Musa believed that his current aspiration is another call to national service just like his current position as Senator representing the zone. POLL “His antecedents show that he is consistent in the Senate, and his position as the Chairman House Committee on Senate Services well justified. The long vacuum in the APC national chairmanship seat required the person of Senator Musa as the most suitable”. The group further told journalists, “One unique quality of Sani 313 is the usual tranquillity he has brought to Niger-East, and by extension, Niger state in the areas of security, employment, education, women and youths empowerment amongst others”.