LAGOS – Wife of the Inspector General of Police and National President of the Police Officers Wives Association, (POWA), Hajiya Hajara Usman Alkali Baba, has disclosed that her administration has set out a well-defined three points agenda which includes Health, Welfare and Education for the betterment of police officers wives in the nation. Hajiya Alkali-Baba urged all women to take the issue of their health seriously because health is wealth. She made this admonition in Lagos on Wednesday during the flag-off of the Cancer Screening exercise held at the POWA multi-purpose hall, Ikeja. Zamfara Dep. Gov. Impeached, Gov. Replaces Him With Senator UCL: Substitute Yaremchuk Scores Equaliser As Benfica-Ajax… The IGP’s wife said the outreach is quite timely when Nigerian women bear the highest cancer burden as the top cancers namely: Breast, cervical and ovarian cancer mostly occurs in women. “We are exceedingly grateful for this worthy partnership set out by Monitor Healthcare and Sebeccly Cancer Care in partnership with POWA as this is a well-intended and deliberate step taken to alleviate the burden of cancer in Nigeria. “As you grant kindness to 400 members of POWA in this free but unique exercise today which shall be running through the four days scheduled, Let me assure you that Posterity does not forget in a hurry these act of kindness as we urge other development partners to follow suit. “As a responsive and proactive organization, POWA under my leadership is ever willing and ready to partner with you in the fight to defeat this monster called cancer. “And this we hope to do through sensitization, responsiveness, and care for the victims of cancer. This is what my administration has set out to do in a well-defined three points agenda namely: Health, Welfare and Education. POLL “I wish to urge us today to take this exercise very seriously in the fight against breast and cervical cancer and urge our partners to replicate this same gesture across the zones of police formations as it is a sure way to reduce the unfortunate rise in statistics of cancer, through the provision of cancer prevention services, early detection of cancer and prompt treatment. “My advice for everyone is to listen to the physicians here today, it’s for your own good, it took us months to organize this event, it is true that some of you may be able to afford it but some women can’t afford it and prevention is better than cure. Also speaking at the flag-off event, the wife of the commissioner of police, Lagos State, Mrs Tosin Alabi- welcomed the Inspector General’s wife to the state for the screening exercise which kicked started in Lagos among the Police officers’ wives. A medical practitioner, Dr Femi Ogunremi who charged the women on the need to constantly check themselves of any changes in their body said periodic screening is of necessity. The doctor said the ratio of women suffering from cancer in developed countries is higher than that of Africa but there are more survivors because they get them screened regularly. Salah, Mane Hit Braces As Liverpool Hammer Leeds, Close In On… Mee Heads Burley To Crucial Win Over Tottenham “Our story in Nigeria is that some ladies will have health problems which they don’t know what it is or the cause and instead of going to the hospital, they are praying. Cancer cells are wicked cells, and while it’s undetected, the lumps keep growing till it becomes uncontrollable. “Other countries have many survivors because they do screening routinely. Here we are afraid of cancer because we did not know what to do and end up doing the wrong thing. Women should always examine their breasts periodically and monitor their health,” he said. DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that at the flag-off event, several police officers’ wives were sensitized on the need for regular check-ups and they were being screened for breast and cervical cancer-free of charge.