Honourable Moshood Salvador, a chieftain of the All Progressives Progress (APC) and leader of Conscience Forum, in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU speaks about the quality President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor should have, why the APC must ensure there is proper reconciliation within the party, among other issues. Excerpts: Olajide Adeniran popularly called Jandor defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from your party, don’t you think that will affect your party’s fortune at the 2023 general elections? Definitely it will. Minus one is different from plus one and no any right thinking political party will encourage that. It is always better to avoid losing members because democracy is a game of number. I can never say that Jandor’s defection cannot affect us. Even if we are going to have 2 million votes before, it will be reduced to 1.2 million or 1.7 million. We should be happy to increase our number and not reduce it. It is only those who are not real politicians, but benefiting from the system and they just want to say something. Ugwuanyi Declares Council Election Peaceful In Enugu ESN Not Unknown Gunmen, Says IPOB I want to get your view on Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s presidential ambition and how some people are of the view that the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Fayemi and the rest of them from the South-West, who have been mentored by the former Lagos State governor, do not have the moral justification to run against their benefactor. What are your thoughts on that? I agree with them that Asiwaju mentored them but some people also mentored Asiwaju, they should always remember that. I can confidently tell you that Asiwaju that I know is a man that believes that his children should be greater than him. I know he is not a forceful and rigid person the way some people are thinking. The people that you just mentioned, the Vice President, Fayemi should know the track to toe. Don’t be surprised that he might decide to give them support, if they go about it the right way. As Asiwaju is doing consultation, let them do consultation with Asiwaju too. They should decide among themselves who to come out so that we can start work on anyone who the South-West decides to support. Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a lot of Nigerians have shown interest they want to succeed Buhari, from the two major political parties, the APC and the PDP, what do you think should be the qualification anyone who wants to be President should have, considering where we are coming from? When people start talking about economy, insecurity and other challenges, they forget that it is hardship that produces insecurity. To control the hardship, you have to improve on your economy. Nigeria in 1985, 86 was moving towards becoming the world economic power, when we had the likes of Michelin, Peugeot Nigeria, Volkswagen and so many of them. Are we going to talk of textile industry? The entire Oworo Shoki express road was filed up with textile firms. They were more than 10 on that road then. If you consider the pharmaceutical industry, PZ was one of them. We had a lot of industries that dotted the major cities across the country. Today where are these industries? It is only when you have such industries that you can create jobs for the youths. The prices if things will go down as long as we are in production and our raw materials are locally sourced. This is what Dangote is trying to turn Nigeria into. We can get it right in 2023 if we are ready because it doesn’t take rocket science but commitment to sincerity of purpose. China got it right and chose economic liberation to become one of the super powers in the world. Nigeria is the best country in the world with the best of opportunities in resources to be super power. We need a President that can coordinate investors globally to get us there.. We must stop appreciation people for monetary value but human quality I wake up every day to pray for Dangote because of his initiatives and courage for the industrialization of Nigeria. We need five or six of Dangote to become upper rich. His ongoing refinery in Lagos State is the starting point to the nation’s economic transformation and liberation. The office of the president is a symbolic representation of and a projection of us as a people and the kind of country that we aspire to build. Is our goal wasteful country that filters away potential of our youths or a prudent one that not only preserves but nurtures the future of all our children who will live with the consequences of our decisions after we have gone? America’s 35th President, John Kennedy once observed that when history eventually sits in judgment where each of us, our vindication will depend on the answer that we provide to all basic questions, were we truly men of courage? Were we truly men of judgment? Where we truly men of integrity? Were we truly men of courage, judgment, integrity, dedication for values which define a man’s life and destiny? These are questions that we must pose to those who offer themselves who offer themselves for leadership at this crucial juncture of our nation’s political history. The questions that we must answer ourselves before putting our thumbs to the ballot paper, if our unity will be preserved and progress achieved, we must answer them truthfully and make a choice that best reflect our resolve for a better Nigeria. You talked about competence; some people think that age is a barrier to achievement especially if age is not on the side of the leader. Some even talked about pegging the age of a presidential aspirant to 60 years. What are your thoughts on the issue of age? POLL It is a political statement to say that anybody who is 65 or 70 years is too old to be a President. Is the President going to carry a cutlass to the farm or is he going to go to the hospital to give injections to patients? It is the capacity of the person to coordinate the best brains and serve the people. It is health that they should talk about and not age. You can see Baba Ayo Adebanjo at 93, how he coordinates his statements. He makes quality presentations to the media. You can hear Chief Edwin Clark at 94, he will be talking of something that happened 60 years ago as though it just happened yesterday. We have seen 30 or 40 years people who talk and lose track. It is not a matter of age but health. Your party inaugurated 37 state chairmen of your party when there are still aggrieved persons after the congress across the country. Don’t you think that will affect your party’s fortune in 2023 when it has not been established that there was proper reconciliation? If they go ahead to inaugurate without proper reconciliation, it is only nailing its coffin. If they continue to say that some people are not important, they will live to regret it. You can imagine the reconciliation committee coming to Lagos Sate and visiting the governor’s office, turn round to say that there was no parallel executive committee (exco) in Lagos that they have all resolved the issues. I am using this medium to send the message to Mr. President. They are deceiving Mr. President. Our group conscience forum has more than 300,000 members in Lagos alone. Where will people say that even 10 people are not important? It is never done in politics. What are your thoughts on the insertions in the electoral acts amendment bill presented to Mr. President by the National Assembly? It is very important that they should give flexibility to political parties. If the APC and the PDP, which have others across the country, can afford to conduct direct primaries, what about other smaller parties who don’t have money? We know what it cost to conduct direct primaries. How do you expect them to perform? You will be killing them. Let there be direct, indirect and consensus. Electoral Act: Buhari Won’t Remain In Office Beyond 2023,… Oyo PDP Berates Olopoeyan For His Alleged Bitterness Against… What about the insertion requiring serving appointees, like Ministers resigning before contesting for political offices? It is already there in the party constitution and our laws. The problem is that they don’t respect the respect and the only what that you can make them respect the law is that anyone who wins should be taken to court for proper interpretation of the law and I am sure that once he loses that position. Others will learn from him. What do you think is the way forward for Nigeria as a nation? The way forward is that we should go for economic liberation of the country and it is the only thing that will make us the super power of this world.