Real Madrid and PSG have reportedly tabled contract offers for Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger, who has rejected a new proposal from the Blues. According to the Daily Mail, Chelsea superstar Antonio Rudiger has rejected a fresh contract proposal from the club, leaving the door open for a summer exit. And, Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain have tabled offers to secure his signing on a free transfer. As he runs down his contract with Chelsea, Rudiger is set to become one of the most in-demand players in the summer transfer window. The German international is in his fifth season with the west London giants and has been playing some of his finest football in the past twelve months. He was crucial to the Blues UEFA Champions League and Super Cup success in 2021 and has carried on in the same vein of form. Elanga Subjected To Online Racist Abuse After FA Cup Exit Klopp Believes Salah, Mane’s AFCON Exploits Will Help Liverpool However, Rudiger’s contract with Chelsea stands to expire at the end of the season, and the club’s attempts to tie him down to a new deal have not gone according to plans. Currently on wages of around £100,000-a-week, the former AS Roma star is believed to have turned down an offer worth £140,000 per week from the reigning European champions. As per the latest updates, Chelsea held informal talks over another proposal, tabling a deal worth £200,000 per week. But, Rudiger is believed to have turned it down, indicating that he could be on his way out in the summer. As things stand, either Real Madrid or PSG appear to be the most likely destination for the 28-year-old, with both clubs making pre-contract offers for the German. Real Madrid signed just one defender last summer in David Alaba after losing Sergio Ramos and Raphael Varane. The Austrian has forged a solid partnership with Eder Militao, but the Merengues lack quality beyond the two, with Nacho being more of a utility man whereas manager Carlo Ancelotti does not favour Jesus Vallejo. So, a new defender is at the top of the shopping list for Real Madrid, with Rudiger emerging as a priority target. Reports indicated that Los Blancos had opened formal talks with the Chelsea star last month. And, it is now being claimed that the Spanish capital outfit have made a contract proposal to sign him on a free transfer later this year. PSG, too, have a long-standing interest in Rudiger and have been monitoring his situation for a while now. While they have Marquinhos and Presnel Kimpembe as their first-choice pairing, backup options Thilo Kehrer and Abdou Diallo have not been convincing enough, whereas Ramos has endured a torrid debut season due to injuries. POLL Signing a proven defender like Rudiger, who will add experience and winning mentality to the team, will help PSG take a step closer towards their ambition of winning the UEFA Champions League. And, they are believed to have made a contract offer, reportedly in the region of €7 million per year. With Rudiger rejecting Chelsea’s latest contract offer, it seems like he will be on his way out in the summer. And, it remains to be seen who among Real Madrid and PSG end up signing him.