Romelu Lukaku is finally back on the score sheet. Thank goodness. It’s taken a lot longer than expected, but the Belgian netted Chelsea’s only goal during the FIFA Club World Cup semi-final against Al-Hilal. Though his celebration was rather anti-climatic, it was nice to see a change in fortune for the Belgian. Seeing him get his name on the scoresheet has been long overdue. After his shock interview with Sky Italia, a series of questionable performances has put Lukaku’s future in real jeopardy. Lukaku Apologises For Interview Discussing Inter Abramovich Settles Libel Claim Over Putin Book He has a steep hill to climb to regain the trust of not only the fans but the man at the top of the hierarchy, Roman Abramovich. Chelsea will soon come to evaluate their £97m investment and question whether or not he is the striker to take Thomas Tuchel’s team to the next step. If he wants to mend his relationship within the Chelsea camp and fan base, this is his chance to do it. Winning the Club World Cup could make this dream a reality and give Lukaku a second chance. It will be Lukaku’s first shot at winning some silverware for his boyhood club. His second coming has been far from spectacular, but it is still early days. He has a goal in the bank now so the road to redemption is back on track. It took the efforts from a Kai Havertz cross and a miskick from an Al-Hilal defender to set Lukaku up for an unmissable tap-in. Even though it was perceived as an easy shot on goal, it was needed. At that moment, his past transgressions didn’t matter to the fans. The goal made the difference, and it secured the Blues their spot in the final. POLL Chelsea fans are currently obsessed with a world where the decision-makers have Tuchel’s back no matter what happens. The fact is that Chelsea number nine has more than just the fans to win over. He must prove to Abramovich that he is worth every penny spent on him. The Russian billionaire will most likely back Tuchel if he wins the Club World Cup, but it is not that simple for Lukaku. Lukaku must play a pivotal role in winning silverware this season, and this is his chance to do so, or else he could share the same fate as Alvaro Morata. Forwards such as Fernando Torres and Timo Werner haven’t had the best Chelsea career and may have arguably not lived up to their expectations, but they both delivered when it counted and bought back Champions League medals. A prize worth the world to Abramovich. The Club World Cup is the only accolade left on Abramovich’s checklist. If Lukaku continues on this upward trajectory, bringing home the trophy in style, then maybe there can be a world where the Belgian is backed. It’s a tough ask but a necessary one.