JOS – Former Plateau APC Chairman Hon Letep Dabang, 12,000 APC Fellows Defects To Peoples Democratic party on the Plateau. Onoja Audu Jos. Former Chairman of the Plateau State Chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Hon. Latep Dabang popularly called the big Masqueradeand his supporters have decamped from the ruling party (APC) to the opposition party the People Democratic Party PDP in the State. 2023: Wike Lauds Makarfi For Saving PDP From Destruction PDP Can Only Support Presidential Candidate That Will Unite… Among the decampees were the former member of the Plateau State House of Assembly Hon. Nanpon Tom and former State Assistant Secretary of the APC Hon. Binkur N. and their supporters. The decampees were received into the PDP fold at the Langtang Mega Rally 2022 tagged the ” Great Movement.” Speaking to newsmen shortly after receiving the PDP flag at the Langtang North township Stadium Hon. Latep Dabang said PDP will take over the State in 2023 while calling on all right-thinking people in Plateau State who are in APC to return back home to the PDP, saying APC is not a quality party. According to Latep Dabang said by the Grace of God, PDP will win the Pankshin South State Constituency and Jos North/ Bassa Federal Constituency by-elections slated for 26th February this month. “I have a full assurance that PDP will win because i don’t have any doubt in my mind, the two by-elections PDP will win them, Plateau people will say bye-bye to APC”. POLL Hon. Latep who decamp to PDP with the Former State Assistant Secretary of the APC Hon. Binkur N. Among other Political bigwigs said he will deploy his political arsenals against the APC in the State to ensure the PDP’s victory. On his part, the chairman of the Plateau State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party PDP Hon. Chris Hassan in his remarks at the event, said they have received over 12,000 APC members into PDP in the state. According to him, their assignment started from Langtang North LGA from where they are preparing to take PDP into Government House Rayfield come 2023. Hassan further said with the defection of these heavyweights from APC to the opposition party, they expect total victory in the 2023 general election in the State. He added that in the next few weeks, there will be another rally in Jos where the national leadership of the party is expected to receive all those who decamped from All Progressive Congress APC to the Peoples Democratic Party PDP.