BENIN – The Nigeria Police, Edo State Command, has arraigned one Chief Johnson Atseleghe ‘m’ 54 years, before an Evbuoriaria Magistrates’ Court, in Benin city over alleged assault on an octogenarian. The defendant, Johnson Atseleghe, who is the Iyesere of Warri, is being tried on a one-count charge of assault. Police Prosecutor, N. A Ukpebor Esq. told the court that the defendant committed the offence on the 31st of December, 2021 and January 1st, 2022 at Ologbo Community, Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area, Edo State. Assault: Doctors Begin 2-Day Warning Strike In Ondo Assault On Teacher: Commissioner Holds Talk With Sabo Community Ukpebor said the defendant did unlawfully assault one Grace Tietie ‘F’ by beating her up with his fist or blow and inflicted injuries on her head and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 351 of the Criminal Code Cap 48 Vol.11 Laws of the Defunct Bendel State of Nigeria 1976 as applicable in Edo State. Ukpebor said the offence contravened Sections 351 of the Criminal Code Cap. 48 Vol. 11 Law of the defunct Bendel State of Nigeria, 1976, now applicable in Edo. If found guilty, section 351 prescribes a one-year jail term for the assault. The defendant, Chief Johnson Atsekeghe however, pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against him. The Magistrate, Festus Okoro, admitted him to bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum, who must be a resident within the jurisdiction of the court. POLL The magistrate, thereafter, adjourned the case till the 22nd of March 2022 for further hearing. It will be recalled that an octogenarian, 84yrs old Mrs. Grace Tite Keke of Ologbo dukedom in Ikpoba Okha Local government area of Edo State recently called on relevant authorities to come to her rescue as she was allegedly beaten up by one chief Johnson Asheleghe, the Iyesere of Warri kingdom and his boys. Mrs. Tite Keke said some persons led by the Iyesere of Warri, Chief Johnson Asteleghe beat her and some other persons up over a certain festival normally held by the Itsekiris residing in the community She said, ” trouble started when a rival group stormed the festival ground challenging their authority to hold the festival without the consent of the Iyesere. Chief Johnson Asheleghe, the Iyesere of Warri kingdom and 8 others although granted bail are currently standing trial over the kidnap and murder of one Sunny Eitche who was killed in Ologbo dukedom on the 7th day of June 2020.