Comrade Femi Adeyeye, National Publicity Secretary, African Action Congress (AAC), is a seasoned activist and former National Secretary, Alliance of Nigerian Students Against Neo-Liberal Attacks (ANSA). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on the situation in his party and issues relating to the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: With the jostling for the 2023 general elections gathering momentum, how is your party, the AAC, preparing? The African Action Congress, since its establishment in 2018, has continued to mobilise Nigerians around its ideas and manifesto which are geared towards re-engineering society. The 2023 elections provide another opportunity to espouse these revolutionary ideas and we are more than prepared to take on the marauders scavenging on the livelihood of the Nigerian people. All internal activities to position us for the task ahead are very intact and we are doing more. South-East Presidency: A Look At Orjiakor, Ekeh, Onyeama Zoning Agitation Persists As Enugu Governorship Contenders… To what extent has the party been able to resolve its crisis which led to the emergence of a splinter group led by its firmer General Secretary, Leonard Nzenwa? There is no crisis in the AAC. The party is stable and is growing at a rate that is threatening the political establishment, so that watching it without attacking it would be at their own detriment. This is not being politically correct. It is the truth. What you have insinuated as a crisis in the AAC is actually an attack by the State and illegality perpetrated and acquiesced by INEC’s actions and inactions. If that’s not the case, how do you explain that an expelled member, who was expelled after a committee set up to hear him out over egregious allegations of misappropriation and anti-party activities, among others found him guilty, went ahead to organise a kangaroo convention to announce himself as chairman and INEC validated that? This happened despite the communication of his expulsion from the party secretariat to INEC. The chairman, Omoyele Sowore, was arrested and detained at the DSS facility in Abuja. The said individual seized the opportunity to organise such crime and INEC backed it. He was guarded by DSS officers. It was broadcast live on NTA, so you can understand that it was state-sponsored. INEC has a lot of answers to give on this matter. What is the party’s leadership doing to ensure that the party continues to expand despite the Federal Government’s face-off with the National Chairman and 2019 presidential candidate, Comrade Omoyele Sowore? The FG’s face-off with our National Chairman, Omoyele Sowore, is not a personal issue. It is an attack on rights and wherever/whenever the rights of one person is threatened, all ours rights are threatened, including those in APC or PDP. It is actually a face-off with itself, to put it in proper context. The regime is the one on trial. But for the party’s leadership, we have continued to take several steps to challenge the injustice politically and legally and we are certain victory is near. Till today, the government has not shown any readiness to prosecute the matter. How do you see the readiness of INEC for the 2023 general elections? POLL I am not sure of any preparation towards the 2023 elections. The commission needs to first clear itself of several actions and inactions suggesting partisanship and bias. The Buhari regime has continued to send to INEC leadership people whose biases are leaning towards the APC or are outright members of the party. Latest of them is Prof. Rhoda Gumus appointed as REC, South-South. The INEC must hands off alternatives, to show any preparedness for a credible election and not just elections for the sake of statistics. The apathy we have been recording since Professor Mahmud’s chairmanship of INEC is as a result of the people’s loss of trust in the electoral system and it’s getting worse by the day. How do you say you are then prepared for an election while people are not prepared to participate in? A serious commission should be worried. Nigerians are not fools. They are seriously yearning for alternatives to the thieving parties and they won’t participate in a shrinking space that attacks or disregards alternatives such as ours. Also is the issue of the law with which the elections would be conducted. The Electoral Act Amendment Bill is yet to be signed into law less than a year to the proposed date for the presidential elections. Will we be going into the elections with the 2010 Act that makes our electoral process unending, that makes sure ballots are manipulated or stolen, on the way to the collation centre? The time-table for the 2023 elections is also not out. I do not see any preparation and this is not unconnected to the fact that the Buhari regime is not ready to conduct any elections, albeit credible. What is your take on the number of presidential contenders that have so far emerged for the next election? To answer this simply is to say that the crop of politicians that have expressed their aspiration so far lack inspiration. They do not inspire the people one bit. And you can tell from how they are falling like a pack of cards after their declaration. From Tinubu who wants to be President because it has been his ‘’life-long ambition’’ (not about the people) to the one who has corruption cases hanging on his neck like a pendant, Kalu, or is it Captain Rochas whose declaration didn’t move past the ceiling of the hall, it’s just been an array of failed politicians. The righteous are earnestly waiting for the AAC and we would inform the people when due. What is the stand of your party on the issue of zoning the presidency? The issue of zoning rising from different quarters cannot be waved off actually owing to the fact that the country has become polarized along ethno-religious lines more than ever, no thanks to the divisive, corrupt and nepotistic posture of President Buhari. Politicians are bringing the zoning issue up for different schemings while they pretend that it is in the interest of their people. The people are never part of their calculations. For example, Ota has the one of the worst and dreaded roads in Nigeria, yet a two-term President in two dispensations came from that sub-region. Niger Deltans and in particular, Bayelsans can’t sleep, feed and breathe well because of serious environmental pollution in that region but a Jonathan came from there. You don’t even want to talk about the Northern region. It has the highest number of poorest people, yet has produced the highest number of Presidents and Heads of State in this country. So the progress we desire is not about geo-political zones. The ruling elite and the poor masses have already been zoned, where you come from does not matter, but we have taken a side with the poor masses. It is also important to state that it is not illegal for anyone from any part of the country to declare for the presidency. For us at the African Action Congress, we believe that the quality of what is being brought to the table is what matters and not where it is brought from, and I am sure we do not share this sentiment alone. Nigerians are good people. The average Igbo would be less concerned who the occupier of Aso Villa is, if he can do his business anywhere without being harassed. The Yoruba would not consider the mother tongue of the President if they can go to farm and be assured of their safety from armed killer herdsmen. The average Hausa/Fulani and other ethnic groups are concerned about economic progress, social justice and an economic system that inclusive and not for the few rich. We have campaigned across the country and we found out that that is what every zone actually need and that is what we are bringing to the table. Tinubu Has Resources To Win 2023 Presidency – Ogunlewe Igbo Group Condemns Okechukwu’s Attack On Bauchi Governor,… How do you see the fight against insecurity? Would you say that the government and the security agencies are winning the war? There is actually no fight going on, in its real sense. Security must be seen beyond throwing bombs, shooting guns and deploying tucanos. There can’t be security where there is extreme poverty as in our case in Nigeria. Boko Haram keeps recruiting daily from the army of unemployed and disadvantaged in our society while we are losing our soldiers to the war. There is also the case of food security, social, economic and even cyber security. How do the terrorists upload videos of their nefarious activities on the internet? Our intelligence agencies have not been able to figure that out, but they are busy tracking and chasing dissenters. It is so unfortunate that we are now at the stage where terrorists are now claiming sovereignty. It was in the news sometime that the bandits installed a Governor for the captured parts of Borno. They now issue tax receipts to Nigerians. They move so freely that they even engage in humanitarian works like NGOs. This regime of a retired General has shown the highest level of cluelessness on how to fight insecurity. A lot of work of intelligence needs to be done. The other day the government announced that it would install CCTVs on highways to curb kidnapping, the CCTV we didn’t see. What is your take on the Federal Government’s style of prosecuting its budgets with foreign loans? It is shameful that we now borrow not for sensible things but to feed; as in pay salaries. The recurrent expenditure in the budget gulps almost half, subsidies take another quarter and then debt servicing finishes everything left. We have become a parasite to the rest of the world, to the extent that they are now shutting their doors on us. It is a clear indication that we are not being ruled by people of great ideas but lazy people. The government needs to look internally and industrialise massively. Our industries must be revitalised as a matter of urgency. Away from oil, the greatest economic asset, yet untapped are the people. When you look at India today, the first thing that comes to mind is the exploits and the contribution they’ve been able to make globally, in areas such as Medicine and Information Technology. What can be said of Nigeria today in the aspect of our contribution to the world? The other day I asked this question at the forum, someone in the audience quipped albeit sarcastically comedy and skit-making. Sounds funny but it’s true and the players in the creative industry should be appreciated. But where is the presence of government there? Away from ‘power-point economics’ and the useless Tradermoni, the government has to make huge investments in the people. Our universities and training institutions must be given adequate attention and investment, so that bread, guest houses and table water would not be their only financial contribution to the economy. There is nothing stopping us from exporting the best locally trained doctors, scientists, surgeons to the rest of the world.