Manchester United are, when it comes to their next manager, looking closely at Mauricio Pochettino, Erik ten Hag and Luis Enrique. The trio all appear to be frontrunners when it comes to taking over from Ralf Rangnick at the end of the campaign. Yet they’re not the only people to have been linked with the job at Old Trafford. Manchester United are currently preparing for the start of yet another new era. They’ve gone through four permanent managers since Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013, with the likes of David Moyes, Louis van Gaal, Jose Mourinho and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer all struggling to live up to expectations. Man Utd On Alert With Ajax Manager Erik Ten Hag West Ham Placed £200m On Declan Rice To Ward Off Top-Four Rivals… At the current moment in time, Pochettino, Ten Hag and Enrique are all favourites to take over. But United have been linked with other bosses, too, as they aim to finally win the Premier League title next term. So Express Sport will now take a look at the four other names to have been linked with the post and why their appointments are, for now, so unlikely to happen. United have been credited with an interest in Italy boss Roberto Mancini. POLL The 57-year-old previously did well on these shores with Manchester City, winning the FA Cup and Premier League title over at the Etihad. Yet while United may very well admire Mancini, it’s hard to see this one happening. Given he was successful at City, it would definitely be a divisive move bringing in someone so massively-respected across town. Mancini is also happy managing Italy for the time being, having steered them to Euro 2020 glory back in the summer. Man Utd Submit ‘Offer’ For Monchengladbach Midfielder Man Utd 0-1 Wolves: Rough Times For Ralf United have been tipped to go after Graham Potter given the fine work he’s done at Brighton. The 46-year-old has steered the seasiders to ninth in the table on limited resources, implanting an entertaining attacking style in the process. But this job is seen as too big a leap at the current moment in time. United previously appointed Moyes after he’d done well at Everton but the Scot found the jump up to such a big club simply too sizeable. They want a proven winner and Potter, for all his fine work over the course of his career, isn’t one yet. Julen Lopetegui deserves immense credit for the work he’s done at Sevilla. He guided the Spanish side to Europa League glory in 2020, while his side are currently Real Madrid’s closest challengers in the race for the La Liga title. However, he’s previously toiled at a big club before. Real Madrid turned to Lopetegui after Zinedine Zidane’s departure in 2018 but, in the end, things didn’t work out. Therefore, United are wary of going after somebody who had previously struggled despite having world-class players at his disposal. Brendan Rodgers, like with Potter at Brighton, has made his mark at Leicester. He steered them to FA Cup glory last year, while he’s also guided them to the Community Shield during his time at the King Power Stadium. Yet Rodgers has overseen a turbulent campaign at Leicester this season, with Sunday’s FA Cup hammering at the hands of Nottingham Forest a new low. Throw in the fact he’s previously managed Liverpool, too, and he’s no longer an appealing candidate. Rodgers is likelier to be courted by Manchester City when Pep Guardiola eventually walks away.