The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has announced plans to amplify the voices of members of the fourth estate of the realm with its forthcoming media stakeholders’ forum. Dr. Segun Alabi, Head, Corporate Communications, LCCI, made this known in a statement in Lagos, said that media practitioners had painstakingly and otherwise reported happenings about persons, situations and countries, yet their voices were unheard. He noted that their voices were critical to the socio-economic well-being and security of the nation, as well as its advancement. How DBN’s Grants Of N439bn Credit Facility Will Boost 180… CDC/BII Partners FirstBank To Support Women, Small Business… This, according to him, informs the theme of the March 24, 2022 forum: “Economic Stability and Security as Tools for National Development: The Media Perspective.” Dr. Alabi said that expected at the forum are: Mr Olufemi Awoyemi, Chairman, Proshare, Mr Obi Asika, Co-Founder, Social Media Week, Lagos, Mr Boason Omofaye, Show Anchor, Arise news channel, Ms Mofe Oyatogun, On Air Personality, Star FM. Others, he said include: Mr Tolulope Ogunjobi, Business Editor, TVC, Dr Femi Adekoya, Business Editor, Guardian Newspaper, Sheriff Quadry, Programs Manager, Nigerian Info FM and Mallam Mukhtar Sirajo, President, Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR). “They have listened to others, reported their stories and amplified the voices of the masses, but as members of the fourth estate of the realm, their voices are unheard. “As a result, we have decided to use this forum to amplify their voices and engage them on the pathway to Nigeria’s economic prosperity. POLL “This initiative is part of the chamber’s media relations and public policy advocacy initiatives. “We believe that a successful advocacy must be research-based and supported by the media. “We count on the support role of the media in achieving this cardinal function of the Chamber in ensuring an enabling environment for businesses to thrive,” he added.