ABUJA – Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State has made a passionate appeal to the All Progressives Congress (APC) factions led by Shekarau to unite behind his leadership as one party and family in the interest of the state. The two APC leaders have been disputing the authentic congress of the party held in the state. Speaking when he led his faction to the party to the National Secretariat of APC on a thank you visit following the appeal court won by his faction, the governor urged the other group to return so that normalcy can return to the party. Osun APC: Can Aregbesola Give Oyetola The Ambode Treatment ? Delta DC-2023’s Debacle On Search For Okowa’s… According to him Kano is nearly hundred percent APC but which has been fractured by the disagreement. With the decision of the court of appeal, he said there is urgent need for reconciliation among stakeholders of the party. Speaking on his mission during which certificate of return was received by his group, the governor urged that peace should return to the party. “We Thank you very much for this very important question. First of all, we have to thank the Almighty God for this very very important occasion and moment. As you rightly said, today, we APC of Kano State have gotten a judgment in our favour, that all the congresses we conducted are in order. And now they are legally recognized by the court of law.” “We have to thank the party, the leadership of the party, for initiating a reconciliation move. So that APC Kano state will be united. We have to thank the party for that. And this reconciliation will continue. But in particular, we are happy that a judgment has been passed in our favour and the APC stakeholders from Kano are here in order to show our appreciation to the leadership of our party.” Ganduje who was accompanied by top party leaders in the state including Ado Doguwa, House Majority leader, Senator Kabiru Gaya and others said the party is ever strong under his leadership. “We have representatives of the National Assembly. We have the House leader who is here with us. We have the distinguished senator. We have many members of House of Representatives. We have representatives of elected chairmen of our 44 local governments.” POLL “We have representatives of our state assembly members. We have even representatives of 484 elected councillors of APC in Kano state. So, we thank you, you too members of the press for covering all the proceedings right from the court and also, even during the reconciliation meeting. We thank you for that. So that’s why we’re here”.