Road users across the country, especially in the coastal city of Lagos, have every reason to be apprehensive about the coming rainy season of the year. This is due to the horrendous experience many go through from the massive flooding within the period, leaving behind pools of water in potholes dotting everywhere you turn on the road. Ordinarily, the rainy season should be appreciated for the abundance of agricultural harvests that comes with it; it’s cooling effect on the atmosphere, and the rejuvenation of the ecosystem into lush greenery that could be seen permeating the entire landscape, projecting a soothing ambience. Importers Of Tricycles Ripping Nigerians Off With Cut Throat… Declining Fortune Of Indigenous Road Contractors In Award Of… It is , however, worrisome to note that flooding in the Lagos metropolis and around the country usually occurs during the rainy seasons, affecting a substantial percentage of the population and causing considerable loss of road portions to flood waters. Town Planner Lasisi Ajeigbe, Senior Partner with Adlab Estate Managers and Surveyors, said absence of drainage, poorly designed and badly maintained drainage systems have dire consequences on roads in the state, including compounding the already chaotic traffic situation, reducing the lifespan of cars, and fast-forwarding infrastructure decay. “From Lagos Island to the mainland, the absence of a good drainage system is evident in the many roads that have been washed away, and the craters left behind, as is the case in many other parts of the country. “A sustainable drainage network must be covered, with maximum vents to allow for effective draining of the excess water, and restrict debris from falling into and blocking the drain. Standard drainage systems manage the water quantity to avoid flooding, control water and pollution. He maintained that sustainable drainage must be of paramount concern when designing any projects like roads, buildings, estates, city layouts, airports, and others, as a means to protect the projects from flooding and its consequences. POLL Muyeez Oladejo, an engineer with China Civil Engineering Construction Company, CCECC, said: “Drainage is the central and most important aspect of design, construction and maintenance of any road, including unsealed roads. “Poor drainage will reduce the life of the pavement and have serious environmental impacts if left unchecked. During the rains, part of the rain water flows on the surface and part of it percolates through the soil mass as gravitational water until it reaches the ground water”. On his part, Busari Ibrahim, an engineer with Maikano, said: “Run-off is the quantity and volume of water flowing into the drain from the road pavement after a rainfall. The quantity of water to be drained will depend on a number of variables, i.e. the intensity, duration and frequency of the rainfall, together with the size and type of the drainage. “With a lot of Nigerian roads across the country having inadequate drainage systems, deterioration often begins with the origin of cracks or pot holes on the road pavements either at the edges or along the driveway which differs by their shapes, configuration, and amplitude.” Engineer Busari added. A staff of the Works Department of the Ifako Ijaiye, Local Government Area, said: “When erected structures and facilities such as drainages and road pavements are poorly maintained, which reduces their service lifespan is drastically, with our poor maintenance culture you find drainages, gullies and gratings being blocked with dirt, weeds, silts, sand with some having growth of vegetation inside and around the side drains resulting into total failure of the side drains. Road Transport Union Or Cesspool Of Thugs, Extortionists In… Role Of Special Marshalls Enshrined In Act Establishing FRSC –… “The worst effect of blocked drains or lack of it on Nigerian roads, especially in Lagos, reduces the lifespan and durability of constructed road networks and the deterioration of repairs carried out on bad spots of the roads within a short time”, he added. Apart from poor drainage as a major cause of flooding, there is also a man-made element to the floods. The Lagos State government has continued its program of ‘reclaiming’ land from the Atlantic. In addition private operators have continued the illegal activities of dredging and reclaiming land from the sea around the lekki-Ajah axis, including places like Ikorodu, Navy town, Epe, Okokomaiko and other coastal places of the state. Experts say beyond displacing thousands of liters of sea water, these projects have also reduced the options available for rain water that would ordinarily run into the Lagos Lagoon and eventually, the Atlantic. The government should carry out strict monitoring of dredging activities that could displace large volumes of water into the mainland via drainage outlets, enforce the control against dumping of refuse into drainage paths and ensure the de-silting of major drainages ahead of the full raining season that is about to commence. The seriousness of the Lagos state government in ensuring that the roads in the state does not remain flooded after each rain could be the reason for the statement made by Joe Igbokwe early this year that, “The state would embark on innovations to rid the state of flood in 2022.” The special adviser, who was represented by Olalekan Shodeinde, Permanent Secretary (Office of Drainage Services) said it became necessary to review the 2021 SCP and seek better ways to tackle challenges recorded. “The state is thus open to new partnerships and improved synergy with relevant organisations which will help to improve the knowledge base and bring forth new ideas in the technology to combat flooding.” ‘’We also ensured the flood was promptly curtailed by empowering resident engineers to attend to all flooding matters in the 57 LGAs/ LCDAs. ‘’A total of 72km and 289.08km of primary and secondary drainage channels were cleared and maintained during the year and more hydraulic structures were built to mitigate flooding.” Shodiende said. To show its commitment to having a clean and effective drainage system to suck the expected heavy rainfall expected in the year, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State Governor, approved the creation of Tertiary Drains Squad, TDS, in the 57 local governments and local council development areas in the state. According to Igbokwe, the squad will complement the Emergency Flood Abatement Gang already existing at the state level, to ensure that tertiary drains are properly discharge into primary and secondary drains. He added that there is no straight-jacketed approach to implementing the directives of Mr Governor, but each council must adopt the strategy that suits it. He reiterated that the step is one of the proactive measures put in place to have synergy between the State and Local Governments in terms of interdependence as it affects drainage channels. He declared that it’s high time that LG/LCDAs take ownership of tertiary drains to reduce the pressure of desilting and cleaning of the secondary and primary channels where the State Government has continued to engage human and financial resources. “I am confident that this second forum will afford us the opportunity to agree on best practices to resolve all the issues concerning the cleaning and maintenance of tertiary drains which are the drains that run across our tenements and how Local Councils should be at the forefront of monitoring and compelling residents to clean the tertiary drains across the state.” He said. The most proactive step however, was the purchase and commissioning of the Second batch of 19 high capacity drainage clearing and maintenance equipment last week Tuesday by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, giving verve to the quest to ensure that Lagos and its roads remains flood-free in the rain season. Speaking at the event which took place at the EFAG Yard in Oregun, Governor Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello said never again will Lagos be branded as a flood-ravaged city. He stressed that the State Government will always be a step ahead in terms of its preparations for the rainy season and the aftermath because of the nature of Lagos as a coastal city. He said his administration will consciously continue to position the Office of Drainage Services to perform its statutory roles adding the equipment will be evenly deployed to every part of Lagos. He explained that the complaints of non-removal of silts from drains in quick times have been addressed with the new tipping trucks amongst the equipment. The Commissioned drainage maintenance equipment comprised of two Loader Black Hoe Model, One Low Loader Trailer, One Track Loader, Four Wheel Pick up, Five Tipper Truck, Two Light Cargo Truck, One Low Bed Horse One Crane Truck as well as Two Floodlights all to be used in our fight against flooding in the State. In his remarks, the Special Adviser on Drainage and Water Resources, Engr Joe Igbokwe said the government is aware of its responsibility to evolve strategic methods that will improve the environment and guarantee that the State is flood-free and beautiful for residents. He added that this feat can only be achieved through sustainable cleaning of all drainage channels in the state. Also speaking at the Commissioning, the Permanent Secretary Office of Drainage Services, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde said the Ministry is confident that the injection of the new set of equipment will improve efficiency in providing all-year-round drainage maintenance for effective and efficient flood management in the State. The meeting according to Igbokwe, was consummated to sensitize Local Governments, its administrators as well as stakeholders to map out a new course on cleaning of tertiary drains and proffer solutions to foreseeable challenges.