ENUGU – As the debate on which senatorial zone to produce the next governor of Enugu state in 2023 continues, a political movement, Ndi Oganiru Enugu has condemned the call for zoning of the governorship seat. They described the call for zoning as the conspiracy of the elites, who are bent on hijacking and dominating the political space and denying the state an opportunity to elect a transformational leader. Featuring on Solid Fm’s political programme, Freedom Square, the President of Ndi Oganiru Enugu, Jude Asogwa, said there is nothing like zoning in the state, adding that the group cannot support what does not exist. Edo South 2023: YEPP Counters PDP Chieftain, Insists On Zoning 2023: Ebonyi PDP Legal Adviser Calls For Conference Over Zoning Asogwa challenged those championing zoning to prove where and when the zoning arrangement pact was signed as well as those who signed the pact. According to him, Ndi Enugu should demand a transformational leader, who can provide practical solutions to developmental challenges facing the state, instead of listening to political jobbers. On his part, the public relations officer of the group, Val Ikpa, accused those clamouring for zoning governorship seat to Enugu East Senatorial zone of not observing the same in their local government areas. He questioned why one family has hijacked all the political positions in Enugu East Local Government Area, yet wants the zoning arrangement to be respected at the state. Ikpa, a resident of Abakpa, lambasted that the current administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has not done enough to develop the area, despite having a large number of residents. POLL The Ezeagu Local Government coordinator of Ndi Oganiru Enugu, Cyriacus Umeha, on his submission, said the group is out to ensure that a transformational leader occupies the Enugu Lion Building in 2023. Umeha revealed that the group has identified the former deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, as one and is doing everything possible to ensure that he becomes the governor. According to him, Ekweremadu stands to tell higher than other aspirants jostling for the governorship, considering his antecedent in political space and intimidating profile. Also, the Udenu Coordinator of the group, Chinweuba Onah, hinted that the emergence of Ekweremadu as governor would assuage the anger of Enugu West, which has only produced one governor.