MIDiA Research, in collaboration with TuneCore/Believe have launched the second annual study, ‘Be The Change, Women Making Music 2022’. The study, according to information, will look at women and gender minority creators in the music industry, uncovering their challenges, experiences, inspirations, and ambitions for the future. This study follows the previous groundbreaking project ‘Be The Change, Women Making Music’ in 2021. Drawing from firsthand accounts about their experiences, as well as survey results, the report 2021 report delved into the challenging (and sometimes painful) journeys that many creators face, such as direct forms of discrimination, endemic issues of under-representation, and unconscious bias, in addition to exploring issues that affect creators’ confidence. According to the organisers, the aim of this year’s study is to dive deeper into these issues. Its scope will look to include the hardships faced by other gender identities, as well as the incremental changes caused by the pandemic. As Africans, We Don’t Know So Much About Ourselves — DJ Cuppy Toke Makinwa Advices Women On Male Bestie Relationships “Through the help of numerous industry partners, such as Women in Music, Keychange/PRS Foundation, Music Business Association, Twitch, CD Baby, Songtrust, Ableton, Splice, MI Therapy, and others, the aim of this survey is to reach more creators on a truly global scale. New this year is input from men regarding their perception of gender issues and how they can act as allies in the pursuit of equality, as well as gathering data from women executives in the music industry to better understand their challenges as well,” the statement reads. Mark Mulligan, managing director at MIDiA Research said that last year’s ‘be The Change’ report played a crucial role in putting numbers behind the industry dynamics that shape the experience of women in music. Also speaking, Andreea Gleeson, Chief Executive Officer, TuneCore noted that, “To create real change, each of us have to start with what we as individuals can control and be the change we want to see, hence the name of the study. When our daily behavior in our personal lives encompasses inclusivity, and we bring those practices into our professional lives, that’s when we see meaningful change happen in the music industry. This study serves as the foundation for that change, and we are thrilled to sponsor such a meaningful project.”