ABUJA – The Director Defence Media Operations, Major General, Bernard Oyeuoko has disclosed that Nigerian troops have neutralized 63 Terrorists in Borno in the last two weeks. This is s he also revealed that over 466 Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists and their families, comprising of 120 adult males, 137 Adult females and 209 Children have surrendered to own troops within the period. Gen Onyeuko stated this on Thursday during the bi-weekly briefing on operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria in Abuja. Day 2 State Visit: Buhari Commissions Keffi Neighborhood Market,… APC, PDP Failed, Lack Idea To Move Nation Forward – NNPP… According to him, “Troops of Operation Hadin Kai during the period under review conducted operations along Pulka-Kariwa, where Terrorists and their families, comprising of 120 Adult Males, 137 Adult Females and 209 Children surrendered with the claim to have lost interest in the BHT ideology. “The Air Component of operation HADIN KAI carried out air interdiction at Bukar mairam village in Marte Local Government Area, in the process Mohammed Yusuf the leader of Rijal Amn Special Forces was neutralized. Cumulatively, the troops within the last two weeks, he noted “neutralized 63 fighters, arrested 86 members of the terrorists, recovered four gun trucks, 25 AK47 rifles, 56 magazines with 6.2mm special ammunitions, 78 rounds of different calibers of ammunitions, 67 packets of rounds on links, three FN grenades and three bandoliers. “Additionally, 20 abducted civilians were rescued by own troops.” The surrendered terrorists Gen. Onyeuko said have been properly documented and handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary actions. POLL According to him, Troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI within the same period conducted several operations in Zamfara states where one Mallam Dogo Umaru and scores of his foot soldier were neutralized. “Troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI within the period under review conducted several operational at different locations. Some of the areas are Manya Village in Anka Local Government Area, Gidan Wanzamai Village, Babege Village in Maru Local Government Area, Mada, Tudun Wada, Butsa and South Rafi in Gusau Local Government Area, Kaura Namoda, Getawa, Ungwan Kade, Ahole and Totsari Villages in Zamfara State. “Others are Magamar Village, Feru in Jibia Local Government Area, Guga Village in Bakori Local Government Area, Yantumaki, Kaiga in Danmusa Local Government Area of Katsina State. “In a related development, the air component of Operation HADARIN DAJI conducted air strikes on Boko Haram enclaves at Magama Village, Tsaunin Babare Village and Tsamben Babare Village in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State where a notorious bandit leader, One Mallam Dogo Umaru and scores of his foot soldier were neutralized. “Cumulatively, these operations resulted in the recovery of 10 AK 47 rifles, 100 rounds of 6.2mm ammunitions, 20 motorcycles, 40 herds of rustled cows, 50 rams. National Convention: Will APC Stick To March 26 Date? Private: Group Tells APC To Give Bayelsa, Others NWC Positions “Troops also rescued 10 kidnapped civilians, arrested 10 bandits and neutralized 10 bandits. All arrested criminals and recovered items have been handed over to the appropriate authorities.” He also added that, troops of Operation Safe Haven sustained their Kinetic and non – Kinetic operations in different locations of the theatre which yielded notable results at Sabon Gari Village in Wase Local Government Area, Tahan Village in Bokkos Local Government Area of plateau state “As part of its Non – Kinetic measures troops of OP SAFE HAVEN held a peace submit in Bassa LGA for Irigwe Youths and Fulani Youths on 17 Feb 2022. The peace submit was a prelude to the implementation of a peace plan by a committee that worked out modalities towards achieving lasting peace in the area. “Accordingly, a total of 1 AK 47 rifle, 2 locally made guns, 4 rustled cows, 1Toyota Camry car and one Mikano generating set were recovered, while 3 Cattle rustlers and 2 Kidnappers were arrested. “Also, a total of 60 displaced person were rescued and taken to shelter. All recovered items and rescued persons have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further actions.” He said in the last two weeks troops of Operation DELTA SAFE conducted clearance operations in different locations in creeks, where over One million, One hundred and eighteen thousand, One hundred and Seventy-Five litres (1,118,175 litres) of illegal AGO and Two Million and Eight Six Thousand litres (2,086.000 litres) of crude oil stolen. “Consequently, troops within the period under review, recovered a total of One million, One hundred and eighteen thousand, One hundred and Seventy-Five litres (1,118,175 litres) of illegal AGO and Two Million and Eight Six Thousand litres (2,086.000 litres) of stolen crude oil. “Similarly, troops discovered 38 refining sites, 100 metal storage tanks, 25 dugout pits, 75 cooking ovens, 20 cotonou boats, 35 Yamaha pumping machines, 15 coolants as well as 10 tankers were recovered. “Also, 35 galvanized pipes illegally connected were destroyed. Furthermore, 13 economic saboteurs associated with pipeline vandalization were arrested. All recovered items and apprehended criminals have been handed over to the appropriate authorities for further actions. This was as he commended various theatre of operations for their zeal and commitment in containing the various securities challenges across the country.