ABUJA – The leadership of National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS, has lauded the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki for appointing Professor Asomwan Sonnie Adagbonyi as Acting Vice Chancellor of Ambrose Alli University Ekpoma. National Vice President of NANS, Comrade Odiahi Thomas Ikhine, in a statement on Tuesday, in Abuja said this would propel effective development of the University. Ikhine, however, called on Obaseki who is the Visitor to the University to improve on financial commitment of the State Government to the institution. COEASU Threatens Fresh Strike Over FG’s Delay to Pay N15bn… Nigeria Needs New Constitution To Progress – Abayomi Describing Adagbonyi’s appointment as well-deserved, Ikhine said Ambrose Alli University student community under the auspices of NANS the umbrella body of all Nigeria students would be prepared to support the new VC to succeed in his new assignment. He equally appreciated the visitor to the university, Godwin Obaseki for appointing alongside deputy Vice Chancellor’s to ease the work-load in the University managerial activities. The student body also used the medium to call on the visitor to the University, Gov. Godwin Obaseki to urgently consider increasing the State Government financial commitment to the institution which from all indication has become very pivotal and important to the smooth running of the University. Prof Asomwan Sonnie Adagbonyin is a Professor of English at the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State. He has been an academic staff at the university for more than 35 years and has brought to bear, over the years, on his teaching, unique skills that have endeared him to his many students scattered all over the world. POLL He is also a freelance journalist, broadcaster, speech writer, columnist, commentator on public affairs, playwright, short story writer and poet. He is a gifted public speaker and orator, and a recipient of several honours. He has been on the editorial advisory board of many academic and literary journals at home and abroad. He was Vice-Chairman of the Edo-Delta States Chapter of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA).