LAGOS  – One of the leading organiser for the Nigerian debt capital market (DCM), FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited (FMDQ), has continued to receive commendations from stakeholders in its quest to expand the debt market and especially, the commercial paper programme. FMDQ, since the beginning of the year has listed CP from notable companies through its Board Listings and Markets Committee. The latest are the approval of the registration of the Providus Bank Limited N100.00 billion Commercial Paper (CP) Programme on its platform as well as that of the Emerging Africa Money Market Fund. Union Bank Celebrates JAN As JA Worldwide Receives Nobel Peace… Industry Leaders Canvass Empowerment Of SMEs At Sparkle Webinar The registration of this CP Programme strategically positions Providus Bank Limited to raise short-term finance from the Nigerian DCM easily, through CP issues within its CP Programme and quote same on FMDQ Exchange for visibility of the issue and desired transparency for the investors. Providus Bank is a Nigerian financial services provider, licenced as a commercial bank to provide banking, investment and wealth management services to individuals and businesses. The registration of this CP programme, sponsored by Greenwich Merchant Bank Limited – a Registration Member (Quotations) of FMDQ Exchange, validates the Exchange’s conscious drive to support the capital market needs of corporates and governments and to further deepen the Nigerian financial markets, and ultimately, the nation’s economy. FMDQ Exchange will continue to work collaboratively with market stakeholders to align the debt capital markets with international standards, and will, through f product and service innovation and the championing of key market development initiatives, take commendable steps to ensure that growth and development opportunities abound for the markets under its purview. FMDQ also approved for listing on its platform, the one billion units of N1.00 each Emerging Africa Money Market Fund, the one billion units of N1.00 each Emerging Africa Bond Fund, the twenty thousand units of $100.00 each Emerging Africa Eurobond Fund, and the five hundred million units of N1.00 each Emerging Africa Balanced Diversity Fund of Emerging Africa Asset Management Limited (EAAML). POLL EAAML is a subsidiary of the Emerging Africa Group, which provides portfolio management services to individual and institutional investors globally. Ms. Ada Ijara, the Managing Director, EAAML, while speaking on the successful listing of the Funds, commented that “the Emerging Africa Group is pleased to announce the listing by Emerging Africa Asset Management Limited of its bouquet of four Mutual Funds on FMDQ Exchange’s platform to give the funds the desired visibility and transparency provided by the platform. “The four mutual funds, which are duly registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), provide corporate and individual investors with opportunities to invest in a wide range of underlying assets such as quoted equity stocks, bonds, eurobonds, treasury bills and other fixed income instruments.”