BAUCHI – Over three years now after been devastated by the activities of the dreaded Boko Haram insurgents, the National Union of Borno State Students (NUBOSS) has bounced back to life. The Interim Caretaker Chairman of the Union, Abdullahi Alhaji Maidoki who made this known in a press release in Bauchi on Friday said that the union is now back to live and ready to move on. He said that the restoration of the union became necessary following the resolve of all the relevant authorities and individuals that came together and constituted the caretaker committee/electoral committee to conduct a free, peaceful and fair election within a very short period of time. PTI Matriculates 1,267 Students In Delta State Bauchi Students Commend Governor Mohammed For Payment Of 5033… The Interim Chairman appreciated the efforts of the State Commissioner of Higher Education, Science, Technology and Innovation, Engineer Mustapha Mallumbe for his zeal and eargerness to see the success of meeting the demands of students’ welfare and peace among the students. He also thanked the State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum for making the decision of appointing Mallam Bala Isa as the Executive Secretary of Borno state scholarship Borad. The Interim Caretaker Chairman commended Governor Zulum for doing wonderfully well than expected by improving the education sector in terms of both insfrastructure and human capacity building. “Yes , many Governors had done their best in education but they didn’t build good structures and edifices with full interior decorations including air conditioners and projectors as classrooms for primary school pupils of IDPs and less Privileged children”, Maidoki said. He equally commended the Governor for establishing the State Education Trust Fund that has executed more than hundred projects within a short period of time after establishment which has also served as response and counter solutions to the destruction made by insurgents for more than ten years. POLL The Interim caretaker chairman also appreciated the Borno Governor for doubling the scholarship allowances for both foreign and local students just as he has been providing breakfast food for primary school pupils. “This is just to mention but a few, the list is endless. May God bless and help him in all his endeavors. I wish to inform the Governor and general public that , the acting executive secretary have proven to the world that he is a man of integrity”, the students union said.