The recently approved Fifth General Network (5G) deployment by the Federal Government is not a threat to air safety, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has said. Speaking with aviation correspondents in Lagos, recently, Nuhu said that the regulatory agency was monitoring its development in the country, but dismissed the notion that it was a threat to aircraft. He also debunked the claim that the network was banned in the United States, but explained that it was only restricted in some areas in the North American country. Dana Air Launches Discounted Fares With ‘Vibe For Love Promo NCAA Grants Premium Airline, Xejet AOC Nuhu, however, declared that the regulatory agency would not hesitate to step in once it was discovered that the 5G network was a threat to air safety in the country. He said: “It is not completely true that the 5G network has been suspended in the United States, rather it was just in some of the places close to a few of the airports within some radius that 5G was suspended in order to fully understand what is happening. The concern raised is about interference with aircraft that are being controlled to land. “There is a critical component called radio altimeter; the spectrum by which this equipment operates is close to that of the 5G. So, they are afraid of interference from the radio altimeter and giving aircraft erroneous indication and it’s during aircraft approach landing when they are about 2,500ft or so above the ground. Usually, it is for flights that are put to land. “For us in Nigeria, we don’t have auto landing authorization. So, for now, it is of no concern to us, but we are still monitoring the situation, see the development if there are issues that might affect us, then we will take the necessary action.” POLL The roll out of the 5G network has been generating reactions from global experts on the effects it may have on safety of aircraft. It is the opinion of safety experts that the 5G interference with the aircraft’s radio altimeter could prevent engine and braking systems from transitioning to landing mode, which could prevent an aircraft from stopping on the runway. Besides, Nuhu said that the regulatory agency would not hesitate to restore the 21 frequencies to Emirates Airlines, following the decision of the United Arab Emirates Civil Aviation Authority to grant Air Peace the slots it requested for. He was reacting to the letter submitted to his office, which indicated a form of release by Dubai Airport, lifting the ban on Nigeria and 11 other African countries. According to the Director-General, NCAA, all air transport dealings with the United Arab Emirates were guided by the principles itemised in the Bilateral Air Services Agreement, (BASA), which both countries mutually agreed to comply with.