P/HARCOURT – Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike has said the outcome of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries will astound Nigerians. He said whoever that emerges of all the aspirants should rest assured that the entire party will rally around and make sure that he wins the 2023 presidential election. Governor Wike, while speaking in Port Harcourt on Sunday, said the comment by former Vice President and PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar that he will always clinch the party ticket could amount to taking convention delegates for granted. NEPC Boss Urges Nigerians To Embrace Export Of Products Wike Applauds Diri, Mocks APC Governors Over Excuses On… “I didn’t expect him frankly speaking to say that he will always take the ticket of the party. That is going too far and taking the delegates for granted.” Governor Wike said he is committed to doing anything that will ensure PDP returns to power in 2023 and begins once again the process of rebuilding the nation after years of All Progressives Congress (APC) poor governance. The Rivers State governor, who urged PDP members to resist making divisive utterances, declared that the outcome of the party’s presidential election will shock many. “People should watch, there will be a shock as far as PDP convention is concerned. People should watch what is going to happen. People like to underrate so many persons and it is not good in politics.” Speaking on the timetable just released by the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) timetable over the weekend, Governor Wike expressed confidence that the National Executive Committee (NWC) of the PDP will ensure the party abides by the timetable. POLL “We are a law-abiding party. The party will soon meet, the NEC will meet and find the way forward on how we will put our house in order  and make sure we religiously follow the timetable of INEC without violating any provision of the law and guidelines that INEC may have produced.” Governor Wike commended PDP leadership in Plateau, Cross River and Ondo State for the sterling performance of the party in Saturday’s by-election. He attributed the victory of the PDP in the Jos North/Bassa federal constituency in Plateau State to the recent decision of the former Plateau State governor, Jonah Jang and former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FTC), Senator Jeremiah Useni to set aside their differences and work for the interest of the party. Governor Wike also lauded the PDP for winning the Akpabuyo State Constituency bye-election in Cross River State, irrespective of the violence unleashed by the APC government in the State. He further commended the former governor of Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Mimiko and other leaders of the party for the impressive performance of the party in Saturday’s by-election. According to him, the prospects of the party in the 2023 general election remains bright. 2023: Wike Lauds Makarfi For Saving PDP From Destruction PDP Can Only Support Presidential Candidate That Will Unite… Governor Wike has meanwhile disclosed that his administration will soon award a contract for the construction of two more flyovers in Port Harcourt. The Rivers State governor explained that as part of his legacy to provide the infrastructure that will improve the quality of life of the people and the economy of the state, he will soon award a contract for the construction flyovers at Rumuokwuta junction and Location junction along NTA-M gbuoba by Ada George road. The two additional flyovers will be the twelfth to be awarded by Governor Wike’s administration since 2019. Already, six have been completed and are currently, in use, the rest are at advanced stages of completion.