…Blast Anti-Emefiele Groups Over Blackmail ABUJA – Civil Society Organisations(CSOs), have risen to defend Godwin Emefiele, Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) over the allegation that he allocated about N500 billion for his presidential campaign. This was contained in a statement on Thursday in Abuja signed by Executive Director and South-South Coordinator, African Leadership Strategy and Transparency Development Initiative, Nelson Ossaieze; South West Coordinator and Coordinator, Centre for Joint Action Against Underdevelopment and Poverty in Africa, Olumide Kingsley Egbeola; Focal Person and South-East Coordinator, Advocacy for Good Governance; North West Coordinator, Network for Advancement of Democracy in Africa; North East Coordinator, Arewa Peace, Development and Democratic Front, Mallam Mohammed Ali; North Central Coordinator, Zero Tolerance and Anti-Corruption Network, Hajia Binta Ibrahim; Secretary General, Coalition of Civil Society Groups, Abubakar Ibrahim; and President, Coalition of Civil Society Groups, Bassey Etuk Williams. Digital Currency: Buhari Unveils CBN’s ENaira Emefiele Seeks More Investment In Infrastructure To Boost… The CSOs also berated anti-Emefiele groups for calling for his resignation as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. It would be recalled that an online medium had published a story alleging that the CBN Governor had brought in three airplanes as well as allocated about N500 billion for his campaign. The groups in a statement described the news published on an online medium alleging that Emefiele had set aside N500 billion for his presidential campaign as fake news sponsored to tarnish the image of the CBN boss. The statement read, “The CBN Governor has rendered selfless service to galvanise the economy via various intervention programmes to sustain the economy amidst devastating challenges to boost the productive base of the economy and position it to create wealth that would, in turn, diversify the income base of government and provide stable levels of income.” They also pointed out that any sincere analyst of Nigerian affairs, “without bias induced amnesia, would recall that things got so bad that states couldn’t even fulfil their most basic of responsibility to pay salaries not to talk of building much-needed infrastructure for their people. POLL “Within this chaos, Mr Emefiele brought order and has implemented the unprecedented number of interventions that have created a new class of engaged citizenry and strengthened key sectors of the economy such as agriculture. “The launch of the historical rice pyramid amidst several contradictions still no doubt is a shock to the nay-sayers. “Could it be that his only crime against those behind this new wave of vitriol against him is that his programmes have turned out to be a resounding success?” The statement reads in part, “The attention of Coalition of Civil Civil Society Groups has been drawn to another round of campaign of calumny against the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) by the controversial online Blog Sahara Reporters story entitled “2023: Central Bank Governor, Emefiele Brings In Three Airplanes For Presidential Campaign, Asked To Resign By Buhari Government Cabal”, alleging that Mr Godwin Emefiele has allocated about N500 billion for his presidential ambition, leveraging his edge as the manager of the country’s most critical financial institution. “It is important to know that these baseless allegations were not new, as it has become the priority, of Sahara Reporters and its co-travellers, to engage in the smear campaign against Mr Godwin Emefiele, but as usual to their disappointment, it will not fly, because it is not true. Hunt Down AbokiFX Before He Ruins FG’s Effort To Stabilize… Emefiele Dares Aboki FX, Declares Founder Wanted “Therefore, this latest round of smear campaign is one of the series of campaigns of calumny by these disgruntled characters, to malign the CBN Governor and the bank as an institution. “Yet, typical of blackmailers and mischief makers despite failures, they have refused to give up. The online news medium’s latest report against Mr Emefiele is obviously fake and non-existent. “It is only in their imaginations and sponsors, that one individual would have purchased three aircraft for a political campaign and kept a whooping N500 billion for same purpose. “If it wasn’t for the timing, this puerile concoction masquerading as a news report would have passed for mere comic relief, but knowing the dangers of fake news to social cohesion, there is the need to set the records straight as a responsible arbiter between government and the governed. “The platform that published this assemblage of downright falsehood, which could only have been the product of a fertile imagination, has a well-documented history of making such publications capable of demeaning the Federal Republic of Nigeria and its institutions. “But as a patriotic group, we cannot be bystanders at such a critical moment in our nation’s history, as it is our goal to ensure that public institutions are not drawn into the muddy waters of partisan politics. “It is a fact that these ones couldn’t find their voices or even their pens when the nation was flush with cash and this excess was not invested in the productive base of the economy. That only now they are beginning to rack their imagination to come up with fictitious figures from institutions not under the management of the CBN, as sponsors of a so-called presidential campaign show clearly the source, even though their cowardice wouldn’t let them come out openly.” The statement also warned that “The coalition will no longer tolerate any attempt to put the unity of Nigeria at risk, through the potent instrumentality of fake news and malicious reports. “We will henceforth not hesitate to mention names behind these falsehoods being spread in the public space for personal gain. “It is an indisputable fact that the 2023 elections have not even commenced and we urge politicians to take the back seat and allow the government of the day to finish their term in office and wait until the ban on campaigns are lifted before speculating on who is contesting for what and making statements capable of heating up the polity further. “Godwin Emefiele has not wronged the long-suffering people of Nigeria by his policies that have created jobs and strengthened the productive base of the economy. “It is really worrisome that some people could condescend so low to fabricate baseless allegation against the CBN Governor, for reasons that could best be described as mischievous. “It is equally worrisome that Sahara Reporters could lend space for this obvious mischief. We really do not believe that it is because the price is right. The coalition in the statement also urged Nigerians to disregard the campaign of calumny against the CBN Governor as all allegations were baseless and unfounded. “For the unscrupulous elements and their cohorts, these campaigns would prod the CBN governor and the management of the Bank, to continue to serve the nation diligently and with utmost zeal and those whose immoral and illegitimate livelihoods have been affected by these people-oriented policies would do well to support the Nigerian economy and help create jobs for our teeming youth to keep them out of the reach of criminal elements,” the statement added.