Challenges are part of life. It is not possible for someone to go through life without facing challenges at one point or the other. A life devoid of challenges is a dead one; a mean­ingless life. If you want to succeed in life in whatever endevour, chal­lenges will arise. Such challenges become wor­risome when people who are out to frustrate you orchestrate them. It is these sorts of challenges that typify the Nigerian setting, with such challenges manifesting in various ways and forms. The complex nature of the Nigerian society, however, complicates de­cision(s) that must be taken. However, no matter how com­plex society is, the most important thing is how you react to such chal­lenges, in other words, how you confront them. Do you confront them head-on or you sidetrack them believing that they will re­solve themselves along the line. Such attitude to life’s challenges will end in failure. But when you take-on the challenges of life, suc­cess will be yours even if you fail, a lesson will be learnt. It is better to adopt Nadia Comaneci philos­ophy, which states, “I don’t run away from a challenge because I am afraid. Instead, I run towards it because the only way to escape fear is to trample it beneath your foot,” or as the Chinese proverb states, “The gem cannot be pol­ished without friction, nor man perfected without trials.” Mohammed Sallah Is A Pharaoh The Nigeria Police And The Dog’s Nose Since how you face challenge(s) says a great deal about you, there­fore, sorting out a challenge early, adopting the proverb “A stitch in time saves nine,’ would be perfect philosophy of live. According to Randy Pausch, “The brick walls (challenges) are there for a reason. The brick walls are not there to keep us out. The brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly we want something. Because the brick walls are there to stop the people, who don’t want it badly enough. They’re there to stop the other people.” This proverb means that if you sort out a problem immediately it may save a lot of extra work lat­er. Another explanation is that it is better to fix a problem when it is small than to wait and let it be­come bigger. The phrase basically means it’s better to solve a problem right away, to stop it becoming a much bigger. The idea is that sewing up a small rip with one stitch means the tear is less likely to get bigger, and need more – or, well, nine – stitches later on. POLL Last Saturday, I warned Amaju Pinnick, president of the Nigeria Football Federation, of the ‘Ide’s of March.’ In that piece, I pointed out that since Super Eagles have crashed out of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, there was the need for the team to start preparation for the 2022 World Cup qualifier against Ghana Black Stars next month. This prepara­tion, I pointed out, must kickoff with naming a substantive coach for the Super Eagles and not dilly dally again as the federation foot dragged itself over Gernot Rohr, sacking him just weeks to the kick­off of the 2021 AFCON. That failure to do away with Rohr early is responsible for the challenges the team is going through now. If Rohr has been sacked earlier, a new coach who would have built a team that would meet the aspiration of Nigerians would have been hired. But here we are at the cross­roads, dilly-dallying on who would manage the team against Ghana. Despite unconfirmed news that Austin Eguavoen will be given the mandate to coach the team with Emmanuel Amuneke assisting him, the football house has kept silent and I can say unequivocally that that this silence is not golden. NFF must make public who will manage the Super Eagles. There are so many businessmen whose success depends on Super Eagles. Their business to a great extent is driven by the Super Ea­gles. NFF cannot because of the political consideration of balanc­ing appointments jeopardise the fortunes of millions of Nigerians. There is nothing wrong with Egeavoen and Amuneke, provid­ed they were contacted and they agree to work together. The task of qualifying for the World Cup in Qatar is enormous. The football house must not take it lightly. Let’s know who will manage the team, the earlier the better Gen Abdulsalami’s Truth About Abiola’s Death Nigeria’s Phenomenal Corruption Advancements Mane, Saleh To Be Enemies For 90 Minutes Senegal captain, Sadio Mane, and his Egyptian counterpart, Mo Salah, have been the face of African football for some time now. They both play for Liverpool Football Club. They’ve both won laurels with Liverpool, such as the English Premier League and the UEFA Champions League and several others. But there comes a time in the life of a man that your best friend could be your best enemy, albeit temporarily in this case. For 90 minutes on Sunday in Cameroon, these two African footballers will strive to out do each other in the final of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. Who will lift the trophy at the end of the day? Honestly, I want Mane to win the title for Sen­egal not because I hate Salah or am against Egypt, no. I prefer Mane to lift the trophy just because of his humanitarian gestures to his community. In 2020, it was reported by the Guardian of London that Mane is solely funding the construction of a hospital in Bambali, among many other projects ”to give peo­ple hope”. “You can see how the people really need it. Education is particularly important so I think I should do my best to help that,” Mane said.