The Zamfara State House of Assembly has impeached the state Deputy Governor, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau. This is as Governor Bello Matawalle has picked Senator Hassan Muhammad Nasiha Gusau as the new deputy governor of the state. At plenary on Wednesday, 20 out of 24 members voted for the impeachment of the deputy governor after the report submitted by the judicial panel of investigation found him guilty of the allegations leveled against him. BREAKING: Sacked ASUU-LASU Leaders Reinstated UCL: Substitute Yaremchuk Scores Equaliser As Benfica-Ajax… The report was read by the speaker of the Assembly, Nasiru Muazu Magarya. Earlier on Wednesday, the seven-man panel set up to investigate alleged gross misconduct and abuse of office leveled against Gusau had ended its sitting and submitted its report. The panel had Justice Halidu Tanko-Soba as Chairman, with Oladipo Okpeseyi (SAN) as Deputy Chairman and Abdul-Atadoga Ibrahim (SAN), Hussaini Zakariyau (SAN), Amina Tanimu-Marafa, Alhaji Sani Mande and Ahmad Buhari- Rabah as members. Presenting the copies of the report to the speaker, Okpeseyi said they were not empowered to talk about the report with any one. “We have done our duty with utmost integrity and diligence and we have compiled this report based on the evidence we have gathered in the course of our duty,” he said. Responding, the speaker of the Assembly said they would work on the report with the context of section 188 of the constitution. He then thanked the panel for discharging their duties in accordance with the law. Meanwhile, Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle has picked Senator Hassan Muhammad Nasiha Gusau as the new deputy governor of the state. POLL The governor sent a letter to the state Assembly, seeking the screening of the deputy governor. Speaker of the House, Nasiru Muazu Magarya, read the governor’s letter at plenary on Wednesday. When he appeared before the Assembly, the nominee was asked to “bow and leave” in line with the tradition of legislative houses. The lawmakers resolved to confirm the deputy governor based on his “track record as a politician, seasoned administrator and his wealth of knowledge and experience in public life”.