LAGOS – Lagos State House of Assembly has passed into law a bill for a law to establish the Institute of Legislative Studies and Research and for other connected purposes. The Bill, which was passed at the plenary on Thursday, is in consideration of the state’s version of the Institute of Legislative Studies as being established at the national level. The passage of the Bill followed the third reading by the Acting Clerk of the House, Mr Olalekan Onafeko, which was presided over by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni. Russia/Ukraine Faceoff: UK Government Announces Visa Concessions… Bankers’ Assets Declaration: Reps Fume As MDAs, Shun… With the passage, the proposed Institute of Legislative Studies will be the first in Nigeria to be backed by law. The bill is to establish the institute that would provide capacity so that the Assembly would be able to discharge its duties of lawmaking and oversight. The Bill sponsored by Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, states that the proposed institute is to be charged with the responsibility of conducting quality academic and professional research, training and advocacy on democratic governance, legislative practices, procedures and for connected purposes. According to the bill, the institute would act as a centre of excellence for research and publication on democratic governance as well as be a centre for continuing education on democracy and legislation. Among other functions, the institute is to “conduct courses for all categories of legislative officers and the support staff with a view to expanding their overall knowledge and performance in different sections of service; POLL “Provide continuing education for all categories of legislative officers by undertaking, organising, conducting and facilitating studies, courses, lectures, seminars, workshops, conference and other programmes related to Legislative education; “Promote and disseminate among legislative Assemblies and Local Governments in the State the practice of science-based methodologies of lawmaking.” In another development, the House also at plenary, screened two nominees of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the position of Permanent Secretary/State Auditor-General, and Permanent Secretary/Auditor-General Unified Local Government Services. The screened nominees are Mr Sikiru Salami and Mr Ogunlana Musa respectively.