LAGOS  – The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has disclosed that its N50 billion modular floating dockyard acquired in 2018 will become operational before the end of the first quarter of 2022, through a Public Private Partnership (PPP). Dr. Bashir Jamoh, Director General of NIMASA, disclosed this during a media parley in Lagos on the agency’s 2021 scorecard and projections for 2022. He assured stakeholders of the agency’s commitment towards putting the floating dock to use. We’re Guided By Rule Of Law – Ojo ANLCA Laments 30,000 Job Losses To Border Closure,… He said: “We expect before the end of the first quarter the floating dock to be operational. However, we don’t want to operate it by government or NIMASA alone, but by Public Private Partnership. As usual, the issue of privatisation of any government property is not a product but a process. “The Director General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), was here to give us the first certificate, telling us that privatising the modular floating dock is profitable and doable, and they gave us the go ahead to do that. “We have gone ahead to do negotiations with the Managing Partner, the Nigerian Ports Authority with the provision of Continental Shipyard. We expect that by the middle of February, we would get the final no-objection certificate. The NIMASA boss further explained that the privatisation of the floating dock must be approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), because it is a national asset and that the move was necessary because the federal government cannot bear the cost implications alone. “When it is privatised, the managing partners can decide and move it to the proper position it should be. POLL “Operationality of the floating dock would be taken over by foreigners to service it before the approval of the FEC. By the time we receive approval and the floating dock is in use, we will move it to where it belongs,” he added. While giving a breakdown of some of the agency’s achievements in 2021, Jamoh revealed that it made a payment of N37.69 billion to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) in 2021, a figure higher than the N31.83 billion it contributed in 2020. “In 2020, the agency contributed to the consolidated revenue account by paying N31,839,917,978.20. Despite the pandemic, we also went ahead to increase the amount we paid in 2021 with a total amount of N37,691,630, 450.22.” On the flag state control, which deals with survey and inspection of vessels in accordance with the safety requirements of the Merchant Shipping Act 2007, the Director General stated that a total of 489 vessels were surveyed in 2021, indicating a 43.6 per cent increase from that of 2020 which was 276 vessels. According to him, it was an indication of the maritime administration’s seriousness in terms of flag state survey, noting that for the port state control functions of NIMASA, a total of 429 foreign vessels were boarded to ensure that each vessel maintained safety, pollution standards while at Nigeria’s ports and waters. APM Terminals Apapa Transforming Into World-Class Facility –… ANLCA Decries FG’s High Revenue Target For Customs, Says It’ll… Jamoh also disclosed that the Agency reactivated the online portal for stakeholders to verify Nigerian Certificate(s) of Competency CoC from any part of the world. “The online certificate verification platform was reactivated last year to reduce falsification of Nigerian Seafarers Certificate and enhance the employment of Nigerian Seafarers. “We experienced rejection of Nigerian Seafarers both locally and internationally and the Agency decided to introduce the online certificate verification platform which allows ship owners to easily authenticate CoC’s from the comfort of their electronic devices.” While raising concern over the percentage of failures recorded for Nigerian seafarers who sat for the Certificate of Competency examination last year, Dr Jamoh announced that the Agency had commenced investigation into the immediate and remote causes of the trend with a view to addressing it holistically. In year 2021, NIMASA signed a Memorandum of Understanding, MoU with the Maritime Transport Coordination Center (MTCC), for capacity development to address the need for reduction of Green House Gas emission in the maritime industry with emphasis on achieving 0.5% Sulphur Oxide in Bunker fuel. “Our laboratory is already completed and we hope to enter a public private partnership arrangement this year to manage the laboratory for optimal utilisation. The Agency also carried out 20 marine accident investigations in 2021, as against 18 in the year 2020, while also enforcing safety regulations on barges and tugboats under the code name; Operation Sting Ray. The NIMASA helmsman revealed further that the Agency took delivery of more Deep Blue Project Assets, which was flagged-off by President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that some of these assets have been deployed to the Nigerian Navy for its operational use.