Pray Yoruba Ancestors Will Support Him IBADAN – The Alaafin of Oyo, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III has thrown his support towards the Presidential ambition of the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. As Asiwaju Tinubu on Sunday afternoon visited the palace of Alaafin of Oyo in the historical city to intimate the first-class imperial majesty about his ambition. Presidency 2023: North Central Youths Endorse Yahaya Bello NIPOST Seeks Customs Support For Improved Operations The consultation visit to the Palace of the Alaafin of Oyo is one of the many to traditional rulers in the Southwest. The former Lagos state governor while speaking at the palace intimated the foremost monarch his desire regarding the 2023 presidential election and seek for blessings and endorsement. While appreciating the sheers from the youths who storm the palace to declare their support for Jagaban of Borgu, Asiwaju Tinubu prayed for them that they would also become elders as well as President but after he has become the President of Nigeria. Addressing the Alaafin, Tinubu said “I came to seek for your royal blessings, prayers and support to become the president of Nigeria. “I am happy to see you. You have done your 51st anniversary on the throne and you are still looking fine. We thank you as you are leading us and caring for us. POLL “I thank all of you, leaders from other parts of the state. I thank you, the Oyomesi and other traditional leaders. May you never betray our father. I also thank you, Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu. “Kabiyesi you always telling the truth and you have always been my adviser. This is why I can’t take a step to become president without seeking your support. “We are still using the wisdom you taught us. We are still applying the same wisdom you gave us and that is what brought us to where we are today. “We can’t void it. We came together to form a government and that is what we are still doing today. We have not regretted this government. “All I came for today is to seek for your blessing, cooperation and prayers for me to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. Alaafin, Tinubu Others Applaud Translation Of Nigerian’s… 2023: Gbajabiamila Rallies Constituents’ Support For Gagdi The traditional ruler prayed for the realisation of Tinubu’s ambition, expressing confidence that the Yoruba ancestors would make him become the nation’s president in 2023. Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi said he is confident that the Yoruba ancestors would grant his desires. According to Alaafin, “If I check my list now, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the first presidential aspirant to visit me. “All you the chiefs and traditional rulers, you have heard what our visitor said. “He said our prayers are needed. All the ancestors in Yorubaland, get up and assist your son. “We have given you our real prayers because you came first and my ancestors have heard this today. The desire of your heart come 2023 will be realized” After the visit to Alaafin Palace, Aaiwaju Tinubu flew to Ibadan to pay homage to the Olubadan-designate, Senator Lekan Balogun. In his remarks, Balogun lamented the unsavoury state of the nation’s unity, just as he called for a leader that would pull back the country from the brink, come 2023. Balogun, who spoke through his brother and Senator representing Oyo South Senatorial District, Dr. Kola Balogun, at his Alarere residence, noted that the country is badly divided. “Kabiyesi has known you for a long time as a progressive politician as well as your antecedents as the governor that laid the foundation of the present Lagos. “Yorubas are the leading light of Nigeria, our people contributed a lot to make Nigeria what it is and without the Yorubas, Nigeria cannot be where it is today. But, it is very sad to note that ‘to your tent, oh Isreal’ has recently become the song of the people. “Nigeria is badly divided today and we are looking forward to a Yoruba president that will unite the country, come 2023. We need a leader that has a national focus and acceptability, the road may be rough, but, by God’s grace, you will triumph,” Balogun said. Tinubu, who was accompanied by the top members of his campaign group, said he was ready to fight in his quest to become the President, adding that he visited the Olubadan-designate and by extension Ibadan people to solicit for their support. The former Lagos State Governor said he was honoured to be in Ibadan, noting that the visit was to appeal to the monarch and Ibadan people to pray for him in his quest to become the country’s president. He described this period as a historical moment and a reminder of history, recalling that each time a Yoruba wants to be President, issues are raised, questions are asked and all sorts of gang-up are encountered. “I came here to request for your prayer for me and the Yoruba race. We are at a crossroads, people are volunteering to confront me when they were asked who would confront the lion of Bourdilon,” Tinubu stated. Expressing his readiness and determination, the APC presidential hopeful said, “I’m out to become President of Nigeria. No intimidation, no blackmail can stop me. I have read about a Greek philosopher that if you want to fight a pig, you must be ready to be smeared and I’m ready to be dirty.” Tinubu congratulated the new Olubadan for the grace to ascend the throne, which he said would give the ancient city a new outlook considering the robust background of Balogun as an educationist, politician of progressive-leaning and a humanist. He prayed for long life and sound health for the Olubadan-designate. The leader of the campaign group, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, in his opening remark traced the historical link between Ibadan and Lagos, saying that if a Lagosian is seeking the support of Ibadan people as they had come to do, it was not out of place. “We both own Ibadan, we have been working together before. We bring Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to you and Ibadan. It would be a great thing for Ibadan and the Yoruba race if we can produce the country’s president in 2023,” he added. In attendance to support Balogun and Olori Olufunmilayo to receive Tinubu and his entourage were Otun Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola; Ekarun Olubadan, High Chief Hamidu Ajibade; former Minister of Industries, Chief (Mrs.) Onikepo Akande and former first lady of Oyo State, Chief Mutiat Ladoja, among others.