ABUJA – A civil society organisation, under the auspices of the Centre for Transparency Advocacy CTA has described the forthcoming area council elections in the Federal Capital Territory, as one that would test the credibility and level of improvement of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The election is slated for February 12, 2022, across the six area councils in the FCT. So far, a total of 14 political parties are presenting candidates for the positions as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission. 55 candidates are contesting for the position of Chairman while 363 candidates are jostling to fill the position for Councilors across the 68 constituencies in the FCT. According to INEC, there are 1,373,492 registered voters in the FCT while the number of polling units in the FCT stands at 2,822 including the newly created 2,260. There are also indications that there will be no deployment of materials and personnel to 593 out of the newly created polling units because there are no voters yet registered in those units. All this information came to the fore on Wednesday, when Executive Director, CTA, Faith Nwadishi hosted an interactive session involving critical stakeholders in the FCT election. According to Nwadishi, the stakeholders’ engagement is meant to gauge the pulse and preparations of the citizens and the Election Management Body towards the election. POLL She said it is important to note that the FCT Area Council Election is no less critical to the nation as other elections in the states. This election is important because FCT is the only STATE that its citizens are “stateless”, therefore, this election should be taken seriously by all stakeholders in the process. Her words, “The agitations by the Original Inhabitants of the FCT towards being treated as people with an equal stake in the National political terrain cannot be degraded hence, transparency should be the hallmark of every group, agency, individuals, the media, security agencies, civil society and citizens that will be involved in the conduct of this election on February 12, 2022. “It is our belief that all of us represent here today including INEC will serve the interest of the people while building on the recent successes in the last Anambra State Governorship Election. The deployment of improved technology such as the Bi-modal Voter Accreditation System (B-VAS) that replaced the Smart Card Reader will help to achieve transparency in the electoral process. “It is also important to remind us as stakeholders that inclusion will help to ensure that all voices are heard, especially those of the vulnerable groups such as women, youth, and people with disability in the electoral process to engender better democratic practices which in turn will help the nation in achieving a sustainable, credible pathway to elections and the electoral process. “Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) will be deploying 150 observers including our expert team members to the 6 Areas Councils with at least 15 observers per Area Council. These observers will be trained on Election Observation, code of conduct of observers, adherence to INEC Election Guidelines and the Covid-19 Protocols on Thursday, February 10. CTA will also be setting up a Situation Room here in Abuja on election day to receive reports from the field observers”.