YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Government has said that it has nothing to conceal concerning the financial transactions of the state. The Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, stated this during the income and expenditure briefing for the months of November and December 2021, at the Treasury Building in Yenagoa on Monday. Duba was responding to a question on the government’s budget for the celebration of Governor Douye Diri-led administration’s second anniversary. The activities marking the governor’s second year in office, which started on February 7 and ended on February 19, included the inauguration of a number of projects and groundbreaking ceremonies of others. He said the administration was committed to its policy on transparency and accountability, adding that the government does not have anything to hide from the people of the state. Duba, while responding to the question, said, “This is a transparency briefing for November and December (2021). Why don’t you wait until we do the transparency briefing for the months of January and February (2022)? That’s the proper thing to do. “And you should understand that there is a committee that is in charge of the anniversary celebration. So, you wait. There is nothing to hide, this is not a briefing we are giving a report on the anniversary.” Also speaking, the Technical Adviser to the Governor on Treasury, Accounts and Revenue, Timipre Seipulou, explained that the government has an established financial procedure for income and expenditure operations. POLL He said all monies spent on the anniversary events could not be given in the transparency briefing for the two previous months, stressing that the government would provide all financial details at the right time. Seipulou, who gave the figures for November and December, said, “We have financial processes in the state. If expenditures are not made, they are not presented. All expenditures that are being made during the anniversary (celebration), be sure that they are budgeted for. “What is being spent at this time (of the celebration) can’t be extracted. At the appropriate time, expenditures related to the anniversary will be presented.”