ABUJA – A few days to the February 12th Area Councils Elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and the Minister of State for FCT, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, on Thursday wooed Abuja Traders to cast their votes for the All Progressive Congress (APC). This, according to them, will ensure seamless governance from the Federal to the grassroots levels and dividends of democracy will be enjoyed by all. The Senior Special Assistance on Monitoring, Inspection and Evaluation to FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah made the position of the ministers known when he played host to Great United Okirika Traders Association who came to felicitate with him on his appointment. 2023: A’Ibom Stakeholders Urge Akpanudoedehe To Run For… Basketball Africa League Announces Teams As Season Commences… He said, “But those of us in politics, we know without politics there won’t be government, we want all stakeholders to vote our party, APC, the Minister has always asked us to beg all stakeholders to vote for our party candidates because if we are not in power we are nowhere, the Minister and Minister of State, Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, have appealed to all traders to vote APC in the forthcoming Area Council election”. “FCT Minister Malam Mohammad Musa Bello is committed to the development of Abuja, he may not talk or shout about it but if you drive around the city, you will see construction works going on at Deeper life junction, Powerhouse Junction, Wuye Bridge among many others,” he added. Speaking on the plights of the Nyanya traders, Attah said, you need to have a good section for those who deal in second-hand clothes and second-hand items particularly as the market is being developed to factor you in. It is very cardinal like what we have in the Garki model market you already have a place nobody will say any task force is disturbing them on the road. His words: “COVID-19 has affected all our businesses and of the truth that we have been able to pull through Covid-19. We thank God we have been able to engage and I think we need to engage more. And if you observe what you requested for and I think you need to have a good section for those who deal in second-hand clothes and second-hand items particularly as the market is being developed to factor you in. It is very cardinal like in Garki model market you already have a place nobody will say any taskforce os disturbing them on the road. “Your place is strategic and the busiest, we are hopeful that you have a similar section on Nyanya market. We have spoken to the developer and we are hopeful that when the place is fully developed, we will start a deeper engagement, there might be a redesign. POLL “They can even carve out a place whereby you know you can trade within Nyanya. Research have shown that you are the busiest in the market. I commend you for leaving the road corridors. But Minister came to the market to see things for himself and allowed you to stay. “You people have been following up on your boundaries and I am very happy about this and am impressed. We are going to engage the developer next week. But the everyday market is factored in by the developer, that daily market will have to move.” Meanwhile, the Chairman, Great United Okirika Traders Association, Mr Christian Kalu said, they are enjoying the market today because they complied with the directives given to them. He, however, appealed to the FCT administration to factor in Okirika traders into the new market design.