Market Review A review of the market’s performance in the week under review showed a mixed trend- lukewarm and very quiet. But in between, we saw volatility in stocks and the index action, which tells you that the market awaiting a trigger. I can see that the triggers are gradually coming. You saw what happened in United Capital yesterday (Friday, February 18), you saw also what happened when Nigerian Breweries announced its dividend. These corporate actions and the strength of the numbers will ultimately determine how far the market would go, especially those that do not release their own audited accounts between now and end of March, with corporate actions. If these corporate actions come with good payout ratios, they will serve as another driver of the expected rally. I also want to tell you about the post-pandemic shift. Look, for example, at the performance of companies for the year 2020 which was dominated by developments around the pandemic outbreak and so much uncertainty, and compare them now to the numbers from these same companies for 2021. Look also at the rate of economic recovery, judging by the GDP data released last week by the National Bureau of Statistics. I noticed that although the Q4 GDP was positive, there was a decline, compared to Q3… We are now seeing where the economy is going… Tackling Traffic Induced Indiscriminate ‘On-Street Parking’ In… MTV Base Partners African Union, Dubai Expo For Africa Honour… Don’t forget that across the world, the market is a leading indicator of what is happening in the economy, which also feeds into and reflects in the capital markets. We are seeing that our economy has truly maintained recovery, despite the fact that it is still relatively weak and growth is shaky, but it is nevertheless a plus for the market. Those who know the interrelationships of these dynamics did not expect anything different from what the 2021Q4 GDP showed, after seeing the audited full-year and Q4 unaudited accounts of listed companies for the period under review. Remember that I have often said you should not be carried away by the market direction at any time, because there are many investors and traders in the market with different investment objectives. And if an investor has entered a particular position and sells after achieving a set profit target, it is wrong for you also to decide to also exit when you don’t have similar investment objectives… We noticed that Honeywell Flour was scarce, and gained 9.8%, what happened? Honeywell Flour is one of the most discussed stocks in this town hall since we started and even at other foras, including the first Masterclass that we had. It has been discussed and we’ve seen opportunities. As such, if you have made money and want to exit, you may and, if you want to enter also, there is still opportunity. We have discussed before that it is not the earnings of Honeywell only that is pushing the price. There are other fundamental, particularly the ongoing merger and acquisition deal. Whenever there is acquisition, it will influence price, because we want to take advantage of the potentials the deal offers. Also, there is another news filtering into the market of a likely share split, depending on what is decided. Consequently, as the news is coming to the market, people are reacting. As such, if you are in Honeywell at this point, I advise that you hold your position. Also, don’t be carried away by what I call momentary investing at this time, such that you decide that because there is pressure on that stock, you want to extend or adjust your set target. No. If you meet the target you set at the beginning, exit your position. I keep telling people, ‘don’t be carried away by the market’s direction.’ Once you enter a stock and you have set a goal and you meet it, you should be exiting slowly and taking your profit gradually. Never allow yourself to be carried away because the price of the stock is going up. Yes, people are in the market to buy low and sell high, while those who buy high want to sell even higher, depending on where the stock is going. What you are seeing as scarcity of Honeywell shares is a situation of more buyers than sellers, but that is not an excuse to shift your exit target. You are in the market to make money and all of these developments and news are the drivers of the market. Also, don’t forget that aside from Honeywell Flour, Flour Mills is already in Northern Nigerian Flour Mills and when you put all these together, it is already a giant in the industry, and can compete favourably with newly listed BUA Foods, because there is a market already. But I believe with this arrangement Flour Mills is making, the plan is to control a significant share of the market in the segments where it plays. I bought the rights issue of NPF MFB, but I have not been allotted? POLL That is the difference between analogue and digital technology. MTN IPO was done online, while that of NPF was the normal way of doing it. But, that notwithstanding, I learnt that the rights issue was successful and also you would have noticed that the numbers from their full-year unaudited account were positive. I said some time ago on this forum that for that company to post about 42 kobo Earnings Per Share for full-year, even if it is not audited, when audited, worst case scenario, you can have around 32 or even 40 kobo. The directors can afford to pay you even 25 kobo therefrom, judging by its history as a good dividend paying company. If you are there, exercise some patience, because that is one company that is consistent in paying dividend in the market. For me, I would advise that you hold your position, unless you have met your price target, in which case there is no reason why you should not exit. With this fantastic result and at current price, how far up can United Capital go, and can I still position? For income investors, nothing stops you from buying into UCap, even at this price, because as I said earlier, when looking at a company, there are things that attract you to it. Could be the fantastic figures posted, or the encouraging payout ratio. For a stock selling below N15 to be paying you N1.50, it means until the price gets to N15 that the yield is 10 percent. That is to say anybody that wants to take position can buy the stock at this price and even at N14, N15 or more, if you an income investor. For traders too who want to re-enter, no problem, but I believe that if you made money in this stock, you go to another stock from which you are expecting a similar kind of move and enter. For those that are dividend income investors, I will advise you can go back and enter, or if you’re not there, you can also buy into UCap because of the dividends. Not only that, the stock has shown strength and its numbers have been consistent. Unless something changes, like the line of business. But for me, I see the company’s Q1 coming out also powerfully as we have seen in the previous years. Can we still position in African Prudential? If you are in African Prudential, I will advise you also hold your position, going by what we saw in UCap, which is of the same family. True, this company may be lagging behind its sister when you compare their numbers, but I tell you, from the performance we saw in its Q3, that company can afford to pay a dividend of 60, or 65 kobo, but if the directors make it 70 kobo, fine. If you are in that stock, I would advise that you hold to see the full-year audited numbers and how the market will react to it. You are not expecting the kind of payment that we saw in UCap, but the numbers will determine the payout. If the directors pay anything about 70 or 80 kobo, good… That means the price can rally to around N7 or N8.00 per share, meaning at this price of N6.80, it is a good one for you to buy and watch. Russia-Ukraine Conflict Could Drive Us Inflation To 10% War In Ukraine Sparks Panic Buying At Polish Fuel Stations Someone earlier alluded to a possible good performance from UBA, can you give us an insight? If you look at the numbers from UBA Plc, judging by its Q3 performance, the board is likely to pay good dividend. Also, notice that at the end of the board meeting slated for Tuesday, the market reacted positively and later the price started coming down. We don’t know what may have influenced that, but I will tell you that from the results to be released for the full-year 2021, we are not expecting anything less than N1.00 EPS, together with what the board paid at half-year as interim, judging by the company’s almost N3.00 EPS. If you took time to study results of banks that released their unaudited figures, their Q4 was what also imparted their performance. As such, I don’t see UBA, from its almost N3.32 EPS as of Q3, which could come to around N4.00 by year-end, paying anything less than N1.00. This means we could be expecting a final dividend of 80 kobo, in addition to the 20 kobo interim already paid. And, if the directors make it N1.20 each, good for all of us in the market. But then, we must not forget that the board could recommend N1.00 or N1.20 and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the primary regulator of that sector, overrules, and then determine what is paid. As I said earlier, in any regulated sector there are advantage and disadvantages. This is one of the disadvantages, because how much dividend is paid depends on what the CBN approves. Already, the result has been presented to the CBN and awaits approval before it can be released to the market. For me, therefore, let’s just wait to see what the apex bank will approve. I am confident that UBA will not pay 35 kobo dividend like we saw last year, going by the numbers we are seeing. Neimeth has been hovering between N1.81 and N1.91, giving the potentials and investments in the sector, what is your outlook for the stock? There is a positive sentiment for the health sector, post-COVID and all, and that will go a long way also to influence every company in that industry, even as we can see now that the big names are going for international funds which come at cheaper rates for expansion purposes, coupled with government’s plan to give them more incentives. Recall also that the CBN, about two weeks ago, announced the extension of its single-digit interest rates moratorium for players in the critical sector, in which it intervened in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020 to 2023. This, I believe, is a plus for companies operating in that space. However, if you have made profit from the stock, you may also sell. As I said before, every company traded on the exchange has different capacities and also they have different time to rally. There was a time, for example, when Neimeth International Pharmaceutical was around 42 kobo and rallied to as high as N2.90. But it also came down, which is to say there is always time for every stock. If you achieve your investment goal fine, but if not, you can still hold on. But there is still positive sentiment for the sector that stock is in. And such sentiment will rub off on all of them- Fidson Healthcare, GSK, May & Baker, Pharma-Deko, and then Neimeth. Note also that government’s interest in that sector and the fact that the operators have access to cheaper funds, are developments that will ultimately reflect on their numbers. Check all of the numbers that emanated from these stocks, they are showing some kind of improvements, even if marginal. They are all looking up. Recall that before now, we were not hearing much from most companies in that sector because they were all struggling. You can see that life is returning to the sector and we are seeing it manifesting their numbers, which is a sign that investors in that sector will begin to smile gradually. Neimeth paid six kobo in the previous year and then seven kobo last year. I expect that going into the future, when things start unfolding, Neimeth would rally again. But this depends on your investment objective. If you have made profit, fine, sell and go to another one and come back again later. Between UBA Plc and Access Bank shares, which will you go for? I will start this way. You know, again, both of them have different management styles and characteristics. But for me, I will go for Access Bank. Why? I’ve seen the numbers from Access Bank, which is fast becoming a leader in the financial services industry, judging by the top-line. That means If Access Bank can improve its performance even in this last quarter of the full-year, we see the group growing its dividend the way it did for the interim. You see, Access Bank might go faster overall. For UBA, it is grossly undervalued in my own estimation, and it still has potentials for growth, especially with this new pan-African payment platform, which we expect will be very beneficial to it and such peers, especially Acess Bank, and Ecobank Transnational Incorporated, which operate outside the shores of Nigeria more than others. For me, I will first of all go for Access Bank, but can still come back to UBA, because I know that both have different time for their price movement. We are expecting around 80 kobo to N1.00 from them as final dividend. If Access Bank should pay anything above N1.00 or even 80 kobo this time to bring its total payout to N1.10, fine and I think the directors should be able to, because I expect Access to grow its dividend to come to the class of other first-tier players like Zenith and GTCO, since it is aiming to be at the top of the league eventually. If you want to be there, you must demonstrate it with your interim dividend that you are going somewhere if they also grow payout that will be nice. Looking at the third quarter result of Access Bank, it was not bad… because the EPS that will support payout is still there and I told you before that this bank has also branched out and we’re seeing the effects, despite the fact that the group is also investing. I expect that the share price of Access Bank can rally further if the expected full-year numbers beat market expectations. I am not in any way discouraging investment in UBA, it is still very attractive and cheap at this price. PARTICIPANT II: This is my intervention for the participant who earlier, during the market review segment, described investment in the Nigeria, saying it a local market… For me, looking at what is happening all over the world… For instance, right now, in the United States, things are becoming so expensive- inflation is so high, interest rate is getting high… even buying petrol here is more expensive, and right now, I believe investors will try to find somewhere else they can make more profit, so Nigeria is not a local market, neither is it an island where these funds won’t find their way back to in Africa. And if the funds find its way back into Africa, Nigeria is going to be one of the top places to look at to push these money, and this will naturally drive up the market. Is Beta Glass a stock one can enter in at this time? The price of Beta Glass has stagnated for a long time, and when the price of a stock is not moving, you can’t make good money therefrom. That’s where capital market investment is interesting, because it is a trend- it goes up and down and when a stock is not moving, I will not advice that you consider it, because anything that moves is what gives you money- whether it’s moving up or down. Beta Glass has remained flat for a long time. Looking at the Q4 of TotalEnergy and its 2022Q1 Forecast, what is your price outlook? I’ve said on this forum even as recently as last week that Total’s performance has really bounced back to what we used to know, but this was after two consecutive years of loses or setbacks, the company is rebounding or recovering, and you can see that in the 2021 numbers. The recovery was fast and the company came back to its feet. Also, don’t forget that the company is expanding into energy- solar and others that will be a plus for Total Nigeria, and the full-year numbers we saw – about N49.50 earnings per share… As a result, I believe it is safe to expect dividend in the region of N30 per share from the company. And if this happens it could push the price to around N310, N320 each, or even more, depending on the payout. Looking at the company’s forecast, you would see that the board is keen on sustaining the tempo of better numbers we have always associated with the company. That means, if you are buying Total for dividend, you are good to go, and even for capital appreciation, it’s a good place. You have noted the forecast Q1 cash flow of N40 billion and the number is expected to continue growing. The company’s operation is okay, and anywhere you see a well-managed company, it will be glaring to you, besides the fact that its share in issue is very small, which is why the company can afford to pay a good dividends and the price is sustainable. Also, the holding structure of the company continues to provide support for the price when it came down to a level, even before the improved numbers came and pushed the price up. Is any of our pharmaceutical giants among the five African countries WHO approved to produce the COVID Vaccine? I need to confirm that. However, before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, there were ongoing discussions between the Federal Government and May & Baker for vaccines production. I hear Fidson is coming into the mix.  But, whatever the case, it is a good development for our healthcare sector, because it will definitely rub off on others in the market, even as we continue to monitor the development. At the moment already, there is a kind of a production business between GSK and Fidson. The agreement will see Fidson manufacturing a product line for GSK at a cost, and the company will then distribute and sell. As such, Fidson is a stock one should associate with because it is becoming an industry leader, displacing GSK. And when the vaccine production business spins off and May & Baker clinches the deal based on ongoing discussions with government, that will be its own niche area, making it a stock to watch. In all, the post-pandemic era is a plus for Nigerian healthcare sector, if only we judge by the attention now being paid to the sector by government, the CBN and private sector investors. What is the outlook for Julius Berger and Custodian Investment? If you are in Julius Berger, hold on. We have seen the numbers last week already, and it has given us an insight into where it is going on the strength of its numbers. Also, if you look at the company’s history, the payout is in order and if sustained in the 2021 financial year… I see the company paying nothing below N2.50 or N3.00 which will be a plus. Also, if you look at the activities in that stock, it shows that something has happened, aside from the fact that the company is also diversifying into the agricultural sector- cashew nut processing. For sure, this being an election year, most of the state governments in Nigeria would embark on road construction contracts, or conclude ongoing ones as evidence of what they have done and would point to during the next campaign season. Due to these array of contracts, I see the company being mobilized and getting more payments, which is why the outlook for the first quarter 2022 is looking good to support what we saw in the 2021 full-year. It is a good stock to buy, and if you want to buy, take action tomorrow… if you are already there, hold your position. What is your take on Custodian Investment? Custodian Investment is a holding company of some sort for subsidiaries engaged in different businesses. If you there also, hold your position. If the price is above N8.00 to N8.50 each, slow down… if you can get in at N8.50, go ahead, but I know that the company paid interim dividends already, we don’t expect anything less than 50 kobo as final dividend. This period is dividend period and this is what will support the price, which is why I said that dividend payout is another factor that drive price, which are those fundamentals those who position early are waiting for in the form of dividend news to and push share prices up. If you are buying now for dividend, you are good to enter. The numbers are not bad even as it was a bit flat for third quarter. We are looking at a dividend payment within the range of 60 to 70 kobo. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is an excerpt of the weekly free question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd (February 19, 2022), with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. email: ambrose.o@investdata.com.ng.