LAGOS  – The Securities and Exchange Commission has stated that it is engaging the National Orientation Agency as well as regulators of public agencies to curb the activities of illegal operators. Mr. Lamido Yuguda, Director General of the SEC, made the disclosure in a goodwill message at the opening ceremony of a National Fact-Checking Course organized by the National Orientation Agency in Abuja. Yuguda, who was represented by the Executive Commissioner Corporate Services of the SEC, Mr. Ibrahim Boyi, stated that Nigeria’s investment climate has continued to witness the proliferation of illegal Fund Managers, popularly referred to as Ponzi Schemes as the promoters of these Schemes continue to defraud millions of citizens, by promising them mind-boggling returns on investments. Paying Attention To Details How Retailers Might Shop In Two Decades – Euromonitor According to him, “Such Schemes with all the illegality and promises of unrealistic returns have burnt the fortunes of many ambitious investors, from Yuan Dong Ponzi to Galaxy Transport, Famzhi Interbiz Limited, Cowlane and Durell, and the infamous Mavrodi Mundial Movement (MMM). “The upsurge of these Schemes has undermined the reputation of the capital market and dampened investors’ confidence, among other things. This has created a considerable challenge to the growth of our market, and the Commission is striving to change the narrative by instilling a fair, transparent, and orderly market”. Yuguda said while the SEC, in collaboration with other regulators in the financial sector, strives to clamp down on merchants of fake news and Ponzi Schemes, investors also have a huge role to play. “Investors are advised to always confirm if the investment product, scheme, or company is registered with the SEC before investing. This could be done through our website: www.sec. gov.ng or via email to sec@sec.gov.ng; or from other regulatory authorities. “Investments enable growth in wealth, thus while encouraging more retail investments, we urge you to invest in investment classes and products approved by the SEC, which can be confirmed through the channels provided above” He stated. POLL The SEC Director General described the course as a timely programme that would go a long way to check the scourge of fake news, misinformation, and disinformation. He said disinformation, misinformation, and fake news are often intended to instigate hate, anger, and acrimony; consequently, causing disaffection, division, violence, and even war.