P/HARCOURT  – In view of the raging accusations and counter-accusations over some companies contributing in worsening the health situation in Rivers state through the emission of incomplete combustible circumstances into the atmosphere, Indorama Nigeria has flatly denied any complicity. The company came out clean when it said that it was wrong for anybody to say that it contributed to the pollution of the environment by emitting black soot into the atmosphere thereby endangering the lives of residents of the state. Dr. Jossy Nkwocha, Head of Corporate Communications and Special Adviser to the Managing Director, while taking Journalists on a tour of the company’s facilities at Eleme, said: “we have taken this day to bring journalists from different newspaper houses in Rivers State and at the national, to come and see for themselves the process of our production. Why I’m Investing In Computer Education – Dekor Create Job Opportunities To Niger Delta Youths, Group Urges… “We have shown you all our fertilizer operations, all our petrochemical operations and to show that we have an open book and to show you that Indorama operations does not emit any soot whatsoever”. Dr. Nkwocha informed that Indorama has a closed system and this closed system does not allow any strenuous gas to escape. “And as they have explained to us in the control room we buy this natural from either Agip or TotalEnergies and we don’t allow it to waste by flaring it. So you can see that Indorama does not emit soot or anything in any form”. He said that the company is always proactive because people are making insinuation. Officially, nobody is accusing Indorama of emitting soot, but some people are carrying out insinuations and “we have the responsibility to explain to the public to clear such insinuations”. On what the company is doing the stem the negative tide of environmental challenge posed by the soot in Rivers state, Nkwocha explained that “Indorama knows we have a capable Governor (Nyesom Wike) who is handling the soot matter so “it is not our own responsibility to begin to cast aspersion on anybody. Our governor is handling it very ably. He is an action governor”. POLL Speaking further, the Public Relations expert said Indorama has staff strength of over 7, 000 full time workers and contractors, they come here every day. “So that employment of more than 7, 000 persons, if you extrapolate it by their family members and others you could see the number of persons. “We supply fertilizer to about 32 million farmers. We have also told you that we supply UREA to blending plant and each of them may employ about 100 persons. So, Indorama is helping so much in creating jobs. “We have two major products: Petrochemical and Fertilizer. The petrochemicals are the engine room of Nigeria’s industrialization. Without those things we will spending so much money to import petrochemical and because we are producing in Nigeria, the country is saving so much money. So, we are doing what they call import substitution”. According to him, in the area of fertilizer, Nigeria used to import Fertilizer worth about N7billion every year. Today, the fertilizer is coming from Indorama and any other company that produces fertilizer but Indorama has more than 95 percent of the market of fertilizer in Nigeria. Customs Declares War On Smugglers, Deploy 18 Gunboats Ogoni Lawmaker Sets Up Data Base For Micro, Small, Medium… “We are also paying dividend to Rivers State government, LGA and the federal government who are shareholders in Indorama. “For the first time, we are the people that have host communities 7.5 percent of shares in the company that is why the host communities don’t block Indorama gate. They also gave 2.4 percent to Nigeria staff. “The government has been doing so much for Indorama. The federal government and state government are supporting Indorama in diverse ways”, he said.