UGHELLI – Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical) Asaba, Delta State, Dr Josephine Anene-Okeakwa, has clarified issues on a petition against a lecturer in the school. The Provost who made the clarification when members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Delta State Council, paid an unscheduled visit to the school, said the petition was against a Chief Lecturer in the school, Mr Okonta bordering on entry cadre. She explained that she was not the one who employed him but was made to understand that he was employed as an Analyst, but as at then, there were no computers in the school, so he was seconded to be lecturing in the school of business. UK Bans Russian Airlines From Entering British Airspace, Russia… Joe Biden To Nominate Ketanji Brown Jackson For US Supreme Court According to her, “the person we are talking about has been studying since he got engaged in the College to the effect that he obtained his Master’s Degree and then PhD. All his credentials are in his file, nothing has changed except that the petitioner was insisting that he had 3rd class in his degree at the point of entry. “But they never mentioned that he has also gone to upgrade himself. He had always been in the business of lecturing and when the College left the era of the typewriter and procured computers, he was made the Head of ICT of the institution. Through him as a Departmental Head, the College got various accreditations. Such a person is not a neophyte or incompetent in the system. “However, when the petition was written challenging his entry cadre into the College, I called him and gave him query to that effect, which he responded to. I then set up a panel where Mr. Samuel Ilabor who is the Chairman ACTU is a member. The petition was also forwarded to ACTU Chairman.” “After coming up with their report, that is from the Anti Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU), the report was supposed to go through the process, but that was not done as the Committee sent a petition directly to ICPC in Abuja. ACTU has no power to hire and fire, they are a Management Committee that deals with ICPC. It was after their report had gone to Abuja, not even Benin which is our zone that they had a rethink and submitted a copy to me, and I minuted it to the management from where it should go to the Council for decision-taking.” “I can only deal with matters affecting staff from level 1-9, anything from there and above, it is the Council that handles that. They couldn’t wait for this process, they sent their petition to the media and started dragging my name and picture in their untrue story.” POLL “I didn’t shield Mr Okonta, even though we know this whole thing is happening because of the cooperative election which didn’t go down well with the other faction. Mr Okonta was the Electoral Committee Chairman and for obvious reasons didn’t play ball as expected. And the people voted their choice because of the subsisting fraud case against the then incumbent group.” “They just want to smear my name in this matter. I feel disappointed that as a result of election matters, they are taking laws into their hands to destroy the name of the organisation where they earn their livelihood, to the effect that they were using fictitious names, one Dr Isitua Ifeanyi Obi to write petitions with phone numbers of an Hausa man and another ignorant staff who is in the Netherlands on sabbaticals.” “So, I thank you for hearing our side of the story from me and other management staff. I have nothing to hide, I run a collective administration. Things that I don’t know about are the things they are using against me; but the God that I serve has continued to vindicate me”, Dr Anene-Okeakwa said.