LAGOS – Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State, who is the chairman of the Lagos State electoral committee has charged members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State to unite the party ahead of the 2023 general elections, stressing that it is only unity that would win the state for the party in 2023. Diri said, “All we want is unity in the Lagos State chapter and if you don’t want unity then you are not a PDP member. PDP in Lagos will not be divided again after this Congress. “I want to appeal to those who are contesting to see the interest of the party first, far and above their personal ambitions so that the party will come out stronger in this Congress. Liverpool Win Carabao Cup Group Alleges Smear Campaign Against Akpabio “We try to encourage some form of consensus arrangement, in as much we are also ready to open the space for people to exercise their right, which is also what is going on. The delegates will determine who becomes their chairman and every other office. I would have loved a situation where the leaders will come together and agree on a form of consensus The governor maintained that it is only unity that would make PDP occupy the governorship position in Lagos State, pointing out that he expects the Congress to be peaceful, successful and build the Lagos State chapter of the party together. He added, “Therefore, we would like all of us who have been accredited as delegates to listen to your leaders and elders and do the needful and vote on who they have already agreed on. “In case you don’t believe in that, you equally free to express your franchise. We are in a democracy and we are not forcing it down on anybody.” At the time of filing this report, Agege, Alimosho and Amuwo-Odofin delegates have casted¹ their votes. POLL The Lagos State Congress which is holding at the Airways Ground by Archbishop Vining Memorial Church Cathedral, Ikeja, is being coordinated by seven members of the electoral committee, with  Sen. Diri Douye, as Chairman, H.E. Erelu Olusola Obada, Maj-Gen. Sarkin Yaki Bello (rtd), Hon. Awwal Tukur, Chief Peter Atofarati, Hon. Peter Orji, as Members and Hon. Gabriel Onyeweife as Secretary As of 5:30 pm, voting was yet to commence, and some accredited delegates were yet to arrive the centre from where the congress organising committee was accrediting them. Speaking with journalists at the venue, a delegate and lawmaker who represented Ajeromi/Ifelodun constituency at the House of Representatives, Honourable. Rita Orji said that the congress is a ‘family affair’ and that the consensus arrangement would be maintained. Orji said that the congress would be a death sentence for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State because the party will come out united after the Congress. Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… NCDMB Stakeholders’ Tour Berths Akwa Ibom She said that the party would work assiduously to mobilize residents in ensuring they participate in the electoral process that would lead to the victory of the PDP. It was gathered that the party’s leaders and elders had resolved to have a consensus arrangement to pick the executive officers of the party.