LAGOS – Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Emmanuel Babayaro, has charged the duo of Austin Eguavoen and Emmanuel Amuneke to guard against any form of a clash of interests as both men manage the national team. Recall that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) announced the retention of Eguavoen as the team’s interim manager while at the same time appointing former Barcelona winger, Amuneke, as the team’s coach. Meanwhile, speaking to our correspondent, the Atlanta Olympics gold medalist said both former players should be able to manage any such issue that could arise in the course of doing their job. Choice Of Amunike Will Add Value To Super Eagles –… AFCON: How I Gingered Super Eagles To Play Excellently Well,… He said both men may have different approaches to the game but that only when they manage such situations that they would work harmoniously. “Honestly the issue of conflict of interest has been my fear because these two guys are top players in their days and in the coaching, they have been there. They have different approaches to this game as managers. “I see Amuneke as a kind of reserved person who believes in his own principles and may want to enforce it on the team. “On the other hand, Eguavoen may not be that very open with accepting all in this regard and that is where the issue comes in. “I see such situation arising though they may not make it public. But I think that is where some of us their friends will come in and make sure things work well. POLL “I have no issue with their appointments because they are quite experienced but they should agree always and make sure there won’t be a clash of interests because Nigerians are watching,” he said. Amuneke, the former coach of Tanzania who led the country to their first AFCON in over 30 years penultimate year, is coming into the Nigerian mainstream national team as a manager for the first time after guiding the cadet team to glory at the World Cup couple of years back and has been the preferred choice of many Nigerians since the exit of Coach Gernot Rohr.