Grant Thornton Nigeria recently played host to the leadership of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), when Mrs. Comfort Olu Eyitayo, CFA, CFE, mni, FCA, the 57th president, and some council members, paid a courtesy visit to the firm at its corporate headquarters in Victoria Island, Lagos. On hand to receive the ICAN delegates, where members of the executive board, partners, directors, and managers of the firm, namely Dr. Ngozi Ogwo, managing partner/CEO, Mr. Orji Okpechi, principal partner & head, advisory services; Mr. Victor Osifo, senior partner & head, audit and assurance services, Mr. Nkwachi Abuka, senior partner & head, tax services, among others. While welcoming their guests, Dr. Ogwo commended the institute’s bold initiatives that aim at sustainable growth and rapid development of the accounting profession. “We applaud your pragmatic leadership, and we are proud of the projects envisioned and currently being executed by your team,” she said. Ministry, First Bank Seal N50bn Funding Pact On Agriculture In… FAAN Targets N188bn Revenue Generation In 2022 Dr. Ogwo noted that the firm has a robust relationship with the institute and will sustain it through established collaborations aimed at highlighting the significance of the profession in Nigeria and globally; noting that ICAN has a responsibility and important role in the management of the national economy. Mrs. Eyitayo commended Grant Thornton Nigeria’s support of ICAN activities in past years while applauding the firm for its advancement in the profession at the global and national levels. She expressed satisfaction with the firm’s positioning as a strategic growth market (SGM) within their global network. She congratulated Dr. Ogwo on her indelible feat of many ‘firsts’. “I am particularly proud of you as the first female Managing Partner of Grant Thornton Nigeria. You remain an inspiration to the up-and-coming female Chartered Accountants and female professionals in general”, she said.