LAGOS – Chairman, Stanbic IBTC Plc, Basil Omiyi, has urged Organisations to migrate to cleaner energy sources for their operations because of the capacity to reduce the impact of emissions on the environment. Omiyi, who stated this, acknowledged that the economy and society are wholly owned subsidiaries of the environment. He, therefore, stated that the use of green energy will help keep the environment stable to support economic and social activities. Sterling Bank Showers 50,000 Youths With Gifts For Valentine… Xiaomi Restates Commitment With Redmi Note 11 Series Launch In… He noted that for development in Nigeria to be sustainable, there must be a balance that guarantees that the environment and society are not negatively affected by economic activities. “Green energy is devoid of carbon emissions (unlike fossil fuel energy sources which harm the environment) and is one of the major contributors to climate change. Corporates can shift to cleaner energy sources for their operations. Financial institutions can help advance this shift by facilitating funding (in line with their risk appetites) which will be necessary to achieve growth in the green energy space”, he said. The Stanbic IBTC Chairman also said his organisation was committed to creating a greener environment across its locations. “At Stanbic IBTC, building environmental resilience is one of our four sustainability pillars. This pillar demonstrates our focus on environmental footprint management”, he said. He emphasised that the Stanbic IBTC has continued to implement and expand on programmes to reduce its carbon emissions. POLL Some of the ways include reduction of energy consumption in office locations using energy-efficient fittings; adoption of cleaner energy sources across the office locations, as well as the Go-Green programmes across some branch locations to reduce energy and paper consumption and improve water efficiency. The organisation has also adopted tree planting programmes to help with carbon sequestration. Already, over 300 trees have been planted across the country and the number will grow significantly in the near future. He added that most developing economies do not possess the capacity to implement green energy due to the technical and financial requirements while, conversely, the developed world is responsible for the bulk of carbon emitted into the atmosphere.