European Union leaders have agreed to another set of sanctions, taking aim at Russia’s financial, transport and energy sectors, among other things. European Union leaders have agreed to a sweeping second set of sanctions against Russia at an emergency meeting of the bloc in Brussels Thursday evening. These sanctions cover the financial sector, the energy and transport sectors, dual-use goods as well as export controls and export financing, visa policy, additional listings of Russian Individuals and new listing criteria,” the European Union said in a statement. European Leaders Agree To A Second Wave Of Russia Sanctions Russia Bans UK Flights Over Its Airspace After Sanctions The EU leaders said new sanctions would have “massive and severe consequences” for Russia. European Council President Charles Michel posted the statement after Thursday’s summit, calling the measures a response to “Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against Ukraine.” The sanctions, which come after Russia invaded Ukraine Thursday morning, had been billed by the EU’s foreign policy chief Josep Borell earlier on Thursday as “one of the harshest packages of sanctions we have ever implemented.” The EU approved a first round of sanctionsafter Russia recognized two separatist breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine on Tuesday. Those sanctions, which went into effect Wednesday, mainly took aim at Russian banks and lawmakers. Though leaders generally agreed on imposing harsh penalties that impact the Russian economy severely, they remained split about cutting Russia off from the SWIFT global interbank payment system in the hours leading up to the emergency meeting. Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo told reporters upon his arrival at the summit that he was open for discussion on the topic, while German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said it was important to agree “to those measures that have been prepared — and keep everything else for a situation where it may be necessary to go beyond that.”