IBADAN  – One Paul Adedoyin, aged 38 has been pa­raded in Ibadan, the capital city of Oyo State for impersonation and robbery. Paul was paraded alongside other 32 suspects over cases bothering on kidnapping and armed robbery at the Oyo State Police Command Headquarters on Thursday. The suspect, according to the state Commissioner of Po­lice, CP. Ngozi Onadeko was arrested on January 29th, 2022 at about 1500hrs in his hideout with the phone of the victim. INSECURITY: Nigerian Army Shows Readiness In Partnership With… Customs Laments Loss Of 4 FOU ‘A’ Officers To Smugglers, Arrest… Onadeko, while briefing journalists maintained that, “On 22nd May 2021, one Olay­iwola Mary was attacked and robbed of her Infinix Cell Phone, some amount of mon­ey and other valuable items by an unknown hoodlum who was said to be armed with guns and some other dangerous weapon at High School area, Ogbomoso. “The incident was later re­ported at this office and after a discreet investigation, on 29th January 2022 at about 1500hrs, the hoodlum was arrested in his hideout and the Infinix cell phone carted away from the victim was recovered from him. Further investigation revealed that the suspect had always been parading himself as a serving military personnel and when a search warrant was executed in his house, Military exhibits were recovered from the suspect. “Upon interrogation, the sus­pect confessed to the crime and also confirmed that he had been using the military uniforms and accoutrements to disguise as a serving soldier so as to con­ceal his criminal activities. In­vestigation is now in progress,” Onadeko maintained. While speaking with Sat­urday INDEPENDENT, he said, “the uniform and other military items found in my possession are not mine, they belong to my friend who is a soldier but he’s not in Oyo State currently. I only wear the cam­ouflage once to take pictures. I bought the phone that was tracked to me six months ago, I’m not the owner of the mili­tary camouflage.” Exhibits recovered from the suspect are two pairs of mili­tary camouflage uniforms, one military cardigan, one empty pistol jacket, two military face caps, one military rain coat, one lanyard and one military cam­ouflage knickers. POLL Among the suspects parad­ed were three gang of kidnap­pers terrorising Onigari axis of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The names of the suspected kidnappers, according to the State Commissioner of Police, who briefed journalists over the development are Aliu Umaru, Isiaka Ibrahim and Tambaya Usman. CP. Ngozi Onadeko, in her address, maintained that the press conference became nec­essary in order for the Oyo State Police Command to account for some of the outstanding break­throughs and accomplishments made by some of its finest tac­tical, operational and investi­gative departments through commitments, discipline, perse­verance and remarkable acts of valor in the onslaught against crime and criminality within the State and its environs. She said, “owing to the ris­ing cases of kidnapping along Lagos-Ibadan expressway and the ugly incident of a case of kidnapping/ murder that hap­pened at Onigari area of Lagos expressway on the 07/01/2022, the Oyo State Police Command immediately swung into action through the swift deployment of intelligence and tactical as­sets. “These have led to the arrest of one Bashiru Abubakar ‘m’ alias Maku-Maku, a syndicate member of the kidnapping gang terrorising Lagos/Ibadan expressway, on 14/1/2021 at about 1530hrs.