LAGOS – Dakkada suffered a setback in their plot to get off the relegation zone before the end of the first round of the NPFL 2021/2022 season following a shock 1-0 loss at home to visiting Gombe United. The match was played on Thursday at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium, Uyo. Returning to Uyo for their second home fixture after serving a three games ouster to Benin, Dakkada had hoped to build on the win over Kano Pillars on MatchDay 11 to secure some respite from the drop zone. After naming Aniekan Ekpe on the MatchDay squad, Coach Umar Danlamni had hoped his lads will improve on their goal scoring when they came up against Gombe. Dakkada have scored eight goals in 12 matches and in the match on Thursday, Dalami opted for a 4-3-3 formation, with former Rangers man Femi Ajayi as point man, while Musa Bashiru was dropped to the bench. Fans Spot Something Strange About Ferran Torres’ Shirt During… Dembele Fiercely Booed By Barcelona Fans Despite Xavi Plea Dakkada made significant gains in the first half but failed to beat goalkeeper Gideon Gambo, who made several impressive saves. The visitors also threatened on two occasions, as Ibrahim Yahaha was a handful for Harrison Ibukun and Karim Abdoulaye in the Uyo side’s backline. Former Akwa United safe hands, Akor Itodo, was drafted in to replace Gideon in the second half. Just like the former, the goalkeeper kept Dakkada panting for most of the second half. Gombe would have for themselves an opportunity to take the lead on 70 minutes, when substitute, Chidi Ernest, struck the underside of the woodwork. Five minutes before stoppage time, a beautiful team move released Emmanuel Ayaosi, who skipped past Sani Shehu, before the winger was upended inside the penalty area, to gift Dakkada a glorious opportunity to seal the game. Dakkada thought they had their moment when substitute Musa Bashiru took responsibility to convert the penalty on 88 minutes. The striker sent Itodo the wrong way but struck the underside of the woodwork afterward. The euphoria of the missed penalty propelled Gombe for one final push in added time. Ibrahim Yahaya wrestled past Ibukun, before setting up Yusuf Abdulazeez, who wired into the top corner to gift the visitors all three points. POLL The result drops Dakkada to 18th on the log, while Gombe United moves to 8th position. Coach Aliyu Zubairu (Gombe) admitted after the game his lads were lucky to have stolen the show in the closing moments. “We were very lucky not to have conceded seven minutes before the end of the match. It was a good game and a good penalty decision by the referee, but they could not take their chance. “We started with the younger players, and as the game progressed, it got bigger than their level, so we had to draft in more experienced players in the second half. The younger ones could not match the experience of Dakkada’s captain (Aniekan Ekpe). We had to bring on Williams (Ukeme) to help stabilise the game for us. It was a well thought game plan for us”, Zubairu said during the post match interview. Dakkada faces a defining moment with a date away to city rivals Akwa United on Sunday, while Gombe will face Plateau United next Wednesday. Diogo Jota Ruled Out For Norwich, Targets League Cup Final… Three Man City Youngsters Named Among World’s Most… Match Stats:Corners: 5-4Shots: 8-5On Target: 5-3Fouls Won: 17-14Yellow: 0-2Red: 0-0Saves: 2-5Offsides: 2-3