P/HARCOURT – In view of the prevailing poverty ravaging almost all the Oil producing communities of the Niger Delta region, members of the community development committee, CDC and the residents have been challenged to track numerous projects and money meant for such projects in their respective communities to better their wellbeing. A non-governmental organization known as Connected Development (CODE), called for government and citizens’ partnership in projects service delivery in the Niger Delta region, particularly Rivers State communities. CODE made the call in Port Harcourt, during a stakeholder’s capacity building workshop on “understanding the funding vehicle for development in Rivers State.” Group Calls On FG To Fastrack Issuance Of Licences To Modular… Indorama Fertilizer Donates 380,000 Notebooks To Schools In… Kingsley Agu, the programmes Manager for CODE, while speaking on the sideline of the one-day training, said the event targeted oil-producing communities in Rivers State, because of the dire need for development in the areas. Agu said that government projects were scattered across the 23 local government areas, stressing that without collaborating with the natives, it would be difficult for government to effectively monitor their (projects) execution and completion as specified. “It is based on the fact that we need to empower oil-rich communities (in Rivers State) to gain more transparency and accountability in the delivery of social amenities in their respective communities. “It is literally impossible for government to lead itself alone. Government needs the partnership of citizens and other stakeholders to be able to achieve its goal. Projects of different kinds are scattered across the various communities. “It is not possible for government to approve, implement and monitor at the same time, projects execution alone. So, the government needs the partnership of people that dwell in the communities. It is these people that would ensure that these projects are properly executed according to specification. With this partnership, better service delivery is achieved.” POLL He disclosed that the group had tracked about 330 community projects across the 36 states of Nigeria, believing that with public awareness and advocacy such projects maybe given the loveliness they deserved for the well-being of the people. Agu also disclosed that the model used by CODE to track projects in the country has been adopted in eight African countries. According to him, there could have been no better time for such training than now that is the eve of the 2023 general elections where politicians would be called to give answers to projects entrusted to them to execute for the betterment of the community people. Rivers State Lead for CODE and Executive Director of Light Hope SuccourWide Initiative, Evelyn Williams, said it was important for communities to engage the government to ensure that resources allocated to projects in their respective communities are judiciously utilized. “The essence of the event is to build capacity of citizens to understand the funding vehicle through which budget allocations are being released. It is also about how to engage government effectively to ensure that resources that are allocated to their communities are utilized for improved service delivery.” Why I’m Investing In Computer Education – Dekor Create Job Opportunities To Niger Delta Youths, Group Urges… Eze Gabriel Udesi, the Paramount Ruler of Ekpena Community in Ahoada East Local Government Area of the state, on his part, said government and citizens’ partnership in projects service delivery would bring harmony, transparency and accountability, as well as speedy projects execution in various communities. Chief Udesi called on the youths of all Niger Delta communities to engage their Political leaders and the oil producing companies. “I have told the youths in my domain to shun violence and restiveness but rather engage the political leaders and ask them questions about projects assigned to them for their development”. The workshop was organised by CODE in partnership with Ford Foundation.