….Pledges To Support Anyim Presidential Ambition ABUJA – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Caucus in the National Assembly on Wednesday predicted the fall of All Progressives Congress (APC) after its convention scheduled for February 26. This is even as the federal lawmakers pledged to support the presidential aspiration of the former President of the Senate, Anyim Pius in the 2023 election. 2023: Emefiele Not Running For Presidency, CSOs Declares 2023: Osinbajo Not Running For Presidency, APC Chieftain Insists The PDP Caucus in the National Assembly, who called for unity, advised the presidential aspirants in the PDP against using insulting words against each other. Anyim had met with the PDP Caucus in the National Assembly on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, his House of Representatives counterpart, Ndudi Elumelu, lawmaker representing Enugu North Senatorial District, Chukwuka Utazi, ex-Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, former governor of Abia State, Senator Theodore Orji, among others. Addressing the lawmakers and others in Abuja, Anyim, who was the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, explained why he decided to consult with the lawmakers because that was his former constituency. He said: “Each time I look back at my political history, I vividly remember that my National Assembly experience is still my best. I needed to report myself to my primary constituency. If you are hearing about this journey, I felt this formal outing will make us explain it better. POLL “The whole idea is for people to know that we believe in PDP, we are proud of PDP, committed to PDP and our future is tied to PDP. Sometimes ago, I took a look at the political environment and said I should on your behalf, seek the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. “I cannot do it on my own, I cannot do it alone. But if you ask me to stop, I will stop where you ask me to and if you ask me to go ahead, ‘be bold and courageous, that you are with me, whatever the obstacle on the way’, I will go on. “When I remember you are with me, I will be bold enough to continue. I have come out to ask you whether we can set out on this journey. If you advise otherwise, I will listen to you attentively. I am a party man. I am here to seek your advice, your guidance and your support as well as your partnership.” In his remarks, Elumelu advised the PDP to unite and take advantage of the crisis rocking the APC, urging the presidential aspirants to speak with one voice. He said: “I want to thank our Presidential hopeful for bringing the light and leading the way by being the first to come and consult with the National Assembly minority caucus. You have set the pace and we understand what this means to the grassroots and for that, I give you kudos. APC State Legislators Endorse Yahaya Bello For 2023 Presidency,… 2023: I Had Meetings With Stakeholders In UK Over Election… “APC as a party is disjointed and PDP has successfully shown that it can lead the way. Today, we have completed our convention and all the congresses were done without acrimony. Of course, you know that APC set out to produce 36 states chairman and in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), but succeeded in electing 92. So, I wonder how they are going to do their convention. “It behoves on us to be more united. The fallout of February 26 (date slated APC elective convention) will form a new Nigeria where PDP will be leading the progressives to rescue Nigeria. And for that, I want to plead with our Presidential hopefuls to talk to their supporters. We should not abuse ourselves; we should not insult ourselves. At the end of the day, it is the same house that we all belong to. “Let all of you go out and canvass for support. Tell the people why you think you are competent enough to be the President of Nigeria and carry our flag. That is something that is very important. “We don’t want to see people talking about age, talking about what is not encouraging. What is encouraging is for us to take over Nigeria because APC has corrupted Nigeria. And because they have done that, we can only show Nigerians that we are the best alternative to the APC.” He berated the APC lawmakers and one of their ministers, for their conduct during debate on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. He said: “Look at the Electoral Act that we passed. If you are popular, you should be man enough to face the people and ask them to vote for you but where a Minister said the President will not sign because he feels that the Electoral Act was selfish; it is unbecoming of a Minister who is supposed to be representing Nigeria and I condemn that entirely. We pray God that we will never see APC again.” Also in his remarks, Senator Abaribe pledged the support of the PDP Caucus for Anyim ambition, adding, “how can we tell you not to go ahead being one of our own? On behalf of the joint caucus of the National Assembly, we say go on and take charge. We are with you.”