ADO EKITI – The Ekiti State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) may be in for another round of controversy as the party’s Deputy Governor nominee and  Ekiti State, former Commissioner for Works, Mrs Funmi Ogun, has rejected the offer. Mrs Ogun, in a terse statement, attributed his action to the alleged disinterestedness of the National leadership of the party to her candidature. This was contained in a letter dated February 24, 2022, and entitled : ‘RE: My Nomination As Deputy Governorship candidate ‘,  and addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, on Thursday. Bankers’ Assets Declaration: Reps Fume As MDAs, Shun… Fuel Scarcity: Bayelsa Launches Special Team On Petroleum… The letter reads: “This is to formally inform you that I am not unaware of my nomination by Ekiti Stakeholders for the position of the Deputy Governorship Candidate in the 18 June 2022 Gubernatorial Election. “Notwithstanding their good intentions, I formally write to reject the nomination for personal reasons. “However, I appreciate the uncommon recognition and assuring the Party that no effort will be spared at ensuring our victory at the election. “The Candidate can therefore be approached for a fresh Nomination”. Making further clarification, the former Commissioner, who confirmed authorising, however, debunked the widespread insinuation that certain disagreement with her principal, former governor  Fayose was the reason. POLL According to her, the leadership of the party in Ekiti had endorsed her as the Deputy Governorship candidate to the party’s candidate, Hon Bisi Kolawole and forwarded the same to Ayu-led National Working Committee, whom she alleged refused to act appropriately. “Yes, I want to confirm the authorship of the letter, but it wasn’t meant to slight anybody or confirm that I had a disagreement with our leader,  former Governor Ayodele Fayose, who is presently abroad for a medical check-up. “All the stakeholders in Ekiti politics had endorsed me and forwarded my name to our national leadership, but they didn’t act on it. So. I have decided to reject Crasmy’s nomination for me not to be on collision course or ruffle feathers with our national leaders. “I have written this letter while awaiting the reaction of our leader, Ayo Fayose and the national leaders. But this doesn’t suggest any trouble in Ekiti PDP”.