IBADAN – As part of his efforts to address the disunity among the people of Oke Ogun geo-political zone of Oyo State and also to attract development to the area, a member of House of Representatives representing Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/ Iwajowa/Kajola federal constituency, Honourable Shina Abiola Peller, has unveiled Peller Unity Cup (PUC) Session II. As he maintained that only sports can bring the needed unity and development to the zone. Peller made the disclosure while speaking at a press conference heralding the second edition of the Peller Unity Cup (PUC) at Okeho in Kajola local government area of the state. Stop Chasing Shadows, Nnamdi Kanu Is Not Your Problem, Rita… Real Madrid Secure First Refusal ‘Agreement’ For… Oke Ogun which falls under Oyo North Senatorial District consists of ten (10) local government areas. Speaking at the event which had the attendance of Onjo of Okeho, Oba Rafiu Osuolale, representative of Aseyin of Iseyin, Oba Abdulganiy Adekunle Ologunebi, ex-international players, Dosu Joseph and Femi Opabunmi among others, Peller expressed displeasure over low development in Oke Ogun as a region in Oyo State. He said that the major contributing factor to the stagnant stage of the region is disunity. Peller, however, insisted that the only panacea to bring unity and development to the region is sports. The federal lawmaker noted that football, being a universal language that everyone understands, will help connect people of the region, stressing that he introduced the competition in order to address the disunity among people of the area. POLL While addressing the audience, Peller remarked that sports especially football will be an avenue to help bring the people together as one, and that will at the same time promote peace, youth engagement and development. He said, “We all gather here today for multi-purpose, but topping the list of the reasons we are here is my utmost desire to promote peace, unity and progress of my people, the great people of the Oke Ogun region. “Football, being a universal language that everyone understands, helps connect people together irrespective of tribal, political or religious belief. It helps to unite people. This is what the PUC stands for; it is a unifying tool for the people of Oke Ogun. “At this juncture, permit to recall on how the PUC came into being. The idea of the PUC struck my mind in 2017 following a brainstorming session I had with some members of my team. “Our discussion bordered on Oke Ogun as a region in Oyo State, its underdevelopment and what could have been a major contributing factor to its stagnant stage. It was during this period that it dawned on me that disunity was one of the major factors for the underdevelopment. Building Collapse: Senate Rejects Move To Bring Back NIBRI Under… Dele Momodu, Ali Baba, Oluomo, Mudi, Others Headlines Moses’… “In trying to address the disunity issue, I thought of something that could help bring my people together as one, and that will at the same time promote peace, youth engagement and development, and that was how the idea of the PUC was birthed. “I am so delighted that we have in our midst today the great men in the football world, the great Joseph Dosu, Femi Opabunmi, Oyo State Football Association, Oke Ogun Coaches Association and others whose presence speaks volumes of how important the PUC is. “Let us make use of this common phenomenon (football) to achieve extraordinary and uncommon things that all will be proud of. Let’s imbibe the spirit of sportsmanship as we continue to promote unity, peace and progress, through the PUC, in Oke Ogun, Oyo State and Nigeria at large.”