The founder of Contemporary Amperex Technology Limited (CATL) – China’s largest electric-vehicle battery manufacturer and a Tesla supplier – played down the risks of any potential US sanctions on its business in a recent meeting with analysts, according to internal memos kept by external participants that were leaked to Chinese media. Robin Zeng Yuqun, chairman of CATL, told meeting attendees that the company currently relies on US semiconductors to build power management systems for its battery units, but added that these chips could be replaced with domestic alternatives if needed, Shanghai’s state-backed online media outlet Cailianshe reported on Tuesday. Zeng said the required chips can be produced at the 28-nanometre node, a technology that Chinese chip foundries already possess, according to the report. 2023: Group Canvasses Tinubu As Consensus Candidates Of All… Unlawful Suspension: Court Grants OGFZAA Manager’s Plea To… Shenzhen-listed CATL declined to comment on the report on Tuesday. This comes two days after the company issued a statement denying a slew of rumours about its business, including allegations that CATL was seeking professional opinions on the possibility of being subject to US sanctions. The manufacturer said it has filed a complaint to the police regarding “malicious rumours” that were intended to mislead the market and damage CATL’s reputation. CATL is currently not on any US export watch list or blacklist. Concerns around the business prospects of big-name Chinese technology companies have not abated ever since telecommunications giant Huawei Technologies Co was denied access to advanced US chips by Washington, dealing a heavy blow to the Shenzhen company’s once-lucrative smartphone business. Despite lingering US-China tensions, Zeng was said to have told meeting participants that CATL plans to push into the US market and is in early stage talks with American partners to build plants in Mexico and Canada. POLL Shares of CATL rose 8 per cent between Monday and Tuesday, following the company’s denial of rumours and Zeng’s reported remarks. CATL’s stock price tumbled nearly 20 per cent last week. The US Commerce Department added 33 Chinese organisations to its “unverified list (UVL)” last week, citing the agency’s inability to verify the “bona fides” of these entities through end-use checks. Companies on the list must supply additional documents and go through other checks to deal with US suppliers. The UVL differs from the better-known Entity List, which restricts access to US exports unless the exporter secures a licence from Washington. The latter list includes 300 Chinese companies, including Huawei and China’s largest chip maker, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.