ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority on Tuesday assured that the adulterated Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) in circulation has been isolated and withdrawn from the market, including the loaded trucks in transit. A statement by Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, made available to journalists in Abuja, noted that announced the circulation of limited quantity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), commonly known as Petrol, with methanol quantities above Nigeria’s specification was discovered in the supply chain, but assured the product has been promptly withdrawn from market. The agency stated that its technical team in conjunction with NNPC Ltd and other industry stakeholders, will continue to monitor and ensure quality petroleum products are adequately supplied and distributed nationwide. Group Writes Minister Of Petroleum, NNPC Demands Action On… ‘Expect Heated Debate, Fireworks, High Emotions On PIA At… “The Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (The Authority) wishes to inform the general public that – limited quantity of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), commonly known as Petrol, with methanol quantities above Nigeria’s specification was discovered in the supply chain. “Methanol is a regular additive in Petrol and usually blended in an acceptable quantity. “To ensure vehicular and equipment safety, the limited quantity of the impacted product has been isolated and withdrawn from the market, including the loaded trucks in transit “Our technical team in conjunction with NNPC Ltd and other industry stakeholders, will continue to monitor and ensure quality petroleum products are adequately supplied and distributed nationwide. “The source supplier has been identified and further commercial and appropriate actions shall be taken by the Authority and NNPC Ltd. POLL “NNPC Ltd and all Oil Marketing Companies have been directed to sustain sufficient distribution of Petrol in all retail outlets nationwide. “Meanwhile, NNPC has intensified efforts at increasing the supply of Petrol into the market in order to bridge any unforeseen supply gap” the statement reads in parts.