ABUJA – An election monitoring group, under the auspices of the Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) has criticised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for substituting some trained adhoc staff on election day before deployment to the polling units. This, the observer said partly contributed to the malfunctioning of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) during the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Area Council election held on Saturday across six districts. Executive Director, Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA), Faith Nwadishi while releasing a preliminary report on Saturday in Abuja, said it was observed that INEC officials and materials in most places arrived late at about 8:50 a.m. We Saw Military Personnel Displaying Partisanship –… #OsunDecide2018: Observer Group, Lawmaker, Commend INEC,… She however pointed out that there were some exceptions where officials and materials arrived early between 7:45 and 8:30 a.m. Nwadishi stressed that security agents arrived on time in many of the polling units, while the security personnel were professional in their conduct. She said it was also observed that there was a low voters turnout in the city centre but there was an impressive voters turnout in the outskirts. Nwadishi noted that vote-buying was observed across the board, adding that while political parties were busy buying votes, citizens were also willing to sell for a pittance. She said votes were sold between N500 and N2000. POLL On the malfunctioning of BVAS, Nwadishi stressed, “the significant factor that we need to understand is that the adhoc staff that were handling it are the number one culprit in the malfunctioning of the BVAS. “What we are advocating for is to do more training for the adhoc staff and to ensure that the electoral officers don’t change trained adhoc staff on election day. When you change somebody who has been trained for somebody who has not been trained we will continue to have this kind of problem. “Our observers also reported cases of slow BVAS functioning and malfunctioning which in turn made the voting process very slow and kept many voters waiting. This led to an agitated and tense atmosphere in some instances. “On the conduct of INEC officials CTA observed the cooperation of the INEC observers in ordination and maintaining peace but in some areas because of the massive voters’ turnout, they were overwhelmed and agitated but still maintained their calm for a peaceful election atmosphere. “We commend the ad-hoc staff for the preferences given to nursing mothers, women, the elderly and persons with disabilities. There were complaints of congestions at polling units despite the creation of more polling units by INEC. ” It is important that citizens move to polling units with lesser numbers. However, INEC might decongest the polling units by allocating citizens to the newly created units. Adhoc staff should be properly trained to operate the BVAS While INEC should endeavor to deploy only trained adhoc staff and should not replace trained staff with untrained people as this has continued to jeopardize the smooth electoral process,” the preliminary report added.