Frank Lampard wasted no time in winning over Everton supporters as his side picked up a crucial win that eases their relegation worries while adding to Leeds United’s. After recording just one victory in their previous 16 league games, dating back to the end of October, it was the perfect way for Everton to respond to a midweek defeat at Newcastle that had left supporters fearing the worst. But two goals within the space of 13 first half minutes – the first time Everton have scored more than once in the first half of a league game in a little over 12 months – had home supporters firmly buying into the Lampard era. Live: Atletico Madrid 2, Getafe 3 Live: Norwich 0, Man-City 4 The fact both were scored by defenders also seemed fitting on a day when Everton were all about graft and no nonsense. The first came, after just ten minutes, when Anthony Gordon’s clever flick played in Donny van de Beek whose low cross was challenged for, at the far post, by Dominic Calvert-Lewin and Diego Llorente. The loose ball spun up invitingly for Seamus Coleman who bravely stooped to head in from close range. Rodrigo hit the bar with a spectacular volley for the visitors before Everton struck again with a goal that looked like delivering a knock-out punch to Marcelo Bielsa’s side. Gordon’s right-wing corner was superb, outswinging away from the keeper and directly in the path of Michael Keane who rose powerfully to head in. POLL Leeds, whose season has been badly impacted by injuries, suffered another after just eight minutes when defender Stuart Dallas limped off and struggled, thereafter, to come with Everton’s press and energy. In the 37th minute, that press won the ball off the Leeds defence and Alex Iwobi placed a shot just wide from 18 yards before a dangerous opening for Richarlison was blocked by Mateusz Klich. And, before the interval, Calvert-Lewin’s angled shot forced a fine save out of the diving Illan Meslier. There was also time, before the half-time whistle, for Rodrigo to strike the cross-bar for a second time, with a similar effort, a sign of the poor luck that Leeds had suffered thus far But, despite Bielsa re-shaping his team at the interval, taking off Raphina who had been pressed into too many defensive duties for comfort, there was little early sign of a Leeds recovery. Again, Man-Utd Stumble Against Southampton, Ronaldo Struggles Man Utd Held By Saints After Losing Lead Again In fact, Meslier had to be alert to dive and keep out a curling effort from England under-21 winger Gordon who continued to cause anxiety on Leeds’ right wing. Leeds saw more of the ball in the second half, but without truly troubling Jordan Pickford in the home goal, and Lampard’s introduction of Dele Alli as a late replacement added some attacking urgency. Iwobi had a dangerous opening blocked but, on 78 minutes, a third secured the points. Allan drove forward through midfield, with little attempt to obstruct him, and after Richarlison received his pass, the Brazilian switched the ball to his left foot and hit a shot from 18 yards that hit Gordon and went in. Only Meslier’s brilliance denied Everton a spectacular fourth as Alli found fellow substitute Salomon Rondon whose volley was tipped over.