BENIN – After 125 years, two of the over 10,000 Artifacts looted by the British Army from the palace of the great Benin Kingdom in 1897 were on Saturday returned to the ancient city of Benin. Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, received the Cockerel valued at £2 million and the bronze head of an Oba valued at £500,000 from the Jesus College, Cambridge University and the University of Aberdeen, Scotland both in the United Kingdom respectively. Presenting the returned artefacts to the monarch at his Palace in Benin City, Nigeria High Commissioner to Britain Tunji Ishola, said they were at the palace on the express mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari to personally present the items to the Oba of Benin APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns According to the High Commissioner, “I must say I am here just for one assignment. I am directed by Muhammadu Buhari, the president of the federal republic of Nigeria. My assignment is very simple, to directly bring these objects to Oba of Benin Kingdom. That is the presidential directive”, he said. While appealing to the people of the great Benin Kingdom to join hands with the Oba to preserve the artefacts just as they were preserved for 125 years since they were looted from the kingdom, said the Cockerel is placed at £2 million and the bronze head of the Oba is £500,000. “I want to thank the British Government for preserving the Artifacts to still be in the same form they were when they were taken in 1897. “Not only that, value has been added to these artefacts. As of today, the Cockerel is valued at £2m at Great Britain and it is brought back here. Oba Head also value at £500,000 in Great Britain, and it is also brought back here”, he said. Also speaking, Director General, National Commission for Museum and Monument, Abba Tijani, said the commission has been at the forefront, pushing for the repatriation of all stolen artefacts back to their original owners. POLL He said he has constantly reminded those holding unto the looted artefacts that the artefacts represent the culture and heritage of the Benin Kingdom and not just artefacts and so, they should return them to their original owners. He said today, history has been made and that they have been finally returned, saying that hehopes to travel again to negotiate the return of the remaining once still lying in various museums in Europe. On the part of the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, he said the military expedition by the British was not a retaliation for the killing of some British soldiers as most of the literature would have us believe. The Oba, whose speech was delivered by Prince Aghatise Erediauwa, said the truth is that there was a calculated and deliberately conceived plan to attack Benin for its territorial dominance and also for her treasures. Ewuare said the result was a destruction of a civilization that equalled or even surpassed that of the aggressors. Pantami’s Professorship Title Not Illegal, UNILAG Lecturer Slams… Osun APC Guber Primary: Aregbesola Loyalists To Seek Redress In… The monarch said it was thought that the kingdom, totally decimated and in ruins in the aftermath of the war, would not rise again adding that by the grace of God and their ancestors, they are still standing. Ewuare II maintained that the current conversation is about restitution and that the International scholars and most museums now agree that keeping stolen items is immoral and illegal. The monarch thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and others who have worked assiduously for the return of the artefacts just as he calls on genuine collaborators to join in the push of the return of others that are yet to be returned. Governor Godwin Obaseki, who was represented by the Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Monday Osaigbovo, in his remark said that they would liaise with the Oba of Benin to ensure the return of other artefacts to the palace of the Oba of Benin as soon as possible.