Nigeria’s serial entrepreneur, sought-after inspirational speaker and philanthropist Dr Daniel Moses Omwirhiren, will on Sunday 27th February 2022, play host to heavyweights across Nigeria’s socio-economic strata, as he launches his book, ‘You Don’t Need Money To Be Rich’ at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, Lagos. The Keynote address will be delivered by Leadership Consultant, Linus Okorie, whilst the review will be anchored by Prof. Efe. M Omwirhiren. The event would also have in attendance Oba Kazeem Salami Adesina, Osobia of Makun Omi; Publisher, Ovation International Magazine and presidential aspirant, Chief Dele Momodu; Chief Godwin Ejinyere; Chief Hero Omwirhiren and Nigeria’s stand-up comedy king, Ali Baba. Stop Chasing Shadows, Nnamdi Kanu Is Not Your Problem, Rita… Real Madrid Secure First Refusal ‘Agreement’ For… Others are the Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya known as Mc Oluomo; One of Nigeria’s most iconic fashion designers, Mudi Africa and the effervescent rib-cracking comedian and master of ceremony Godwin Komone otherwise known as Gordons. Addressing journalists on the importance of the book, the author said, “Our treasures blossom to fulfil our destiny from the interaction of the natural, artificial to the realm of the infinite, which make up the complex state of life. “Many have given to despair and resigned to fate, whilst many have resorted to gambling their way the murky waters of life. To live a rich, successful and fulfilling life beyond what money can buy requires a mix of simple multi-tested and proven approach- all that and more I am offering in the compendium ‘You Don’t Need Money To Be Rich’. “Certainly, money is needed to live rich. The mystery behind the use of money and how the relationship is fostered with it determines how far we can go in this life. “It is how money is made to work for you that make the difference between the peasant and the pauper. POLL “Away from the norm, the book clearly redefines the roadmap of destiny fulfilment, how anyone can overcome the many obstacles that stand in the way of financial independence, fulfilment, self-discovery, and financial freedom and wealth. “The book will help a lot of people throw off the bowlines, sail away from the harbour, catch the trade winds in their sail, explore, dream and discover the life they’ve always wanted to live,’’ he stressed.Dr. Omwirhiren, an indigene of Okufuoma in Okpe Local Government Area of Delta State of Nigeria, was born into the family of Omwirhiren. From childhood, he has shown signs of great wisdom, knowledge, and a perfect grasp of the human quest for good living and successful endeavours.