MINNA – Countdown to the 2023 general elections, the former Military Head of State, General Abdulsalam Alhaji Abubarkar has cautioned Nigerian politicians against acts capable of building undue tension and destroying the country and her citizenry. While politicians who are seeking the various elective positions at the federal, state and local government levels should adhere strictly to the rules, the former President said reminded them that the deployment of youths who are the future leaders to serve as their political thug amounts to destroying the future leaders hence should not be allowed. He told Nigerian youths not to accept the offer by personal gain seeking politicians to engage in self-destruction but seek for better opportunities which can be provided if they work towards choosing or voting for leaders who would work for the collective interest of all Nigerians not minding their religious, tribal or political inclinations. 2023: Denying Igbos Presidency Is Great Injustice – Clark 2023: Atiku Dumps Peter Obi, Select Wike As His Running Mate Former President Abdulsalam Abubarkar spoke as one of the recipients of the FUT, Minna Honorary Awards as part of the schools 38th Founder’s Day/30th Convocation ceremony which took place at the schools’ main campus, Gidan-kwano on Tuesday. The former Head of State nevertheless lamented the worsening security situation across the country and called on Nigerians to join hands in tackling the menace by providing useful information to security agencies on the hideout and the activities of enemies of this country. “We are facing a very hard time in this country. We are fighting a war without any morality, without any force. Let us all join hands with security agencies by providing useful information on how to secure the territorial integrity of this nation.” Abdulsalam who also encourage citizens on the need to monitor their immediate environs for aliens with evil intents said, “As we move towards 2023, I appeal to politicians across all three tiers of government to desist from using our children, our grandchildren and our youths as tools for self-destruction. “I urge youths to resist being lured into serving as political thugs which will only lead to serving as tools for self-destruction to politicians. You have a better and a more honourable option of securing your future and the future of this country by supporting and voting for individuals who have our collective interest as a people at heart.” POLL Also speaking, the President African Development Bank (ADB), Dr Akinwunmi Adesina and the GMD NNPC, Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari who were also conferred with the Honourary Award commended FUT, Minna for the recognition and promised to do their best for the growth and development of the citadel. Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello of Niger state in a remark congratulated FUT, Minna management under Professor Abdullahi Bala for setting the pace in technological advancements by the number of achievements recorded in the past four years.