ABUJA – Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation(OHCSF) has said that the embargo on employment in the Federal Public Service since March, 2020, is still in force with the exception of health and security sectors as well as certain critical vacancy positions which must be filled. This was contained in a statement issued by Mr. AbdulGaniyu Aminu, Director Communications, in the OHCSF. The statement is coming on the heels of the allegation of secret recruitments going on in the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government as well as understaffing of higher institutions of learning. NLC Restates Support For Autonomy Of Local Governments, State… World Leaders Set To Discuss Concrete Actions To Ensure… It would be recalled that the Coalition of Civil Societies for Equity, Justice and Good Governance had earlier listed some of the ills allegedly committed against the state by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, who the Coalition asked to resign. The statement has however, absolved the OHCSF of any wrong doing. The statement reads in part: “The attention of the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF) has been drawn to a Press Conference said to have been organised by the Coalition of Civil Societies for Equity, Justice and Good Governance on ills allegedly committed against the state by the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation held at Sharon Ultimate Hotel, Garki, Abuja on 23rd February, 2022. “It was alleged in the conference that many universities are grossly understaffed. “The Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation hereby presents the following facts for public information and guidance of members of the concerned Civil Societies. POLL “The embargo on employment in the Federal Public Service since March 2020 is still in force with the exception of health and security sectors as well as certain critical vacancy positions which must be filled. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation is not a recruiting agency. “It is therefore wrong to allege that the Office has been secretly recruiting staff to fill up vacancies. “In addition, appointment/recruitment into Federal Public Service is not subjected to the whims and caprices of any official. It must conform to processes and procedures as contained in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation circular, Ref. No. 59814/ S.7/ C.8/ IV/T7/140 of 11th August, 2021. “Nevertheless, to ensure that Federal Establishments and tertiary institutions have critical manpower/human resource for sustainability of functions, the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, the Federal Ministry of Education and the National Universities Commission (NUC) ensure that each application for waiver for employment from universities is properly scrutinized before being considered. Flour Mills Plc Appoints Sadiku To Board Of Directors ITF, NCDMB Commence Training For 100 Youths On Vocational Skills “It is also a breach of administrative procedure for higher institutions of learning to write directly to the OHCSF in an attempt to evade scrutiny by the aforementioned supervising/regulatory authorities. “Hence, the Office will not be pressured into granting waiver for such in view of the existing embargo. We wish to emphasise that waivers are not granted retrospectively rather approvals are given before recruitment.” The statement explained that the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation in line with its functions, remains committed to its mandate of overseeing establishment matters, adding that the Office would not be deterred by attempts to distract it from fully implementing the laudable initiatives of the administration, especially as they pertain to the development of human resource.