ABAKALIKI – Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State said he was optimistic that Governor David Umahi would fly the APC presidential ticket in the 2023 general elections. Emegha, who stated this while briefing Journalists on Friday at the State’s APC secretariat, shortly after he returned from Abuja for his inauguration that took place on Thursday, said Umahi’s performance as a Governor had made him a beautiful bride within the APC and beyond, ahead of the presidential race. According to him, the people of Northern Nigeria are rooting for Umahi because they believe that he is the only presidential aspirant who has the capacity to unite and develop the country. 2023: We’re Already Preparing Osinbanjo For Presidency… 2023: Avoid Using Our Children, Youths For Political Gains,… “I’m very confident that His Excellency, will fly the APC presidential ticket. With what I’m seeing, I’m being pampered now, people are already seeing me as a villa boy. Prominent people now cluster around me, even when I was in Abuja because they are seeing me as the APC State Chairman from the South-East zone that will produce the next president of the country. “A lot of people are already doing nationwide consultation for Him (Umahi), even without his knowledge. So, I have so much confidence that he will not only fly the APC presidential ticket, but he is going to be our brand new president come 2023.” Emegha further said, contrary to speculations, there was no factional APC in Ebonyi State, adding that those claiming to be what they were not were noisemakers, seeking attention. He noted that one Haroun Ajah who was claiming to be the authentic APC Chairman in the State was merely deceiving the uninformed members of the public, as he was not a registered member of the APC in his ward. He, however, noted that the APC was a large family, too big to accommodate everybody, and assured of his readiness to reconcile all aggrieved members of the Party in the State.