LAGOS – Stakeholders in the judiciary sector has emphasized the need to embrace the use of Small Claims’ Court as a means of providing an accessible, inexpensive and speedy resolution platform for simple and liquidated debt recovery disputes. They agreed that the essence of the establishment of the Small Claim’s Court which has been widely embraced is to ensure the fast track of small claims as well as to resolve some other challenges which include the decongestion of the Magistrate’s courts. The law experts adopted this submission at a three-day workshop with the theme; “Strengthening the Operation of the Small Claims Court in GIZ-SEDIN Partner States”. Southampton Score 2 Goals In 3Mins In Comeback Win Against… Mahrez, Debruyne Give Man City Two-Goal Win Over Brentford The workshop had in attendance participants from SEDIN’s partner states which include High Court Judges, Magistrates and lawyers from different states across the country. A Lagos State High Court Judge, Justice Yetunde Adesanya while delivering a paper on ‘Small Claims Court- History, Purpose and Operations’ said there is need for more publicity and sensitization of the public on the existence and operation of the Small Claims’ Court to improve on the number of cases filed. She added that the Lagos State Judiciary is presently collating statistics to validate the position that the operation of the Small Claims’ court is now helping to decongest the High Court in the state in the enforcement of monetary claims within the jurisdiction of the Small Claims’ Court and that litigants are now more likely to reduce their monetary claims to bring it within the jurisdiction of the small claims court rather than go to the High Court. Justice Adesanya further added that Small Claims has improved the economy of the state and the country at large as it has positively impacted on the global outlook of the nation and of course Wold Bank’s ranking on the ease of doing business in Nigeria. She however stated that there is room for improvement to enable the court achieve all of its objectives and record a much more improved percentage of concluded cases within the stipulated timeline. POLL “We recognize the need for continuous training of the Magistrates and personnel of the court including the Assistant Chief Registrars, Court Registrars and Sheriffs of the Small Claims’ Court in the Lagos State Judiciary.” Justice Taiwo Olatokun while speaking on the topic ‘Jurisdiction, Operation of the Small Claims Court and Commencement of Actions’ said the Small Claims should be a very important part of our legal process, saying; the Small Claims Court will be established all over the country in the years to come. She said: “It is important that Magistrates of the Small Claims’ Court be mindful of the fact that the process is simplified to ensure speedy Justice and be firm and disallow applications that will delay the cause of justice while complexity and technicality associated with a litigation should be discouraged. “Enforcement of judgement should not follow the usual path of execution, as no Justice is served where judgement is obtained but it cannot be readily executed.” Also, Mrs Adenike Shonubi, the Deputy Chief Registrar, Lagos State spoke on the ‘Service of Process; Assignment of Cases and Administration’.She opined that the existence of Small Claims’s Court is to ensure a time cost-saving process, as well as having access to an efficient justice delivery system. Malaria: Oyo Partners PMI-S On 2-Day Retreat For Health… Be Concerned About Your Successor, Stakeholders Urges Buhari She said: “it is therefore worth the effort of Lagos State Judiciary to continuous sensitize the public through Jingles and provision of Handbooks in various languages as well as ensuring adequate training not only of the Magistrates of Small Claims Court but also the Court Registrars and support staff. Mrs YO Ekogbolu, was among the speakers who delivered a paper on ‘Proceedings at the Small Claims Court’ at the workshop.