BENIN – The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has reaffirmed its readiness to boost export from Edo via continued engagement with relevant stakeholders in the sector. This was the submission of the NEPC Benin office at the end of a one-day business round table with stakeholders in the state held in Benin. The forum had as its Theme: “Promoting and Sustaining the growth of Non-Oil exports in Edo, Prospects, Challenges and Way Forward”. FG Trains 40 Farmers On Orange, Fleshed Sweet Potato Cultivation… NDE Commences Training Of 25 Unemployed Graduates On Solar Power… Mrs. Chinyere Victor, Head, Products and Market, NEPC, Benin, said that the forum was to interact with stakeholders with a view to boosting export from the state going by the vast non-oil products available in the state. “Edo is rich in various non-oil products that can be produced, processed and packaged in huge amounts for export purposes. “So we want people in the state to know more about how to do export and how to use digital platforms to boost export of their products”, she said.Mr Joel Edionwele, Permanent Secretary, Edo Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperative, n his remarks said, the forum was to sensitize export stakeholders on opportunities that exist in the state, both for AfCFTA and other markets. According to Ediowele, “There is so much non-oil products in the state that we can package for the export market to earn income and develop our domestic capacity.” Mrs. Rhone Peters, Coordinator, Edo Export Cluster, identified inadequate finance and non-production of crops to meet international standards as part of challenges affecting export from the state. POLL Other challenges exporters encounter in the state were listed as high cost of logistics, lack of certification for certain products, multiple payments among others. The meeting was also attended by representatives from the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, Nigerian Shippers Council, AMES Edo Inland Dry Port, NAFDAC, Edo Investment Promotion Office, Financial Instructions as well as Medium and Small Scale business operators.