Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, speaks on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill which was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari last week, developments in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and other issues. Excerpts: President Buhari finally signed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law last Friday. He however demanded immediate amendment of  Section 84 (12) of the new law, which bars political appointees from voting or being voted for in political parties’ congresses and conventions. What is your reaction to that? President Buhari has been very generous in signing the bill into law. The national assembly is a very mischievous organisation. The last time, the bill was sent, what President Buhari was against was the issue of direct primaries. The whole idea was ‘take back the bill, remove direct primaries and send it back to me for assent’. However, the national assembly removed the direct primaries clause and then put in other selfish things that will help themselves to get elected more easily at the expense of other group of public servants. That is what created the confusion and that is why Buhari couldn’t sign it on time. If I were him, I will not sign it.  But I give kudos to his generosity in signing it. I convict and condemn the national assembly for acting in bad faith and in subterfuge for going behind and introducing certain things outside the bill itself which caused the delay. However, the public is so undiscerning in this country. You see the public moving en masse in one direction like herdsmen. Nobody is thinking. The first time, this people introduced direct primaries which was not in the Act. Then, everybody was condemning Buhari for objecting to it, which I agree with him entirely because that was not the Act that was agreed. The lawmakers only did that for themselves. The president sends it back and said take away direct primaries return it to me for assent but they still put some devious things for themselves. That was why I said they are very lucky that it is Buhari who is a generous man who signed it. If it is me, I would not sign it. I will still send it back until they are disciplined to be able to do things in a straightforward manner. 2023 Election: Outcome Of PDP Presidential Primaries Will Shock… 2023 Presidency: Will Emefiele Heed The Clarion Call? After much delay, your party, the APC has finally fixed its national convention for March 26th. How confident are you that this new date has come to stay? Are we sure that is Buni’s last trick? Are we sure he doesn’t have another thing up his sleeve? This man was appointed as APC caretaker chairman for six months. He’s managed to do magic, turning over and over, doing all sorts of somersaults. He extended the six months to one year; added another six months and it became one year and half. It is now going to two years and the man is still somersaulting and doing more magic.  The question is, what does he want? Now we are hearing from the sides, former president, Goodluck Jonathan wants to join APC. Why would a man who had been president before denigrate himself to that level? And I hear that the conspiracy is to bring in Jonathan as APC presidential candidate and Buni as vice-presidential candidate. If APC wins, Jonathan will go away after four years and Buni becomes the president. That is the rumour I’m hearing now. You cannot subject a whole nation and a ruling party to your ambitions and all sorts of tricks just because you want something for your tiny self at the expense of the remaining 200 million Nigerians. This man called Buni wants something for his tiny self and he has been playing APC on his fingertips and turning the party round and round for two years instead of staying there for six months. They got rid of (Adams) Oshiomhole and they asked Buni to stay there for six months and hold a national convention. But he has refused to do that, instead he has been doing all sorts of funny things and bringing in people of dubious backgrounds into the APC fold as if the party has no principles and ideologies. They just allow all manners of shady characters into the party without any questions asked. Today you are PDP, tomorrow you are in APC. Buni has brought APC down to a level of opportunism and makes it look like a party without morals. The way things are going, he is going to destroy the APC because of the way he keeps on postponing the convention. It is very clear Buni doesn’t want to give up power. The way I see it, he wants to be in charge of APC when the presidential primaries is held. That is what he has been planning all along but he will fail eventually. He will never preside over that presidential primary. I can assure you on that. Buni and Akpanudoedehe are the ones responsible for all the travails of APC in the last two years. If anything goes wrong and APC loses the 2023 presidential election, they will carry the consequences of that failure on their heads.  All Akpanudoedehe cares about is getting appointments. Promise him any appointment, he will smile from ears to ears and kiss your boots to get any appointment. The issue of contaminated fuel imported into the country has led to fuel scarcity in the last one month. Some have claimed it is a deliberate action to sabotage President Buhari’s efforts. Do you also share that view? POLL I don’t think the contaminated fuel issue is a deliberate action against Buhari. I suspect it is a deliberate action for profit. This contaminated fuel is cheaper. So, they imported it and sell it at the normal price and claim a huge profit out of it. I think that is what they attempted to do that backfired.  That was what happened which has put us in this mess that has lasted for three weeks. It is simply due to greed and love of money.