. Parents Forum, Stakeholders Seek Truce, Students Jitter LAGOS – As the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is set to commence a two-day meeting at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka to finalise the union’s decision on impending strike anxiety has gripped students and their parents. The NEC of ASUU is the highest decision-making organ of the union that determines the position of the body of University lecturers on issues of interest. ASUU Tasks FG On Implementation Of Conditions Of Service, Others ASUU Threatens Indefinite Strike Over Alleged FG’s Failure To… It would be recalled that at the last NEC meeting of the Union, all branches were directed to observe a day of mobilization and sensitization of members, students and the general public to the impending strike action over government insensitive and unwillingness to implement the renegotiated 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement which will usher in a new and robust public University system for the country and members. As the NEC meets, the union will make the final decision on the strike expected to be reached by voting on Sunday. In an interview, ASUU’s National President, Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke explained that the NEC of the union will decide whether members should go on strike or not over some demands made. Prof. Osodeke lamented that despite meeting with the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, on October 14, 2021, some of the issues bordering on funding for revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowances, University Transparency Accountability Solution (UTAS), promotion arrears, implementation of the renegotiated 2009 ASUU-FGN agreement, and irregularities in Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) payment have not been met. We Work Like Elephants, Eat Like Ants POLL Dr. Adelaja Odukoya, the Coordinator, ASUU Lagos Zone had during a sensitisation exercise held on Tuesday at UNILAG, said: “We are perplexed and disappointed that Federal and State Governments are not responding to our consistent appeals for a reason to bring about genuine transformation, driven by highly motivated human capital, in the education sector. “ASUU wants to inform Nigerians that our members can no longer tolerate a situation where they work like elephants and eat like ants. The sensitization is, therefore, intended to bring to the public knowledge the refusal of the Government to honour the agreement freely entered into with our Union in December 2020 before the strike was suspended.” Adelaja urged Nigerians to hold the government responsible if another industrial action hits the nation’s public tertiary education system. There are 106 federal and state universities across the 6 geo-political zones of the country. Parents’ Forum Seeks Truce, Anxiety Grips Fresh Students Hold FG Responsible For Impending Paralysis In Public… Failed Promises: ASUU May Embark On Strike As fresh students of the University of Lagos and their parents arrived at the Akoka campus for the 2021/2022 matriculation exercise, the bold banner hoisted by ASUU welcoming its NEC and members to the institution had kept many worried about the fate that awaits the new students. Mrs. Victoria Osinuga, the General Secretary of the University of Lagos Parents’ Forum called for a truce between the Federal Government and members of the Union. Mrs. Osinuga said,” As parents, we appeal to the federal government and ASUU to revisit all issues and shelve the strike. Our children have gone through a lot caused by the pandemic and social upheavals in the country. “They should please exercise more patience with the government. The FG should fulfill signed agreements with the union,” Mrs. Osinuga, please. Besides, Prince Victor Adesida, a parent appealed to both the government and the union to negotiate further and avoid another dark cloud that may put the public universities system in limbo. “ASUU members should be mindful of the incessant strike on the quality of their graduates. I know they have endured over the years but they should reconsider the positions of both students and their parents. Asking the government to cough out about N90 billion at this period is outrageous. ” We all know the present government and others before it has failed the citizens. I am not opposed to ASUU’s demands for whatever is due to the union but closing down all public universities will not go down well with me,” Prince Adesida said. To Pastor Williams Osikewu, closing down the universities will amount to fraud against innocent children.