BENIN – The Nigeria Police, Edo State Command, has arraigned one Chief Johnson Atseleghe ‘m’ 54 years, before an Evbuoriar­ia Magistrates’ Court, in Benin City over alleged assault on an octogenarian. The defendant, Johnson At­seleghe, who is the Iyesere of Warri, is being tried on a one-count charge of assault. Police Prosecutor, N. A. Uk­pebor Esq, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on December 31, 2021 and January 1, 2022 at Ologbo Community, Ikpoba-OkhaLocal Government Area of Edo State. Mutilated Body Of Middle Aged With One Year Free Health Services… Afikpo Community Elders Move To Checkmate Cult Activities Ukpebor said the defen­dant did unlawfully assault one Grace Tietie ‘F’ by beating her up with his fist or blow and inflicted injuries on her head and thereby committed an of­fence punishable under Section 351 of the Criminal Code Cap 48 Vol.11 Laws of the Defunct Bendel State of Nigeria 1976 as applicable in Edo State. Ukpebor said the offence contravened Sections 351 of the Criminal Code Cap. 48 Vol. 11 Laws of the defunct Bendel State of Nigeria, 1976, now ap­plicable in Edo. Section 351 prescribes one year jail term for the assault. The defendant, Chief John­son Atsekeghe, however, plead­ed not guilty to the charge pre­ferred against him. The Magistrate, Festus Okoro, admitted him to bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum, who must be a resident within the juris­diction of the court. POLL The magistrate, thereafter, adjourned the case till March 22, 2022 for further hearing. It would be recalled that an octogenarian, 84 years old Mrs. Grace Tite Keke of Olog­bo Dukedom in Ikpoba Okha Local government area of Edo State recently called on relevant authorities to come to her rescue as she was allegedly beaten up by one Chief John­son Asheleghe, the Iyesere of Warri kingdom and his boys. Mrs. Tite Keke said some persons led by the Iyesere of Warri, Chief Johnson As­teleghe beat her and some oth­er persons up over a certain festival normally held by the Itsekiris residing in the com­munity She said, “Trouble started when a rival group stormed the festival ground challeng­ing their authority to hold the festival without the consent of the Iyesere. Chief Johnson Asheleghe, the Iyesere of Warri kingdom and eight others although granted bail are currently standing trial over the kidnap and murder of one Sunny Ei­tche who was killed in Ologbo dukedom on June 7, 2020.