UGHELLI – Residents of the oil-rich city of Warri, Delta State, have commended members of The Master’s Place International Church, Effurun, near Warri for their philanthropic disposition towards the renovation of the Warri City Stadium. DAILY INDEPENDENT, who was attracted by the massive work going on at the stadium, reports that Warri City Stadium was under-going renovation this time around not by the efforts of the government of the day but by a church planning to hold crusade. Some residents of Warri who spoke to DAILY INDEPENDENT described the act as a very commendable one that other organizations should emulate, stressing that government alone cannot meet the aspirations of the citizens. Russia/Ukraine Faceoff: UK Government Announces Visa Concessions… Bankers’ Assets Declaration: Reps Fume As MDAs, Shun… One Mr Kingdom Osiobe who was sighted at the stadium, commended the church for the maintenance works, noting that they were surprised to know that a church planning for the crusade was responsible and not the government. On his part, Coach Jonathan (aka Gabi) also commended the church for the maintenance works, saying, “It’s a good thing that the church has done maintenance works on the stadium because Government must not do it all”. It was learnt that The Master’s Place International Church in Effurun is responsible for the maintenance works here at the Warri City Stadium ahead of its “Rain of Miracles (ROM)” crusade tagged, “Total Change of Story”. “The crusade will be hosted by Pastor Korede and Esther Komaiya of The Master’s Place International Church on Sunday, February 27th, 2022 by 8am.” Engr. M. Emmanuel, a site engineer who was sighted supervising the level of works at the Warri City Stadium confirmed the maintenance works being carried out by the church in the Stadium. POLL He noted that the church has painted and given the stadium a facelift because of the excellence of the founder of The Master’s Place International Church, Pastor Korede Komaiya. He said, “We cannot be here and use the stadium like that. We needed to give life to the stadium and that’s the level of renovation you’re seeing. Here we are doing painting, we are roofing the stadium. We are also clearing. “We have also fixed the roof. We have fixed the Air-conditioners, we have fixed the VIP lounge, everything is now having a semblance of life because we give life wherever we go to.”Rain of Miracles” programme is a city crusade for Warri City.” According to Engr. Emmanuel, “By God’s grace, we shall be having over 10,000 people here. We shall be handing over to God, over 10,000 souls. We must win Warri for Christ.” He pointed out that there will be free shopping on the same day immediately after the service stressing that there will be a market where people can buy things without stress all because of the love Pastor Korede and Esther Komaya have for the people of Warri. Fuel Scarcity: Bayelsa Launches Special Team On Petroleum… Boris Johnson Orders Asset Freeze For All Russian Banks He added that gospel artists such as Chioma Jesus, Jaga, Olaoga and others will also Minister in songs during the programme. He enjoined the people of Warri and its environs to come en masse and attend the “Rain of Miracles” programme.