Managing Director and CEO of Teczo Real Estate, Ejiobi Charles Chibuike, popularly known asObaego, has revealed that the real estate business ticks-off the perfect boxes for him even though it comes with its own difficulties and challenges. “For me, the real estate business has been a good career option, though it comes with its own difficulties and challenges, because it is quite competitive and requires capital injection, but the good side of it is that the sector is always busy as humans’ need for residential apartments, office and other buildings keep rising”, said Obasego. Obaego is a silent achiever whom his accomplishments spread across multiple fields of human endeavor. Aside being a real estate broker, the serial entrepreneur is the CEO of Teczo Autos and a Forex trading entity. “So presently, I am the Managing Director and CEO of three different companies, namely Teczo Real Estate, Teczo Autos and Teczo Forex Bureau.”said Obasego. Obaego is someone who considers spreading his investment as the key to surviving in the harsh business environment. And so far, he confessed never to have regretted his belief. “When I set out to become an entrepreneur, I did not limit myself to the kind of business I would do or the number of business entities I would run”, said Obasego. Obaego further disclosed that when he decided in June 2019 to become an entrepreneur, he wasn’t driven by momentary gains but to build a lasting environment for his businesses which the real estate industry stood as his most preferred choice. “When I set out to become an entrepreneur two years ago, I wasn’t after a business that will bring quick money, rather I wanted to go into a business area where I can look forward to long term profitability. And after thorough research, the property business stood out clearly as one of the best options”, said Obasego. POLL Obaego, aside business, is a philanthropist who considers the welfare of the people as part of his business’s mission statement, adding that, “As a business person, the welfare of my people comes first. That is why every Sunday, I identify and support the less privileged, especially widows, by providing for their wellbeing”. Obaego, whose real name is Ejiobi Charles Chibuike, advised aspiring entrepreneurs who may be willing to delve into the property sector about the importance of integrity and patience. “Wth over two years experience in the property industry, I have learned that the quickest or fastest way to kill your business is to try to cut corners. Once trust is tampered, it will be difficult for your business to flourish.” Continuing, Obasego said, “To sustain your integrity, be open to clients and ensure the property you’re advertising are made of quality materials. Give accurate description and ensure all the necessary documents are ready to avoid any delay that could lead to argument. These are all important indicators that clients and customers look out for.” On how he has been able to juggle three businesses in two years, the 29-year-old said: “I am not afraid of competition, so I run my businesses with a combination of good customer service, a strong online presence and competitive pricing. Also, my wealth of knowledge traveling from country to country has contributed immensely to correct any wrong.” Obaego said.