LAGOS – In the countdown to the Carabao Cup final this weekend, the pressure is on for Chelsea and Liverpool, as football fans await one of the most exciting clashes of the season. Showmax Pro subscribers across the African continent will witness the two teams go head to head in the knockout competition final on Sunday, February 27, 2022, streaming live at 5:30 pm on Showmax Pro, courtesy of SuperSport. This will be the first final that will not feature Manchester City since 2017. Will Liverpool make history by surpassing City and securing a record ninth win, or will Chelsea come back strong for a sixth title? This Sunday, all will be revealed when the two meet at Wembley Stadium in London. Carabo Cup Final: Liverpool, Chelsea Go Live On DStv, GOtv Chelsea Beat Spurs On Penalties To Reach Carabao Cup Final Chelsea beat Tottenham 3-0 on aggregate over two semifinal legs, while Liverpool secured their spot in the final after beating Arsenal 2-0 on aggregate. The last time Chelsea played Liverpool in the EFL Cup final was in 2005, where the Blues won 3-2.  Within a year of being appointed, Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel has led Chelsea to the finals of the UEFA Champions League (UCL), FA Cup, Club World Cup and now the Carabao Cup. Tuchel has driven Chelsea to concede an average of 0.72 goals per league game (31 in 43 games), fewer than any other English Premier League (EPL) side. POLL Fans can also watch some of their favourite players and Showmax Pro football regulars such as Mo Salah, Sadio Mane, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Mason Mount, Hakim Ziyech, Romelu Lukaku and more. Subscribers can live stream the latest seasons of the English Premier League, LaLiga, Serie A, UEFA Europa and UEFA Conference leagues, as well as FIFA World Cup qualifiers and more. Showmax Pro also offers a wide range of other live sports events, including athletics, professional boxing, and the world’s biggest marathons. Visit showmax.com to learn more, or subscribe to Showmax Pro for as low as N3,200.