ABUJA  – Jedidiah International Limited has explained how the Federal Capital Territory Minister, Muhammad Bello, breached the FCT master plan when it allotted a recreation park/ green area for the construction of a filling station, according to some court documents. Jedidiah instituted a legal action against Danu Investment Ltd., the beneficiary of the alleged allotment and the FCT Minister before a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, for allegedly allocating. According to the document, the company sought an order of the court directing the minister and the FCDA to adhere to the Abuja Master Plan, and to protect the area designated as green areas in the masterplan from being used for another purpose. We Will Push MDAs To Deliver N3trn By Year Ending – Senate Abuja Showbiz: Women Reality Show Debuts In Nigeria In an originating summons filed by its lawyer, Emmanuel Adedeji of Adedeji Harwood and Co, the claimant is seeking a declaration that the allocation of the recreation park known as Park No 1193, Cadastral Zone A01, Garki, Abuja, is in breach of Regulation 8 of the FCT Land Use Regulation, 2004, CAP L5, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, FCT Change of Land Use and Residential Density Regulations, 2007, and is therefore, ultra vires. The firm in suit no CV/1094/2021 is also praying for an order directing the minister to revoke the right of occupancy granted to the first defendant (Danu Investment Ltd.) dated June 25, 2009 in respect of the park. An Administrative official to the claimant, Abdul Oshiogwe, in an affidavit in support of the originating summons, said Jedidiah International was granted a lease approval for the park in 2009 by the FCT minister and the FCDA, after fulfilling all the conditions of lease approval. A copy of the lease approval, receipt for N3.9 million processing fee paid by the claimant as ground rent was attached and marked exhibit ‘A.’ The deponent further said the claimant subsequently produced detailed designs and drawings for the park and submitted same to the FCT Department of Park and Recreation for vetting and approval, which reportedly forwarded same to the Department of Development Control for approval. POLL The affidavit read: “That the Department of Development Control gave the claimant a bill of N1, 322, 691.60 as settlement of building fees. The settlement of building plan fee is herein attached and marked exhibit C. “That upon payment of the building plan fee, the Department of Development Control granted a building plan approval to the claimant to construct buildings on the park. That sometimes in 2015, the claimant was clearing the grass on the park when it was informed that the land has been converted to a commercial area.”