DAMATURU – The Academic Staff Union of Federal University Gashua (ASUU-FUGA) held a special congress today Friday, one item agenda of the congress was called at the instance of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the Union to mobilize members and sensitize the public on the update of the dispute between the Federal Government and ASUU over unresolved issues. It could be recalled that ASUU embarked on industrial action from March to December 2020 to Press home issues contained in the 2009 agreement signed between the Union and the Federal Government as well as the 2017 Memorandum of Action. In a press statement jointly signed by the Chairperson of ASUU-FUGA, Melemi Abatcha and Nongonan Hyacinth Apya Secretary said that “In the interest of our students, the nation and to honor the plea of some prominent Nigerians, the Union suspended the strike on 23rd, December 2020, with the belief that the government would be responsible and honest enough to fulfill her part of the agreement after signing the 2020 memorandum of action”. 2009 ASUU-FG Deal: AAUA Lecturers Threaten Strike Borno Donates N115m To Yobe Education Appeal Fund Raising As… “Congress observed with dismay that more than a year after that patriotic gesture by ASUU to suspend the nine months strike, the Federal Government is still foot-dragging in the fulfillment of most of the issues contained in the agreement. The main contending issues are implementation of the Renegotiated condition of service for Academic Staff”. “Despite the fact the renegotiation team had completed their assignment since April 2021; the government is still foot-dragging on the signing and subsequent implementation of the document which contains the conditions of service for Academic Staff of Nigerian public universities”. On the Arrears of Earned Academic Allowances (EAA) they revealed that “The Government is yet to mainstream the E.A.A as contained in the 2020 MOA which was to take effect from 1st January 2021. Also the remaining two tranches of the arrears which government promised to pay in May and November of 2021 are still outstanding University Transparency And Accountability Solution (UTAS) Payment Platform”. “The government is still foot-dragging on the deployment of UTAS (University Transparency and Accountability Solution), a home grown payment platform developed by our union in place of the corruption ridden IPPIS which was rejected by the union. Despite the fact that it has excellently passed the integrity test by NITDA, the government has refused to deploy the platform for the payment of salaries of Academic Staff”. “ASUU FUGA therefore, appeals to well-meaning Nigerians, stakeholders and members of the public to prevail on the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency fulfill its part of the agreement and attend to these issues to avert any further disruption of academic activities and for a better education system and society”.