LAGOS – Although he has not openly declared interest in running for the highest political office in the country in 2023, several groups have in the past few weeks, been clamouring for Godwin Emefiele, Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to declare interest in the race, saying the country is at a point technocrats need to take over the reins of power and steer it out of its present predicament. Few days ago, a  political group, The Green Alliance (TGA) Movement,  launched a Presidential Campaign initiative to canvass Emefiele to run for the office of the President of Nigeria in 2023 general polls in order to set the country on the rebirth of development. The supporters, who are mainly youths spotted white T-Shirts inscribed with MEFFY 2023 press home their demand at the venue held in Adeniran Ogunsanya, Surulere Local Government Area, LGA, Lagos where they demanded that Emefiele is the right man to succeed President Buhari in 2023. 2023 Election: Outcome Of PDP Presidential Primaries Will Shock… Why I Won’t Sign Electoral Act Bill If I Were Buhari – Sagay Speaking on the occasion, the Convener of the group, Wale Fapohunda, noted that since Emefiele’s appointment as the governor of the CBN, he has spent his energy in building a resilient financial system that can serve the growth and development needs of the Nigerian economy. According to Fapohunda: “A typical example of this was seen during his first term, he supervised an interventionist currency policy at the behest of the presidency, propping up the Nigerian Naira by pumping billions of dollars into the foreign exchange market”. After setting the pace, several groups across the country have also come out to declare support for Emefiele. The corporate Nigeria seems to have picked on him and a large section of the political class is also falling in line with this. Amidst the clamour for Igbo presidency, Emefiele is being projected as a bridge being from Igbo speaking part of Delta State with the prospects that the Igbo in the Southeast and the people of the South-South would easily identify with him.  They also believed that the South West will identify with him given the fact that he was born in Lagos, had his primary and secondary education in Lagos. According to these groups, it was remarkable that even if he were appointed by a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration under former president Goodluck Jonathan,  the succeeding APC government led by President Muhammadu Buhari not only found him fit enough but also went on to make him the first CBN governor in the Fourth Republic to win a second term. POLL Observe Emefiele’s successes at Zenith Bank, noting that the bank under him achieved a hundred billion naira after tax profit under his management in 2012. “Since he was appointed the governor of the CBN he has spent his energy in building a resilient financial system that can serve the growth and development needs of the Nigerian economy,” Wale Fapohunda said. “A typical example of this was seen during his first term, he supervised an interventionist currency policy at the behest of the presidency, propping up the Nigerian Naira by pumping billions of dollars into the foreign exchange market. He also introduced a multiple exchange rate regime to try to mask pressure on the Naira and avoid a series of devaluations.” He dismissed criticism from certain quarters that Dr. Emefiele had deviated from the core role of sustaining monetary policy saying that the development functions of the CBN as espoused by the CBN governor were well covered by the new CBN Act of 2007. “He has not declared, we are saying we want a round peg in a round hole. We have looked at all the aspirants, those who have declared and who are about to declare that the facts speak for itself.” [UPDATE] Lagos State PDP Congress: Diri Charges Delegates On… Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… Fapouhnda said that he believed that Emefiele would respond to the call to enter the 2023 contest given his love for Nigeria and if not, he would be compelled to do so. He also dismissed insinuations from newsmen that Emefiele lacks a political structure pointing out that he would be relying on God to make him president in 2023. While noting that Dr. Emefiele is a completely detribalised man, he added “His achievements are numerous in the CBN. He is a man that has been ordained for this time.” Also, Ideas Nigeria Movement (INM), a body made up of Nigerians driven by the tripodal values of nationalism, innovation and a quest to build capacity in leadership last week outlined several factors why it is pushing for Emefiele to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The group of professionals, business people and Nigerians from diverse ethnic divides whose sole desire is to see a reborn Nigeria bound by the common cord of brotherhood, irrespective of tribe, tongue and religion, said among the known gladiators and even from among those who are yet to make up their mind, Emefiele is the best man for the job. In a statement issued by its Executive Secretary, Nadodo Abubakar, the group said: “Nigeria has been ruled by three categories of persons: The politicians, military and military-politicians. By our simple evaluation, none of these categories of persons has been outstanding or has offered the type of leadership needed to light the fire of patriotism, selflessness and productivity that is required to lift the fortunes of Nigerians. “None has provided the type of vision-driven and target-focused leadership that would help Nigerian youths unleash their creative talents, innovative energies and resourcefulness all of which make them excel overseas each time they have the opportunity,” the group said, adding that Emefiele is the right man to fill the void in good governance missing in Nigeria. The group mentioned metrics such as economic management, curtailing insecurity, fighting corruption and promoting innovation as the immediate needs of the nation, positing that Emefiele, given the courage and vision he demonstrated at CBN, would offer 21st century leadership that would guide Nigeria out of her current quagmire. On economy, the group said: “Through the multi-sectoral interventions by CBN under his watch, Nigeria has improved her non-oil export, increased local production and yield in agriculture, empowered young Nigerians to play active roles in the agro-business value chain. Deploying the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, ABP alone, CBN has created over 12 million jobs in agriculture, and the number is still growing. The group faulted those who blame Emefiele for the fall of the naira at the forex market, saying since the advent of the IMF-led Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) in 1986, and the introduction of the Second Tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM), the Naira has been on a one-way free fall from parity to the US Dollar in 1984 to over N500/USD today. “What past CBN governors did in their time was to pump huge volumes of dollars into the market to defend Naira. Such disingenuous economics, albeit a knee jerk approach rather than help to grow the economy, left a big gash in the national treasury and created emergency forex billionaires, who turned forex market into a criminal enterprise. “But for Emefiele’s courage to stop non-funding of importation of over 40 items, a tough decision on the basis of which he became a subject of blackmail, Nigeria would have been wasting scarce forex to import rice, wheat and other farm produce all of which are today being produced in commercial quantity in Nigeria. “Through the ABP, Nigeria achieved a significant reduction in the country’s rice import bill from $1.05 billion annually prior to November 2015, to the current figure of $18.50 million, annually,” the statement said. INM said going by the testimony of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Emefiele is the “Best CBN Governor ever and the Best Friend of the Nigerian Farmer.” The statement continues: “Emefiele’s mastery of sound economic management in moments of adversity helped Nigeria to exit recession twice, faster than predicted, at a time other oil-producing economies namely – Russia, Angola, Brunei, Kuwait – were mired in the pit of recession for longer periods. “His master class performance in the containment of Covid-19 pandemic through championing the creation of the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), a private-sector driven initiative that raised funds to further the fight against the spread of the pandemic earned Nigeria a resounding commendation from the IMF in its latest Article IV Consultation released this month.” Another group, The Mass Interest Project, also  called Emefiele to throw his heart in the ring and contest the 2023 presidential election.In a statement, titled” The Charge 2023” the group argued that the country’s next president should be an experienced entrepreneur and or a business leader, adding that the person the cap best fits to take over the mantle of leadership in the country is no other than the CBN governor. Reacting to the calls for him to contest the 2023 presidential election, Emefiele who said it is the prerogative of President Buhari  to map out his succession plan, maintained that he would leave his fate firmly in the hands of God.