LAGOS – The Lagos Zone of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), on Tuesday, again appealed to all Nigerians to prevail on the Federal Government to arrest the brewing restive situation in the Nigerian University System. Speaking during the Congress, Coordinator, ASUU Lagos Zone, Dr. Adelaja Odukoya said intervention by genuinely progressive individuals and groups will avert further degeneration of the lingering crisis. The Congress had in attendance members from the zone that comprise the host, University of Lagos (Unilag), Lagos State University (LASU), Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED) and the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) NUC Gives Nod For Conversion Of LASPOTECH To Lagos State… Delta Approve 1, 500 Recruitment Slots for Teachers At the end of a sensation walk around the Akoka main campus of UNILAG, Dr. Adelaja who addressed the media explained that considered it germane to address Nigerians and express the concerns of the Union about the refusal of the Federal Government to sign and implement the Renegotiated 2009 FGN/ASUU Agreement. He said other concerns of the union are the adoption of the University Transparency and AccountabilitySolution (UTAS), funding of State Universities, non-payment of withheld salaries, checkoffs andpromotion arrears, saying that concerted efforts at getting Government to address these issues were without satisfactory and meaningful outcomes. He said: “The 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement provides for a periodic review after every three years. The review of the agreement should have been undertaken in 2012, 2015 2018 and subsequently in 2021. However, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) went into an MOA with our Union (ASUU) in December 2020 after a 9-month strike the Government forced on our Union over funding of the Universities; Universities Autonomy; Conditions of Service and other miscellaneous issues confronting the Nigerian University system.” “The renegotiation, which was deliberately frustrated and delayed by Dr Wale Babalakin was billedto have been concluded about four years ago. However, … since the conclusion of the renegotiation 9 months ago, the Federal Government is yet to sign and implement the renegotiated agreement.” “Consequently, our members remain on the same salaries since 2009 despite the deplorable economic conditions of the country, hyperinflation and devaluation of the Naira. Our members are frustrated and increasingly agitated by the Government’s apparent reluctance and foot-dragging on this important issue of welfare and existential condition.” POLL “It is sad and shameful that the Government has constituted itself to the major saboteur as it concerns the welfare of Nigerian academics. “Nigerians should prevail on the Government to immediate change for this uncaring and lackadaisical attitude and do the needful to forestall the impending consequences of the impending industrial dispute the Government is sadly forcing Nigerian academics to embark on.” Dr. Adelaja affirmed that the union is not a monger of a strike just as it dislikes embarking on strike action except with it becomes inevitable to Government intransigence.” Speaking on the union’s position as it relates to the deployment of University Transparency Accountability Solutions (UTAS), the union said the proposed Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) is an ill-wind that will blow the Nigerian University System no good. “Therefore, we are not surprised with the Auditor General’s report that gave damning revelations about the financial sleaze and corruption that has bedeviled IPPIS as a payment system.” “The deliberate refusal of Government to adopt UTAS as a payment platform in the UniversitySystem further exposed the lip service that our government pays to the war against corruption.” Private: BREAKING: Makinde Set To Rename LAUTECH As LAU We Will Resist Attempt By FG To Turn Intellectuals To Slaves… Government should, therefore, embrace ASUU’s innovation and deployment of a more robust system of human resource management and compensation which has been designed to address the peculiarities of our University System and end inappropriate recruitments in the system. “It is against this backdrop that, our Union calls on the Federal Government to immediately approve the deployment of UTAS as a payment platform in our Universities if we expect improvement in the operation and conditions of our ivory towers.” Besides, the union frowned against the unbridled establishment of universities by the state government for political gains and as constituencies projects, saying funding and infrastructural decay in state-owned Universities are yet to get the desired attention from owner governments and visitors to those Universities. He lamented that the issue of irregular or non-payment of salaries and subventions in state universities are of great concern to the union and expressed worries that much as the Visitors to State Universities have deliberately refused to fund existing Universities, they keep on establishing new ones. He submitted that the proliferation has led to the decayed infrastructural facilities, withholding of salaries of Academic Staff for a period ranging from three to eight months and no research grants, among others. Adelaja said the refusal by successive governments to fully address issues raised by the union to make the university system more vibrant has made the genuine transformation, driven by highly motivated human capital, in the education sector difficult. “We are perplexed and disappointed that Federal and State Governments are not responding to our consistent appeals for a reason to bring about . Embarking on strike is not our character nor is it our nature, however, our union should not be pushed to the wall.” “ASUU wants to inform Nigerians that our members can no longer tolerate a situation where they work like elephants and eat like ants. This sensitization is therefore, intended to bring to the public knowledge the refusal of Government to honour the agreement freely entered into with our Union in December 2020 before the strike was suspended. “Accordingly, Nigerians should hold Government responsible if another industrial action hits our Universities,” the union said.