Interim Manchester United manager Ralf Rangnick has confirmed that it is “obvious” that the club must reduce the average age of their attacking options amid Cristiano Ronaldo’s and Edinson Cavani’s presences. Ronaldo, who returned to United from Juventus last August, turned 37 last weekend whilst Cavani, who is poised to leave Old Trafford this forthcoming summer, turns 35 on Monday. Despite the outstanding careers they have both enjoyed, United, with respect, cannot continue with a strike paring with a combined age of 72 for much longer. They have got to bring that age bracket down and the club is set to prioritise the signing of a much younger striker this coming summer. Manchester United ‘Agree £12m Deal To Sell Andreas Pereira Manchester United Striker Accused Of Assault Speaking on Friday, Rangnick said: “This is obvious. Edinson’s contract is running out in the summer and the club needs the best possible centre forward. This is an obvious one. I think everyone is aware of that.” Borussia Dortmund star Erling Haaland has long since been identified as United’s dream signing to strengthen their attacking department, but the level of competition for his signature could make it difficult for the Reds to come out on top. Haaland is wanted by a plethora of big-name clubs, including the likes of Manchester City and Real Madrid, meaning a huge battle is set to ignite this summer for the striker, whose €75million release clause becomes active in a few months’ time. With that in mind, MEN Sport has picked out three alternative options that United could turn to in a bid to strengthen their attacking options with a younger face than what currently leads the line. POLL He may be seven years older than Haaland, but Kane is nine years younger Ronaldo and seven years Cavani’s junior, meaning he would instantly reduce the average age. Although he has not been in such blistering form this season as he has in recent years, Kane has established himself as one of the best strikers in the world in recent years, for both club and country. A natural predator inside the penalty area, Kane, if supplied, will score goals. That cannot be denied. His track record speaks for itself and United are in need of finding someone who can score 20-30 goals a season, even though Ronaldo could still reach 20 and beyond this season with the time that is left. Kane, of course, would not be a cheap addition. However, if United were to install Mauricio Pochettino as their new manager it could help their case and chances of signing him. Man-United Out Of Haaland Running As Real Madrid Emerge As… Pogba Is Obviously Miserable At Manchester United – Petit Recently linked with a move to United in the national media, Real Sociedad striker Isak is a player with huge levels of potential and promise. Aged just 22, the Sweden international took La Liga by storm last season, averaging a goal every two games, scoring 17 times in 34 appearances. This season, so far, he has not been quite as productive in the final third, scoring eight times in 27 games in all competitions, but his potential cannot be ignored. He was handed the responsibility of leading Sweden’s forward-line at last summer’s European Championship and earned plenty of plaudits, helping the Swede’s reach the round-of-16, claiming two assists along the way. In direct comparison with Haaland, Isak’s record in front of goal is dwarfed by the Dortmund man. However, the youngster has sacks of potential, making him one of the most highly sought-after strikers in European football. Staying in La Liga, Atletico Madrid ace Felix is another player with huge potential bursting at the seam. Like Isak, the Portuguese star is aged just 22-years-old and has already been the subject of a big-money move from Benfica to Atletico in 2019, joining the Spanish giants for a whopping £113million. With that in mind, it is clear that Felix is held in very high regard and his potential is sky-high. Admittedly, his record in front of goal at Atletico, to date, has not been dazzling so far, scoring 22 goals in 97 games. However, there is still plenty of excitement surrounding the Portuguese ace. Again, however, he would not come cheaply, especially when he is tied down to a long-term contract until 2026.