Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, on Saturday commended his Bayelsa State counterpart, Douye Diri, for his fantastic performance in office two years into his administration. Wike spoke in Yenagoa while inaugurating projects at the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences of the Bayelsa Medical University (BMU) in the state capital. He mocked some governors, particularly in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), who had been in office for almost eight years without tangible things to show, stressing that Diri had achieved more than them in just two years. Wike Charges Plateau PDP Leaders On Unity 2023: Wike Lauds Makarfi For Saving PDP From Destruction Wike gave Diri a pat on the back for putting in place road infrastructure and other meaningful projects that would impact positively on the lives of the people. The Rivers governor also lauded the Diri administration on the projects at the BMU, which include lecture halls and a pathology laboratory, saying the requirements for such a facility cost billions of naira. He said his administration would support the building of the university’s teaching hospital with the sum of N500 million as the institution was strategic in serving the people of both Bayelsa and Rivers states. Wike said, “Whatever problems we have we would resolve them amicably. We need to support one another as people of the Niger Delta. We need to be our brother’s keeper. “Just two years in office, Governor Diri has performed exceptionally well compared to some governors on the other side that had done almost eight years. POLL “It is when you have something to show that you invite people to come. Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party is telling people from Sokoto in the North and people in the South South, South East and South West to come and see what his government has done. “That is why when God gives you the privilege and opportunity to serve, you need to thank God. While PDP governors are busy executing and inaugurating projects, others are giving excuses. Till now, Nigerians do not understand the modus operandi of the ruling party because everyday they find excuse not to sign the amended Electoral Act. “After all that the National Assembly has done, Buhari keeps refusing to sign the amended Act. I know it is because they are afraid of the provision on electronic transmission of election results in the Act. Mark my words, Buhari won’t still sign the amended Electoral Act.” Speaking, Governor Diri said his administration was building on the vision of his predecessors in the late Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, who initially proposed a 500-bed hospital, and Senator Seriake Dickson, who later converted it to a medical institution. He said BMU was one of the best medical facilities in the country with a crop of distinguished medical professionals. Wike Killing Genuine Businesses In Rivers -Dakuku Peterside Convention: APC Governors In Crucial Meeting On the university’s teaching hospital, the governor directed the Commissioners for Health, Education and Finance to ensure completion of the project for it to become functional this year. In his welcome address, the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Professor Ebitimitula Etebu, said the institution was established in 2018 and approved by the National Universities Commission to commence academic work in the 2019-2020 academic session.