IBADAN – The Oyo State Police Command have disclosed that it have made arrest of some suspects in connection with the Friday clash between members of Park Management System (PMS) and a gang known as ‘Federal Boys’ at Oremeji Agugu area of Ibadan. The Command Public Relations Officer (PPRO) SP Adewale Osifeso, who made the disclosure on Sunday said further investigation has commenced to apprehend others involved who are still at large. It will be recalled that some PMS members and Federal Boys on Friday engaged in a battle of supremacy leading to the death of one PMS members simply identified as Afiz Agate, many sustained various degree injuries while properties worth millions of naira were damaged. Agugu Oremeji Clash: One Dead, Hoodlums Arrested, Oyo Police… Gunmen Kill 4 Policemen In Enugu SP Osifeso noted that the State Police Command respond upon the strength of a distress call from members of the public to the Police and have been able to restore normalcy to the area. According to him, “Cult related violence broke out at the early hours of Friday 11/02/2022 between some hoodlums around Oremeji Area, Ibadan. “Upon the strength of a distress call received by operatives of the Oyo State Police Command, deployments of operational and tactical assets were swiftly executed. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the fracas was as result of claims for supremacy among the hoodlums and in the process a gang member lost his life with others injured while motorcycles and vehicles were vandalized. “Meanwhile, Normalcy has returned to the area as it remains under close monitoring and surveillance with high visibility policing and intensive patrols. POLL “Arrests have been made and efforts are ongoing to break the criminal network for the apprehension of other criminal elements within and outside the jurisdiction. “Further developments would be communicated accordingly, please”. He however, urged parents and guardians to call their wards to order stressing that no act of lawlessness of any form will be condoned and whoever is apprehended as being part of the fracas will be made to face the full wrath of the law.