ABUJA – No fewer than 26 Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) are currently mobilising for protest to compel President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021. The national protest has been slated for February 22. Among some of the prominent CSOs spoiling for protest include Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, Yiaga Africa, Partners for Electoral Reform (PER), International Press Centre, Institute for Media and Society, Nigerian Women Trust Fund, The Albino Foundation, Centre for Citizens with Disability, Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), Labour Civil Society Coalition (LASCO), Transition Monitoring Group, CLEEN Foundation, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Nigeria Network of Non-Governmental Organizations (NNNGO) among others. Police Not To Blame For Fatal Accident In Ihiala -Anambra CP Team GB Loses Olympic 4×100m Silver Medal To Doping The Coalition of CSOs are worried that the delay in granting presidential assent to the Electoral Bill, 2022 may create legal uncertainties that will threaten the integrity of the off-cycle elections in Ekiti, Osun, including the 2023 general election, which is only 366 days away. They are also wondering why the President, despite giving assurance that he would sign once the direct primary clause is expunged from the Bill is still withholding his assent even after the National Assembly has complied with his directive. In a statement on Saturday, they submitted, “aware that on the 31st January 2022, the National Assembly transmitted the Electoral Bill 2022 to the President for assent after expeditiously reworking the bill to meet the President’s expectations. Also, aware the bill allows electronic transmission of results, strengthens INEC’s financial independence and empower the commission to reject falsified election results. “Further aware, the bill, when signed, requires INEC to issue Notice of Election not later than 360 days before the day appointed for an election. Therefore, the President has to give assent to the bill on or before 22nd February 2022 if the dates announced for the 2023 elections are to be maintained. “The civil society community resolves to declare Tuesday, 22nd February 2022, as the National Day of Protest to demand immediate assent to the bill. Civil society networks will organize peaceful public direct-action activities to further the demand to assent the bill. POLL “We urge citizens across the nation to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to act on this matter of urgent national importance.”