The consultation visits to delegates in the 25 LGAs of Delta State by a PDP governorship aspirant, Olorogun David Edevbie and his campaign team continued on the 22nd and 23rd of Feb., 2022, with visits to Warri North, Okpe, Isoko North and Isoko South LGAs. With visits to the four Local Govt Areas this week, Olorogun Edevbie has concluded his first round of consultations with the PDP delegates in all 16 LGAs in Delta Central and Delta South Senatorial Districts, having earlier visited delegates in Ughelli North, Ughelli South, Burutu, Uvwie, Ethiope East, Warri South-West, Warri South, Udu, Bomadi, Patani, Sapele and Ethiope West, while delegates in LGAs in Delta North will soon be visited. The delegates warmly received Olorogun David Edevbie and his campaign team in Warri North led by the PDP Chairman, Dr Isaac Wilkie, the Leader of the Legislative Arm, Hon. Urumatsoma Johnbull, as well as the Chairman of the Wards Chairmen, Mr Kingsley Ogio. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine Olorogun David Edevbie promised to complete the Ugbenu-Koko Road dualisation project as a matter of priority, revive the moribund Koko Port and attract industries to Koko to boost the area’s economy. He noted the desire of the people for an institution of higher learning in Warri North and promised to attend to it. At the same time, he assured women and youths of more equitable representation in appointments into his Cabinet. Responding on behalf of the delegates, the Warri North PDP Chairman, Dr Isaac Wilkie, said the antecedents of Olorogun Edevbie qualified him to be Governor and prayed God to guide the delegates by casting their votes for the best aspirant at the primaries. In their unique and customary prayer method at public functions, the two major ethnic groups in Warri North prayed for Olorogun David Edevbie in Itsekiri and Ijaw languages, indicating a bond of unity and love among them. Next was Okpe LGA, where the Delta Central Coordinator of ODECO, Crown Prince Godwin Ejinyere and his group welcomed Olorogun Edevbie and his team at Oha junction, from where they proceeded to his residence at Orerokpe for a brief reception. At Udogun Okpe Hall, Orerokpe, the LGA PDP Chairman, Chief Efe Uko, Leader of the Legislative Arm, Hon. Aragbata Obakpororo Peter, the Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Comrade Elder Collins Ubini, received Olorogun Edevbie and his entourage with the Okpe LGA delegates. Okakuro Efe Uko thanked Olorogun Edevbie for meeting with the delegates personally instead of consulting them through their leaders. He emphasised that Olorogun Edevbie has the capacity, knowledge and cognate experience to be elected Governor, therefore, he cannot be ruled out. He described him as a man capable of stepping into the large shoes of the former Governors, Chief James Ibori and Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, and the incumbent, Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa. POLL According to Efe Uko, “all the Urhobo contestants are our people and our eyes can recognise from a distance the food that will satisfy us.” “You are a party loyalist, and your name is a household name. We know you are de-tribalised. We know you will not be learning on the job but will hit the ground running after swearing-in because you have the experience. Let the best do it,” Chief Efe Uko posited. Chief Uko commended Olorogun Edevbie for his courage and prayed Okpe LGA delegates to vote for him in all elections while appealing to him not to forget them when he eventually emerges as the Governor of Delta State. He also charged Olorogun Edevbie to better the lots of the PDP structure in Okpe LGA to put smiles on the faces of PDP officials and faithful at all levels in the area. Chief Efe Uko strongly advised Olorogun David Edevbie to ignore Asaba political jobbers who meander to get all the political appointments at the expense of delegates and Party faithful who do all the work at the Wards, canvassing and actually voting during elections. Earlier, Olorogun David Edevbie told the Okpe LGA delegates that he was in the governorship race to take Okpe to the next development level. He expressed confidence that Okpe LGA delegates would vote for him, even though two of their sons are also PDP governorship aspirants. Otor-Igho Town in Isoko North LGA was the next port of call where the PDP Chairman, Hon. Godwin Ogorugba, the Leader of the Legislative Arm, Hon. Francis Udubra, and Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Mr Omosioni Onoyiwita, led the delegates to receive Olorogun David Edevbie and his campaign team. Hon. Ogorugba thanked Olorogun David Edevbie for having the courage to contest for governorship a second time, asserting that his competence was not in doubt. He gave the assurance that in taking their decision on who to vote for at the primaries, Olorogun Edevbie, whose grandmother is from Iyede in Isoko North, would undoubtedly be remembered as one of their own. He described Olorogun Edevbie as a credible and an effective finance and time manager and congratulated him for being the first among the three aspirants from Delta Central selected by DC-23. He advised the three times Finance Commissioner of Finance not to listen to gossip or blackmail concerning his team members so as not to derail his mission. He appealed to Olorogun Edevbie to consider the delegates in Isoko North LGA when constituting his Cabinet in 2023. NATO Leaders Agree To Bolster Eastern Forces After Invasion Biden Nominates 1st Black Woman To Supreme Court For his part, Olorogun Edevbie had earlier thanked the Isoko North delegates for their unwavering support and appealed to them to give their total votes to him in the coming primaries. He promised to ensure the security of lives and property in Delta State by partnering with the Federal Government to improve the security architecture of the State and other stakeholders to improve funding through the Security Trust Fund and further attract investors to the State to locate in Isoko land. After a brief reception at Ozoro, courtesy of the Coordinator of ODECO in Isoko North LGA, Odion Berkeley Asiafa, Olorogun Edevbie and his team went to Oleh in Isoko South LGA and were received by the delegates led by the PDP Chairman, Odion Godspower Obaro, the Leader of the Legislative Arm, Hon. Othuke Arovah, and Chairman of Wards Chairmen, Chief Christopher Ukulubu. Chief Obaro described Olorogun David Edevbie as a system and time conscious person with the capacity, ability and knowledge to deliver on his mandate, stating that Olorogun Edevbie is the priority aspirant for Isoko South. He then advised the University of Lagos graduate of Economics to remain focused before and after his swearing-in ceremony in 2023. In a brief remark on his mission, Olorogun David Edevbie promised to upgrade the College of Engineering at Oleh Campus of Delta State University, DELSU, with befitting infrastructure and work for the establishment of industries to create a pipeline for absorbing its graduates, as it is done overseas, to reduce unemployment among the youths of Isoko land. He sought their votes at the PDP primaries and the general elections, promising to appoint his Cabinet members from Isoko South delegates in 2023. Meanwhile, the Director-General of Olorogun David Edevbie Campaign Organization, Chief Clement Ofuani, who introduced Olorogun David Edevbie to the delegates in all the LGAs visited, said it was crucial to engage the delegates because they determine who flies the flag of the PDP at the general elections. He said the awesome power to shape the future of Delta State lies in the hands of the delegates and charged them to wisely exercise their will by voting for Olorogun David Edevbie, who has all it takes to modernise, industrialise and grow the economy of Delta State, for the benefit of the present and future generations. Chief Ofuani asserted that the well-educated, experienced and sincere Olorogun David Edevbie facilitated the speedy approval of the Koko Free Trade Zone license when he, Edevbie, served as the Principal Secretary to the then President, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, at the Presidency in Abuja.