**Over 55 Bills, Memos Forwarded By Nigerians **Senators Advised To Painstakingly Study Public Inputs ABUJA – The National Assembly is set to consider the report of the joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives on the review of the 1999 constitution at the end of February.The Deputy President of the Senate and Co-Chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly on the Review of the 1999 Constitution, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, stated this Friday in Abuja at a joint retreat of the Committees of both Chambers on Constitution Amendment. Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… Conte Hints At Surprise Tottenham Role For Dejan Kulusevski Assuring that the report of the exercise would be presented to both legislative chambers for consideration at the end of the month, Senator Omo-Agege disclosed that consultants had recommended over 55 bills from hearings and memos submitted by the public. According to him, the committee’s work was hampered by the Covid-19 pandemic hampered forcing it to deliver a little further from its timeline. “I am aware that we have independently reviewed the consultants’ reports and recommendations by way of re-couching, making additional provisions, rejecting, and even introducing entirely new bills on account of various advocacies and agitations on some issues of overriding national concern. I believe that some of us will be seeing some of the Bills the first time. As such, it is incumbent on us to painstakingly consider them clause-by-clause. Let me reiterate, it will not be an easy task. “We have two working days in this retreat and I wish to encourage each and every one of us to give the work all the attention it deserves, especially as we have limited time to present the report and transmit to the State Houses of Assembly in line with our revised timeline and programme of activities of the National Assembly this year. I am sure we are committed to concluding this phase of the work within the timeline. “As we critically consider the bills in the Working Document before us in which the Secretariat has provided both the Senate and the House versions, let our debate, opinions and decisions on the intendment and the expressive clauses be guided by what is best for our people and national interest,” he stated. POLL Expressing delight at the progress made on the review of the constitution, Senator Omo-Agege added “I am therefore most delighted to see that we have progressed to the point where we can now jointly decide on the report to be presented to our colleagues for voting in plenary at the end of this month.” He commended his colleagues for their commitment, sacrifice and dogged determination in ensuring that the committee deliver on its mandate.