***As APC Embark On Protest Over Alleged Exclusion Of Candidates ENUGU – Personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigerian Army were seen in their numbers at different strategic point at Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) on Tuesday. The heavy presence of security personnel may not be unconnected with the allegation where All Progressive Congress (APC) has called for postponement of the election over exclusion of its candidates. OGD’s Driver Kills Police Officer Attached To The Former… Edo NUJ Warns Against Attack Of Members On Lawful Duties Our correspondent reports that the roads leading to ENSIEC office was blocked while security personnel were stationed in and out of the building to ensure adequate security of electoral materials Meanwhile the APC members led by the state Secretary, Robert Ngwu,embarked on protest to ENSIEC office over exclusion of their candidates in the LG election comming up on Wednesday. He called for postponement of the election saying it will be voided in court if ENSIEC goes ahead to conduct the election. The APC protesting members were seen carrying placards which reads “we demand for free election. ENSIEC is playing hide and seeek. We say no to exclusion, ENSIEC save Enugu state from political mess, ENSIEC is not for a particular party, No more business as usual etc. He said “we are angry as the 17 local Goverment candidates of APC were excluded from the list of election taking place on Wednesday. We have gone to court to seek for justice and we are still going to Federal high court for human right violation because the right to vote for and be voted for is a right POLL “We are here to state our grievances to let Enugu state people know that what they are doing is not right. How can they exclude the major political party in the state from a local Goverment election “This election will be voided because you cannot exclude major political party. It’s against the constitution and against electoral law to exclude a political party and they are still insisting in holding the election on Wednesday. Though we can’t do anything but to show our grievances to let the state know that what is going on is not right.This is a new APC and we are here to compete with the ruling party in the state “The list they published is not our list because the list we submitted to them was abandoned.We have professors running for councillors in APC. We have a retired DSS Director running for the chairmanship in Isi-Uzo local government. So, how could those people not qualify? They didn’t show us the list in the first place even though we submitted their names and that’s what is going on.” Addressing the protesters, Chairman of ENSIEC, Chief Mike Ajokwu said that the reason for publishing Ben Nwoye’s list was because he was the one the Commission had related with over the years “we published the list forwarded by the former chairman because we have being working with him” he said