As part of its efforts to ensure improved health services for all, Yobe State Contributory Health Care Management Agency (YSCHMA) parley with traditional, religious leaders and congregation preachers across the Yobe South senatorial district which comprises of four local government areas of Fika, Fune, Nangere and Potiskum. In his welcome address, Executive Secretary YSCHMA Dr Babagana Tijjani revealed that the stakeholders’ engagement meeting was organized in order to fast track the incorporation of the informal sector into the contributory health scheme. He added that as part of preparations to incorporate the informal sector into the State’s Contributory Health Scheme, the agency according to him has commenced a strategic stakeholders engagement meeting in the state for proper implementation. YSCHMA Engages Religious Leaders For Commencement of Informal… Yobe Restates Commitment To Enhance Standard Of Education The Executive Secretary also said that the programme will target self-employed groups such as farmers, artisans, drivers, marketers, traders, fish sellers and market women groups. Other groups of people to benefit from the informal programme he outlined are the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), tricycle riders, cattle breeders, vulcanisers, mechanics, tailoring and fashion design associations as well as Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) among others too numerous to mention. The gesture, he said, was part of a deliberate attempt to achieve universal health coverage in the state. He also said that the programme was designed to increase access to affordable and quality healthcare delivery to the people.Dr. Babagana Tijjani further commended Governor Mai Mala Buni for the support to the agency as well as the commitment to the health sector reform programme in the state. In his presentation, the Director Programmes YSCHMA, Dauda Sulayman said that right from the inception of the administration of Governor Mai Mala Buni, the state government has attached priority to the health sector and so many successes have been achieved through their agency’s services. This efforts according to him focuses on ensuring that people of the state have easy access to affordable and quality health care services to also help the state to achieve universal health coverage (UHC) in line with the health policy agenda of Yobe State. POLL In his remarks, the Chief Imam of Yobe Mosque and Islamic Centre, Sheikh Ustaz Hudu Muhammad Yusuf urged the clerics to assist YSCHMA in the sensitization exercise for effectiveness and proper implementation of the programme. The religious and community leaders interacted and shared ideas on how to engage in the provision of improved health services. Director Sharia, Mohammed Tela Gadaka gave the closing remarks and thanked the stakeholders for attending the meeting despite their numerous engagements.