The current Champions League winners have a shot at World title success as Chelsea face Palmeiras in the Club World Cup final, but they’ve been backed to retain their European crown as well. Chelsea face Palmeiras in the Club World Cup final on Saturday after Romelu Lukaku’s goal against Al-Hilal was enough to send the Blues through. Although the heavy favourites to win the competition, Chelsea were put through their paces against Al-Hilal, and it’s expected to be another tough test against the Copa Libertadores on Saturday too. Rudiger Contract Breakthrough Highlights Chelsea Stance On… Pochettino’s Dream Man Utd Line-Up With Kane Replacing… Chelsea qualified for the competition through their Champions League success back in May, and although they finished second in their group this time around, they’ve landed a rather favourable draw against French side Lille. The last team to retain the Champions League trophy was Real Madrid back in 2018, but before that it hadn’t been done since the 1990’s, but Chelsea legend Geremi believes that his former side will lift the European Cup once again. It was a stunning start to life at Chelsea for Thomas Tuchel as he led the Blues to their second ever crown in May after taking over from Frank Lampard in just five months earlier. They broke Manchester City hearts to lift the trophy, and now Tuchel could have a world title to add to his European success with Chelsea. However, the last time Chelsea qualified for the Club World Cup after winning their first Champions League in 2012, they lost the World final to Corinthians 1-0. POLL Therefore, Chelsea now have the opportunity to avenge their defeat a decade ago, and put things right against fellow Brazilian opposition. Tuchel’s side may return to England with another trophy, but they could be 16 points behind Premier League leaders City come the end of February. But Chelsea are still in every major competition, and they have the chance to beat Liverpool in the Carabao Cup final on February 27 to add to their growing collection. The main crown remains the Champions League though, and Geremi has backed the Blues to win the whole thing and retain their crown this season. Geremi exclusively told Express Sport as part of Three’s official launch of it’s 5G network at Chelsea: “Yes, yes this is what I wish and the squad that they have it is a squad to compete and I think they are still there [at the top]. Man City Need ‘Incredible’ Points Total To Win Title… UEFA On Verge Of 40% Leap In European Club TV Revenues “I think they’ve secured a good draw because they play against French teams, so I think it is possible, and they have Ngolo Kante, who knows these French teams very well.” Geremi highlighted Ngolo Kante’s importance in midfield, and the Frenchman was essential to Chelsea’s success in the competition last season. The Chelsea legend believes that Kante is the ‘biggest player in the world’, and thinks it could be him that leads the Blues to success once again, as he added: “Big, big player. “When you look at his stats everything is at the top and I think he is still getting better. He is taking more responsibility and you see the season he had last year, and this season also what he’s doing. “For me, the biggest player in the world right now, I can say that.” If things go Chelsea’s way, they could end February with two more trophies, and with the Blues still going strong in the FA Cup and the Champions League, there is the opportunity for another very successful year.