IBADAN – Three suspected fraudsters have been paraded in Ibadan by Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for defrauding unsuspected victims to the tune of two million, five hundred thousand naira (N2.5m). Briefing journalists at the Command Headquarters Agodi, Ibadan on Monday, the state Corps Commandant, CC Adaralewa Micheal urged members of the public to be very careful of the antics of fraudsters who are always looking for someone to dupe of their hard-earned money. The suspects Waheed Adekunle (Herbalist) aged 78, Muideen Akorede, aged 29 a self-acclaimed Muslim cleric and a bike man simply Identified as Soji were arrested and paraded following their involvements in a fraud of over N2m. Fuel Scarcity: NSCDC Arrests Two Sellers Of Adulterated Petrol… Two Officers Injured As NSCDC Arrests 10 Illegal Miners In… Adaralewa in his address said, “On 13th of February 2022 at Panseke area of Abeokuta Ogun State Muideen Akorede a resident of Odinjo area of Ibadan stopped one Mr. Oluwatosin and requested for assistance of one thousand naira (N1,000) in which Oluwatosin gave him. “Later the two exchanged their mobile number, after some days Akorede invited Oluwatosin to Ibadan where he was introduced to other members of his syndicates with the guise of offering him special prayer and cleansing. “Along the line Oluwatosin was introduced to Adewale Waheed a herbalist, Okadaman Soji, and others who are currently at large. “The suspects later conspired together and collected the sum of two million, five hundred thousand naira (N2.5m) from Oluwatosin through Access Bank account of Mr. Akorede Muideen and a GTB account bank belonging to one Mr. Abubakri Ibrahim under false pretence,” Adaralewa said. All the suspects in a separate interview with journalists over the development confessed to the crime. POLL Muideen Akorede said I was given the sum of N500,000 as his share of the money collected from Oluwatosin. He said we do spiritual cleansing for Tosin, he used to be my client, when he told me that he need something that will boost his business that was when I introduced him to a friend if mine, Abubakar Ibrahim who’s currently at large, and we bought Cow and a horse for him. The herbalist, Mr. also confessed to having collected the sum of forty-five naira (N45,000). He said, “I was given the sum of N45,000, I don’t know the exact amount collected from him(Oluwatosin). Exhibits recovered from the suspects are cowries shells, Metal brass balls, neck beads, and a TVS motorcycle with registration number RGB 702 QT. NSCDC Boss Disbands Anti Vandal Unit Of Rivers State Command NSCDC Seals Unregistered Private Security Company In Ibadan Commandant Adaralewa however promised proper prosecution of the suspects after discreet Investigations.