LAGOS  – BUA Group is currently building more factories in two different parts of the country which will contribute about 6 million additional tonnes to cement supply, its Chairman, Abdul Samad Isyaku Rabiu CON, has stated Rabiu, who made the disclosure at State House on a thank you visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja, also pledged that BUA Group would continue to invest more in the cement industry until Nigeria is self-sufficient and the commodity is made available, accessible, and affordable for all Nigerians. He emphasised that in the past six years, “we have completed 4 plants – two in Obu, Edo State and two in Sokoto (of which this Sokoto line 4 is the fourth) with BUA’s total production capacity now standing at 11.5million tonnes with the completion of this plant. IPMAN, NUPENG Disagree Over Pump Price Exporters To Get N65/$ Rebate On Non-Oil Exports – CBN “Next year, we intend to complete the construction of two new plants of 3 million metric tonnes each for which construction is ongoing – one in Edo and the other, here in Sokoto.” The Chairman of BUA Group, said he looked forward to President Buhari commissioning these plants next year which will bring total production capacity to 17.5million metric tonnes. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday applauded the BUA Group for its strides in narrowing the gap between demand and supply of cement in the country, as the company moves to pump additional 6 million tonnes into the market. The President while receiving a top delegation from BUA Group, led by the Chairman, Abdul Samad Rabiu, applauded the firm for bridging the gap of cement supply in the country. President Buhari had last month visited Sokoto to commission the Line 4 of BUA Cement, which would ensure further availability of cement, of which Nigeria suffers about three million tonnes deficit. POLL “I want to congratulate you on your success,” the President told the BUA Group Chairman. “And I thank you for mobilising senior members of your Group to come and say thank you to me”. “It is remarkable. What you have done in bridging the gap of cement supply in the country is quite commendable. You have proven that the productive capacity of a country is very important”, he added. Rabiu said : “Your presence at the commissioning of our Line 4 sends a strong message of commitment to industrialization of our country. “Like you often say, we need to add value to what we produce with locally sourced raw materials, and we remain committed to it.”