ABUJA – The Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) has asked the Federal Government to pay compensation to Nigerians whose vehicles were damaged as a result of the importation of contaminated fuel into the country. The union said the compensation would assuage the trauma and pains caused by the Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS) with high methanol. The President of the Union, Mr Chris Isiguzo, stated this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. FG Pledges Support For Girls Interested In Engineering DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit Isiguzo lamented the challenges faced by Nigerians in the past few days to buy fuel at filling stations in some parts of the country. The union urged those companies responsible for the importation of the contaminated fuel to tow the path of honour as responsible corporate organizations and take full responsibility for their misdemeanour. The statement commended Mele Kyari-led Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) management for the measures taken so far to shore up the supply of recalled contaminated fuel. The statement read: “The present challenge the Union understands is as a result of the importation of PMS with higher than normal methanol level. Since the unfortunate development, it is regrettable to observe that there have been some forth and back between the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, and some of its designated importers over the ‘bad fuel’,” he stated. “At the same time, the NUJ believes that with measures already undertaken by the management of the NNPC especially with a presidential inquest on the way, there should be a limit to politicizing such a sensitive economic matter. POLL “Rather, what ought to obtain now is for a demand that the probe panel as ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari is conclusive, while adequate compensation be paid to all verifiable claims of those whose vehicles may have been affected by the high methanol PMS. Also, the NUJ after having appraised efforts by the Mele Kyari-led NNPC management notes with satisfaction measures to shore up supply of recalled contaminated fuel to ensure that Nigerians do not suffer needlessly “ The union enjoined the NNPC through the Midstream and Downstream Regulatory Authority to monitor filling stations to ensure that those with products dispense them appropriately to curb artificial scarcity and undue pump adjustments. “At a time such as this national emergency, it is our duty as citizens to support initiatives to stem such ugly situation,” the NUJ added.