Fallouts from the recently postponed party national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has continued in Kwara State after some of the party’s major stakeholders, factional wards and local government chairmen, and the youth wing cried out over what they described as the total derailment of the ruling party in the state and at the national level. The outcry from the party faction led by Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa, BOB, but enjoying massive support of two ministers, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and Gbemisola Saraki, both of the Information and Transport ministries, respectively, came at a massive rally, titled, ‘APC Prays: God Save APC,’ held at the Lower Niger River Basin Authority campus, Ilorin. Like in most states in the country, the APC is factionalised with each of the groups lobbying recriminations at each other intermittently. Stop Stalling, Copy APC On Zoning, SaMBA Tells PDP Insecurity: Former Aviation Minister, Fani-Kayode  Advocates… “We are here to show our consistent support for our party, APC, we are also here to show that all is not well in our state,” explained Alh. Akeem Lawal, son of the former governor, Mohammed Alabi Lawal (Late), whose politically family formed a major bulwark of the coalition that ushered in the administration of the incumbent, at the rally. “As you can see we are divided and when we are, we can’t get to the promised land,” he added. He put the blame squarely at the foot of the APC hierarchy in Abuja. “If the national technical committee believes that what they are doing will get us anywhere, they are just deceiving themselves. “They are just creating an avenue for the opposition to turn the table in Kwara. POLL “We have been calling and shouting to let them know that things are not okay here but they have not heeded our call. “They have sent some reconciliation committee, though. “Those ones came, sat in the hotel, just wrote a report and left and as it is today, we cannot win any election in Kwara except we want to deceive ourselves,” Lawal said. Adding voice to Lawal’s claim on the matter, Alh Tajudeen Abdulkadir Audu the Makanma, Lafiagi, said that his group, which he described as ‘APC Loyal of Kwara State’, saw the need to pray for APC. “We are here to pray for the party because things are not looking well in Kwara and indeed APC in Nigeria. 2023: I Had Meetings With Stakeholders In UK Over Election… Umahi Will Fly APC’s Presidential Ticket, Ebonyi Party… “As you can see, all the leadership of the party from the ward level are here today telling the leadership at the National that the game is up,” he said. Speaking on behalf of APC youth, Yinka Raji said that the condition in which APC has found itself in the state and the country is embarrassing. “Apart from the fact that we are not adequately carried along by the government-run by our party, Governor Abdulrahman Adbulrazaq has been busy dividing the party and giving preference to mediocrity over and above merit both in the party and government,” Raji alleged. He listed as part of their grouse, last year’s registration and validation exercise where, as he claimed, they were excluded. He also said that all party promises made to voters have not been fulfilled by the governor. Speaking on behalf of 193 of its factional chairmen of the party in the state, AbdulRasheed Abdul Rauf admitted that the party is in dire strait but he blames the governor. “We observe that since our party won the 2019 general elections in the state, there has been no peace in the party, following the desire of Govenor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to divide the party, which he successfully achieved by forming and funding a group called ‘AA’. “This we believe, is not in the best interest of the party and not in line with the party’s constitution,” he said. Adding his voice, Engineer Muyideen Shitu, said on behalf of the factional 16 Local Government party chairmen of the party, said he could corroborate the allegations by the ward chairmen. “We are happy that the Ward Chairmen have publicly presented their position on the party issues, which they have earlier discussed with us. “We hereby acknowledge that the complaints lodged by the ward chairmen were not limited to their level alone, ‘we Chairmen also suffer the same fate at our different local levels and we also registered same complaints with the state chairman without results so far,” he said.