JOS – Governor Simon Bako Lalong has Commended the decision of the Nigerian Senate to create a Campus of the Nigerian Law School in Plateau State. Lalong Commendation came on the hills of the Senate passing of the Bill amending the Legal Education Act to create 6 new campuses across the country. Lalong said the decision by the Senate is highly commendable as it will further strengthen the training of Nigerian legal professionals and reduce the challenges faced by law graduates in attending the Law School which is a prerequisite for call to the Bar. Ilawe Community Offers Land, Buildings For Smooth Take-off  Of… Senate Flays Immigration Over Payment Of N31.4m To For Grounded… He said “I strongly commend the Senate for this decision and the choice of Plateau State as a host of one of the new campuses. This is the right choice considering the fact that Plateau has been a leading producer of lawyers in Nigeria with the University of Jos churning out many graduates who have gone ahead to make the nation proud in the Bench, the Bar and other sectors. Only recently, we finalised plans to establish a new Law Faculty at the Plateau State University Bokkos to expand the training of lawyers in the State and nation at large”. While expressing optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari will not hesitate to give his assent to the amended law, the Governor assured that Plateau State is ready to host the new Law School Campus as it is a home of learning supported by good weather, hospitable people and enough infrastructure to support the Institution. Lalong commended Senate President Dr. Ahmad Lawan, the leadership and entire members of the Senate; Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters; as well as the Sponsor of the Bill Senator Smart Adeyemi for doing the needful to pass the amendment creating the new Law School campuses. The Governor is also happy that the efforts of his administration in working assiduously to restore peace to the State are yielding positive results as Plateau is now substantially peaceful which has continued to attract not only investors and visitors but Federal projects and Institutions. It could be recalled that the Federal Government last year approved the establishment of the Federal Polytechnic Ny’ak, Shendam; Karl Kumm University Vom; ANAN University Kwall; and most recently the Federal University of Education Pankshin.