West Ham’s Kurt Zouma stance has been put under fresh pressure after Dagenham and Redbridge took the decision to suspend his brother, Yoan Zouma, from competitive matches until the RSPCA have completed their investigation into a video which showed the Hammers player kicking and slapping his pet cat. David Moyes caused further controversy by fielding the centre-back just one day after the video emerged. Kurt has subsequently been fined ‘the maximum amount’ by West Ham for his actions, believed to be two weeks’ wages. The cats were also seized by the RSPCA, although the east London club are yet to take decisive action by suspending the centre-back until the investigation concludes. Trump Won’t Be President In 2024 If Lawsuit Succeeds… Libyan Parliament Appoints New Prime Minister In fact, some were outraged to see that the 27-year-old was chosen from the start against Watford on Tuesday, a game in which he was relentlessly booed as Moyes’ side edged a 1-0 victory. Dagenham have taken a decisive step with his younger brother, Yoan, and they released a statement on Thursday afternoon. “Yoan was this week contacted by the RSPCA to assist in their investigation and is fully cooperating with them,” it read. “However, Dagenham & Redbridge FC would again like to reiterate that it condemns any form of cruelty towards animals and fully understands the reaction of many of its supporters. “The club has therefore decided that until the RSPCA has completed its investigations, Yoan will not play for Dagenham & Redbridge in any competitive match. POLL “Any further action deemed necessary to be taken will be made at the conclusion of the RSPCA investigation.” Yoan Zouma made the switch from French to English football in 2018, spending two years with Bolton Wanderers. He has since embarked on a gradual drop down the divisions, and this season he has featured in six National League matches for Dagenham and Redbridge. Most of the public eye has focused on West Ham’s approach to his older brother as the higher-profile figure and fully-fledged France international. Moyes justified his selection on Tuesday evening by labelling Zouma ‘one of the his better players’, even after admitting that he was an ‘animal lover’ and could understand fans’ negative reaction. Methanol: Moahz Oil Boss Urges Increase In Supply Of Petrol… Barcelona’s No.1 Summer Midfield Target Confirmed Hammers striker Michael Antonio seemed to question the punishment being called for by some fans, particularly in relation to instances of racism in the past. But Dagenham’s stance does appear to stand in clear opposition to that of West Ham, at least at present, after their decision to drop Yoan Zouma until further notice. A recent Hammers statement included: “West Ham United would like to reiterate our condemnation of Kurt’s actions and make it clear that the matter continues to be handled with the utmost seriousness. “However, we believe it is now important to allow the RSPCA to conduct their investigation in a fair and thorough manner, and will be making no further comment at this stage.”