EMMANUEL OBETA What then is Digital/ Online marketing? Digital marketing is the component of marketing that uses internet and online based digital technologies such as desktop computers, mobile phones and other digital media and platforms to promote products and services. It might interest you to find out that the total number of smartphones across the world crossed the 3 billion mark in 2019 (Statistica.com). This gives you a faint idea of the immense potential of digital marketing across the world. Betking Gifts Customers With Brand New SUVs At AFKON Campaign… Digital Online Marketing As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (1) Its development during the 1990s and 2000s changed the way brands and businesses use technology for marketing. As digital platforms became increasingly incorporated into marketing plans and everyday life, and as people increasingly use digital devices instead of visiting physical shops, digital marketing campaigns have become prevalent, employing combinations of search engine optimization (SEO), search engine marketing (SEM), content marketing, influencer marketing, content automation, campaign marketing, data-driven marketing, e-commerce marketing, social media marketing, social media optimization, e-mail direct marketing, display advertising, e-books, and optical disks and games have become commonplace. The key & major demarcating factor in digital communication is the reverse control of messaging platforms where instead of one powerful organization like the radio, newspaper or television houses beaming out their selected content to everyone (numerous numbers of people) a single individual with the aid of the various social media platforms is beaming out his own chosen content to selected number of people who deliberately chose to be receiving or have access to such communication. The center of influence and persuasion is no longer centralised but dispersed or decentralised across different lines of several influencers such that the marketing message encounters increasing mediating factors before reaching the desired audience. With these mediating factors the impact of these marketing and advertising messages gets watered down along the line. POLL The control with regards to the content of communication is shared between the sender & receiver. The sender sends his message which the receiver has control of & can decide to watch or listen to or to delete & not watch it. After watching it, he or she can respond in equal measure by creating & posting his own content which the former sender now receiver can also exercise equal amount of control in receiving & responding to. It is digital not only because of the digital platform, but that the sending & receiving of messages are digitalised or segmented and targeted in terms of broadcasting or sending it as opposed to the mass oriented system of the previous messaging platform. There are now increasing abilities to isolate a group of people and interact with them with the content of a message to the exclusion all other groups of people. Sanwo-Olu Approves Creation Of Tertiary Drainage Squard Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (17) Digital marketing is also the melting point for all marketing tools and activities. Prior to the advent of the digital online marketing you had clearly compartmentalised aspects of marketing like advertising, public relations, marketing communications, events & sponsorships, copy writing, editing, video production & editing etc. However digital online marketing is like the melting point or the pot pourri of the entire marketing activity. In a single digital online campaign you will have all these elements mixed together. It will both act as an advertising, marketing, sales platform with media copy, events, sponsorships, discount sales, public relations advertising & testimonials all jumbled in together as one. It is therefore, the denouement as well as the most critically challenging and all-encompassing aspect of marketing. Any marketing professional that cannot think and operate on all the dimensions of marketing cannot expect to function well or survive in this era of digital/ online marketing. This tendency or trend in digital online marketing is basically because the initiators/ innovators in the area of online marketing were not marketing but IT professionals who didn’t see the need for the demarcation & partitioning of the platform. As a matter of fact, they learnt marketing & saw marketing as a tool to exploit the inherent capabilities of their IT/ online platform. Marketing people who were used to the fine lines of demarcation & partitioning in their profession are now playing catch up in a field or platform that they were hitherto not used to or conversant with. This is why experience has shown that the best digital/ online marketers are digital entrepreneurs who only applied the techniques of marketing to achieve their goals & objectives on the selected IT platforms. Digital & online marketing is therefore, the practice of marketing on a new terrain/ platform using a completely different approach, technique & technology to reach a unique set of audience or consumers whose buying behavior & process have been changed and altered from what it used to be. For instance in the normal process of buyer behavior the search precedes the actual purchase behavior but in a digital age & platform both processes can take place simultaneously. Even when there is an interregnum of time the search platform is not only versatile but worldwide where with a single click of the button millions of options of the same products and services from all across the world will be available to the individual. Time and space or geography is no longer a factor in the procurement of goods and services, with the advent of e- commerce any goods or services can be procured from any part of the world. The platform of competition for the producers of these goods and services are no longer local, regional but has suddenly become international in dimension. The producer will now be forced to benchmark the best international standards as the consumers or customers are no longer restricted to local or regional suppliers but can access the very best of options all across the world. The dynamics of the search process has also changed as the consumers or customers have developed some leverage to the point that they can request for items, goods or services that are beyond the ones showcased by the supplier. For example, a buyer approaches a product designer with an already existing design of what he or she wants and is only asking the producer if he can produce exactly what he wants or has come up with. Here the buyer is not shopping for the product or brand to buy, but for the producer who can meet up with the expectations of what he already wants which in the first instance may not be among the product offerings of the producer. This is why NIKE for instance produces specific lines of products for Rafa Nadal, also why Allyson Felix, can come up with her own lines of products “Saysh” turning down every other sponsors in preference for her own product line. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com