The Joint Admission and Matriculations Board, JAMB 2022/23 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) Registrations commence on Saturday, February 19th and end on the 26th of March 2022. Below are the details and procedures for candidates to register with ease. Duration Of Registration JAMB Remits N3.51bn Operating Surplus To Federation Account JAMB Nabs Candidate For Alleged Alteration Of UTME Result The period of registration for all (UTME/DE) candidates including those from Foreign Countriesis from Saturday, 19th February 2022. PIN vending ends on Saturday, 26th March 2022. Cashless Registration/Cost The Board has resolved to henceforth make the UTME and DE registration process cashless to put a stop to acts of extortion. From the 2022 UTME and DE exercise, the board would be collecting the approved N700 registration fee on behalf of the varius Computer Based Test (CBT) Centres along with its UTME registration fees and then remit weekly whatever is due to each registration centre. Eligibility Checker POLL Candidates are advised to check their eligibility for chosen programmes and institutions onhttps://www.jamb.gov.ng select quick link, and then ibass.jamb.gov.ng It is important that candidates check the requirements before commencing the application process. The eligibility checker assists candidates with options of programmes (courses) based on their qualifications. No Double Registration Indeed it is a sanctionable infraction to obtain two application documents in the same year. Double/multiple registrations attract outright cancellation and prosecution. According to the Board, candidates are not permitted to register more than once. However, the Board explained that n the event of any error during the registration process, such candidates are to seek correction from the Board and not to obtain a fresh application as doing so would attract sanction. JAMB Revenues Drops Over Compulsory NIN Registration UTME: Parents Defy JAMB’s Instruction, As Candidates Seek… Creation Of Profile Every Candidate would require the use of a unique phone (mobile) number (SIM) for theprocess of registration. The unique phone number can be used by one candidate only. Candidates are to note that his/her number (SIM) remains a unique identification for all your transactions with theBoard. Candidate will send his/her National Identification Number (NIN) by text (SMS) to either 55019or 66019 from his/her personal GSM number. E.g write the word ‘NIN’ then space and add your11-digit NIN Number and send to 55019 or 66019 in this format (NIN 00123456789). There should be a space between the word ‘NIN’ and your 11-digit NIN (Note that the number mustnot have been used by another person to register for UTME/DE in the past). Candidates are advised not to use Postpaid or special bundle package because they do not work unless specially loaded with credit. A Profile Code of 10 characters will be received by the candidate on the same telephone (SIM) number.The phone (mobile) number used for the text message is automatically tied to the candidate’s name and will be used in all communication relating to each candidate. JAMB advises candidates to note and always remember the sim-number used, saying it is of utmost importance for subsequent communication with the board. Any candidate that obtained the UTME/DE application documents, such a candidate has accepted toreceive text messages from JAMB (55019 or 66019) even when the ‘do not disturb” is activated. The candidate will present the profile code at the point of procurement of application document from Banks, MMOs, MFBs, Switches, USSD Partners). An ePIN is then sent as text message to the candidate’s phone. Registration Proper, No Submission Of Passport Photograph The candidate will present the Profile code and ePIN at any JAMB accredited CBT Centre forregistration. The Board warned that the application cannot be completed until the candidate’s biometrics (all ten fingers) are captured and photograph taken physically (No submission of passport photograph). Successful capture of biometrics and photograph will authorise a candidate to print his/her registration slip. The fingerprint shall be required for any further transaction with JAMB on the candidate’s profile.Only candidates whose biometric verification is successful on examination day would bepermitted to sit the UTME. No To Parents Or Proxy The Board emphasised that no parent or any proxy would be allowed to make any transaction on the candidate’s profile. Candidates with biometric challenges can only register at JAMB headquarters in Abuja.Arrangements should be made for this through JAMB-state offices. Retrieval For Loss, Correction Of Mistakes, Loss Of Profile Codes Self-Service To retrieve a lost Profile Code, send the word [RESEND) from the same mobile number to 55019 or 66019 as a text message. The registration process and all activities on candidates profiles are being monitored by the Board and defaulters shall be severely sanctioned. Any candidate who makes his password, profile code or other security codes available to anotherperson (parents, friends, tutorial teachers, fraudsters etc) is liable for any alteration done bysuch person(s). JAMB warns candidates not to share password to anybody including its’ officials, saying the codes are not to be demanded at any registration centre by any person for any purpose. Choice Of Institutions JAMB said any Institution can be the first choice that could be a College of Education, University,Innovation Enterprise Institution, Polytechnic/Monotechnic, Nigerian Defence Academy or Police Academy. Foreign Students Foreign Candidates are to visit the Nigerian Embassy for guidance on how to apply in any ofthe following countries: Abidjan, cote Delvoire, Accra, Ghana, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Beau, Cameroun, and Cotonou, Benin Republic. Orders are Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Johannesburg, South Africa, London, United Kingdom and Berlin, Germany. Registration Procedure At Nine Foreign Centres:Registration fee for candidates from the nine foreign countries is Twenty United States Dollars(20) or it’s equivalent in each of the eight countries local currency (6) Candidates from the nine foreign countries are to download the Application from the Board’s website (https://www.jamb.gov.ng), complete and submit it with the fee at the designated 3.544 pt centres in the country as indicated on the website. Method, Modes Of Payment Banks/ Micro-Finance Bank: Present Profile Code and pay by cash or card. ePIN is then delivered to the candidate’s unique telephone number. POS:This is available at State Offices of JAMB +CBT Centres, other POS outlets and any CBTCentre that demands it. Present Profile Code and pay by card and ePIN is then delivered to the candidate’s unique telephone number. Mobile Money Operators This is available at CBT Centres and Other Outlets as above in banks. Payment Using ATMThis is available on all ATM outlets of Participating Banks by selecting Bill Payment and then pick JAMB, enter Profile Code and pay.ePIN is then delivered to the candidate’s unique telephone number. Online Payment On JAMB PortalVisit JAMB website: www.jamb.gov.ngClick purchase of 2022 Application Document, enter your Profile Code, select payment method and make payment. ePIN is then delivered to the candidate’s unique telephone number. Offer Of Free Application Documents JAMB directs any government, person or organisation that wishes to distribute free applicationdocuments to prospective applicants is required to urgently procure the bulk-pinsfrom either JAMB or any of the approved sale outlets i. Candidates who want to enjoy any of these offers are advised to visit the sponsor’s designated bank(s) or office (NOT ANY CBT centre) to collect the e-pin after individually creating their profiles as illustrated above. No refund would be made to any candidate if he/she had earlier purchased the application document before being offered free ePIN. JAMB advises such applicants should refrain from multiple registration. How To Recover Lost E-pin After Paymentsend [UTMEPIN] or [DEPIN] from the Unique number to 55019 or 66019 for UTME or DE respectivelyThe ePIN would then be retrieved and delivered to the candidate’s unique phone number. AFTER SUCCESSFUL PAYMENT AND OBTAINING ePIN, CANDIDATE SHOULD PROCEED TO ANYOF THE JAMB ACCREDITED CBT CENTRES TO COMPLETE HIS/HER REGISTRATIONREGISTRATION CENTRESRegistration is carried out only at the accredited Computer Based Test Centres (CBT) andProfessional Registration Centres (PRC)ii. Each candidate should visit any accredited CBT centre (the list of accredited centres is on the Board’s website (www.jamb.gov.ng and JAMB offices), with his/her profile code and e-PIN. ii. Facilities exist in some designated JAMB state offices for self-service Registration Process At CBT Centres Candidate must visit approved CBT centres, present his/her profile Code for registration. The candidate’s photograph and biometrics (all the ten fingerprints) would be captured at the CBT centre. Candidates are to note that the service charge of N700 hitherto payable at the CBT centre for registration(NOT MOCK) is now part of the registration fee as such candidates are not to pay forregistration. During registration, no other payment is required.ii. Provide choice of institutions and programmes (course of study) Provide qualification with grades and dates, if not awaiting result Upload relevant certificates, if not awaiting result (this is applicable for both UTME and Direct Entry (DE) candidates. Provide O/L and /or A/L grades. Candidates who are awaiting results should supply (upload) the results online on CAPS (JAMB) as soon as they are available. No recommendations from any Institution will be considered by JAMB if the candidate does not upload his/her result on the portal of JAMB. No institution is allowed to take a new picture/photograph, biometrics or require any other upload of the result. All results are downloadable by institutions from the Board’s website (and the download is tracked toavoid abuse). vi. Supply JAMB registration number for previous institutional certificates for DE only vi. Provide UI ME Subjects and choice of examination town(s) for optional mock For mock, candidates pay the centre on the day of the mock examination. Blind Candidates Candidates who are blind are to indicate by typing BLIND and also pick the option of sitting forthe examination through CBT mode or Read Aloud. A candidate is either blind or sighted. It isimportant to be factual. During registration, once a candidate indicates that he or she is blind, there would be adropdown box for the candidate to select the town closest to his/her residence to write theexam. The towns available for the blind candidates are as follows: Abuja, FCT, Bauchi, BauchiState, Benin, Edo State, Ekiti, Ekiti State, Enugu, Enugu State, Kano, Kano State, Kebbi, KebbiState, Lagos, Lagos State, Oyo, Oyo State, Plateau, Plateau State, Yola, Adamawa States. Deaf/Mute Candidates A special indicator for the deaf/mute has been created to differentiate them for specialattention at the examination hall. Deaf candidates are therefore required to confirm thisappropriately during registration. Biometric Challenges Candidates with biometric challenges can only register at JAMB headquarters in Abuja. No Other centre is permitted to register such candidates they will also sit tor their examination at JAMB headquarters in Abuja Candídates with Biometric abnormalities can only register and take the examination at the Abuja headquarters of the Board. The Board will facilitate the travels. The 2022 UTME will commence on Friday, 6th May and end on Sunday, 15 May, 2022.