LAGOS – The Rescue Nigeria Youth Solomon Dalung Foundation, on Tuesday in Lagos, berated the rising level of poverty in the country despite being the Africa’s biggest oil producer and the second-largest economy on the continent The foundation mobilising support for the candidacy of Prince Barr. Adebayo Adewole for presidency come 2023 said it is time Nigerians decided to select a young and vibrant person, not above 60-years-old, to rule the country in the right direction. National Coordinator of the Rescue Nigeria Youth Solomon Dalung Foundation, Mr. Navy Stephen while speaking at the inauguration of the southwest Zonal Executive of the foundation in Lagos said Nigeria needs a man who is very vibrant and full of energy to steer the ship of the nation as President-elect from 2023. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Convention: APC Governors Meet, Zone NWC Seats The Foundation, which lamented on the endemic nature corruption has assumed in the country said the menace has erroneously been taken as part of the Democratic system.Hence, Navy advocated that the country needs a young mind to contest for President 2023 to rescue Nigerians from the present calamity in the person and personality of Prince Barrister Adebayo Adewole. He said the mission to rescue Nigeria from the stronghold of corrupt politicians and businessmen rested on the shoulders of every youth to obtain and exercise their franchise by voting for the right candidate. The southwest Zonal Coordinator Deji Elemide berated the insecurity challenges, the high rate of unemployment and the insincerity of the government to put in place and provide an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. He warned that the rising debt profile may be difficult to repay if Nigerians allow mediocre to continue to rule the nation Elemide said the time has come for Nigerians to stand up and reject the imposition of leaders. POLL He urged Barrister Adewole not to look back but continue and step up efforts for the realisation of his environment as Nigeria’s president and save the country from the present inept administration of the ruling party. Elemide cautioned youths in Nigeria that if precautions are not taken now, the country may suffer the same degradation that befell Uganda in the hands of the second slavery being perpetrated by the Chinese government through unexplainable loans. The highlight of the event was the oath-taking and inauguration of the chairmen for Ondo, Oyo, Lagos, Osun, Ogun and Ekiti States by Barrister Adeleke Adenuga.