ABUJA – Mr. Olutoyin Ayinde, National President of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners(NITP) has described both Federal and State Governments as being lawless and ignorant of town planning. Ayinde, who stated this on Friday in Abuja at a media briefing following the advocacy visits of the management of NITP to 20 States across the country, lamented that“Nigerian governments are largely lawless and ignorant, with only a few showing willingness to get rid of these limitations.” He explained that the leadership of the NITP recognised a lack of sufficient knowledge of Urban and Regional Planning, generally known as Town Planning and decided to embark on advocacy visits to some States which revealed a lot of infractions and inadequacies in the area of town planning. Jim Ovia Foundation, Zenith Bank Gift 3,500 Tablets To Indigent… IGP Charges Strategic Police Managers On Intelligence-Driven… He said: “When this administration set out to lead the Nigerian Institute, it recognised the lack of sufficient knowledge of the profession of Urban and Regional Planning, generally known as Town Planning. “The focus of the administration was, therefore, to engage with various stakeholders including government, to enlighten the ignorant and make the public aware of the profession and its benefits to the development of the geographical space of the nation. “One of the reasons for the state to state visits was therefore to ascertain the state of the Urban and Regional Planning Law in each of the states and to advise on steps necessary to ensure ordered development. “The visit was also an advocacy visit to raise awareness about physical planning and to emphasize that the sequence between planning and development must of necessity be like the sequence between thinking and speaking. “After visiting 20 states, spoken physically to seven State Governors, met three state governors’ representatives, discussed with five Speakers of Houses of Assembly, engaged 10 Vice-Chancellors, three Rectors and two Deputy Rectors, was hosted by several traditional rulers, spoke at every state radio and/or television stations, the general view is that Nigerian governments are largely lawless and ignorant, with only a few showing willingness to get rid of these limitations. POLL “The truth about laws is that they are principles. Principles are never broken for free; the consequences become glaring in a very short term.” Ayinde, a former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos State, noted that Nigerian Urban and Regional Planning Law was promulgated via Decree 88 in 1992, adding that it subsequently became a Law of the Federal Republic of Nigeria CAP 138 (LFN 2004). He further explained that the principle underlying this law was its domestication in every State of the Federation. He, however, noted that many states are yet to domesticate the Law, while the States that have domesticated it are violating the Law in its implementation. According to him, “The Nigerian Institute of Town Planners is able to classify the states visited into six categories:Those that have domesticated and are operating the Urban and Regional Planning Law. Warri Agog As Atanomeyovwi Gives Daughter’s Hand In… You’re Not Begging But Negotiating, Buhari Tells APC… “Those that have domesticated and are operating the Law in breach; andthose that have not domesticated the Law, even if they are still working at it; some are said to be awaiting Governor’s assent, or at the Houses of Assembly, etc. “Those that have muddled up the whole system, mistaking Geographical Information System for Physical Planning; States in this category include Kwara and Imo, who have turned the process upside down. “Some of these States just need to be helped. They think they know, whereas they are very ignorant; I don’t know who bewitched these governments to embark on this path of destruction. “Those that see Urban and Regional Planning as a revenue-generating tool; there are quite a lot doing this, making money out of confusion, and then turning around to say the planners aren’t working. “Some states at the Executive or Legislature levels think it is a political document used to trade between professions and to see who occupied one office or the other as created by the Law.” Therefore, Ayinde warned of the dire consequences of disregard for Urban and Regional Planning in Nigeria. This, he pointed out, would result in the building collapse, which is rooted in the collapse of values, morals and ethics; an increasing clash between farmers and herders; heightened incidence of crime and insecurity in the ungoverned spaces and stunted national development. He warned: “Nigeria needs to wake up or look forward to the doom that lies ahead of planless and lawless nations.” To this end, the National President of NITP, urged governments at all levels, to embrace planning in order to deliver orderly society, balanced development and good governance to the citizenry.