LAGOS – Seplat Energy Plc, one of leading Nigerian Energy Company listed on the Nigerian Exchange and the London Stock Exchange is set to acquire the entire share capital of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPNU) from Exxon Mobil Corporation, Delaware for $1.583 billion. The transaction, according to a note to the Nigerian Exchange, is subject to Ministerial Consent and other required regulatory approvals. Seplat Energy will acquire the entire share capital of MPNU from Exxon Mobil Corporation, Delaware (USA Incorporated), with an effective date of 1 January 2021 for a consideration of $1.283 billion, subject to lockbox, working capital and other adjustments at closing relative to the effective date. Fidelity Bank Sensitises Customers In Emerging Non-Oil… Rise And Fall Of Aregbesola And Consequences The Transaction agreement also includes potential additional contingent consideration of up to $300 million in total, payable over the period January1, 2022 to December 31, 2026, and contingent upon average Brent crude oil prices exceeding $70 per barrel and subject to MPNU’s average working interest production exceeding 60 kboepd (JV: 150 kboepd) in such calendar year. The transaction encompasses the acquisition of the entire offshore shallow water business of ExxonMobil in Nigeria, which is an established, high-quality operation with a highly skilled local operating team and a track record of safe operations, producing 95 kboepd (W.I.) in 2020 (92% liquids). The transaction will create one of the largest independent energy companies on both the Nigerian and London Stock Exchanges, and bolster Seplat Energy’s ability to drive increased growth, profitability and overall stakeholder prosperity Based on 2020 pro forma working interest volumes for Seplat Energy and MPNU, the transaction delivers 186 per cent increase in production from 51 kboepd to 146 kboepd o 170 per cent increase in 2P liquids reserves, from 241 MMbbl to 650 MMbbl. There is also 14 per cent increase in 2P gas reserves from 1,501 Bscf to 1,712 Bscf, plus significant undeveloped gas potential of 2,910 Bscf (JV: 7,275 Bscf) and 89 per cent increase in total 2P reserves from 499 MMboe to 945 MMboe[1] POLL It also includes offshore fields with dedicated, MPNU-operated export routes offering enhanced security and reliability. The transaction is classified as a reverse takeover for the purposes of UK Listing Rules relating to the Company’s listing on the London Stock Exchange. Upon completion of the Transaction, Seplat Energy will need to re-apply for admission to the Official List. Accordingly, Seplat Energy will prepare a prospectus in respect of Seplat Energy as enlarged by MPNU in connection with the required reapplication for listing of such shares on the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market for Standard-Listed securities. Dr. Bryant Orjiako, Chairman of Seplat Energy, said: “This is a transformational acquisition for Seplat Energy that strengthens our partnership with the national oil company, the NNPC, and consummates the spirit of the newly enacted PIA. “As a significantly larger business, with a stronger resource base and greatly enhanced capabilities, we will be better positioned to provide sustainable energy solutions that drive growth and profitability for the benefit of all our stakeholders, particularly our host communities and the wider Nigerian economy”. EFG Hermes Corp-Solutions Signs $25m Deal With Transmar OneBank Rewards Nigerian Workers With Enhanced Financial… Roger Brown, CEO of Seplat Energy, said:“This transaction underpins Seplat Energy’s drive to be a leader in the growth of the indigenous independent energy sector in Nigeria. “The acquisition is a perfect fit with our strategy to build a sustainable business and deliver energy transition in Nigeria. Our financial strength has enabled us to attract high quality local and international capital providers to fund this transaction without diluting our existing shareholders and reflects our deliberate approach to capital allocation”.