LAGOS  – With about one year and few days to the presidential election, there are insinuations that President Muhammadu Buhari is under serious pressure to, again, reject the reworked Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2022, which was recently passed by the National Assembly. On Tuesday, January 25, both chambers of the National Assembly amended the bill to allow political parties adopt direct or indirect primaries or consensus as procedures for selecting candidates for elective offices. Days after the harmonised bill was passed into law by both chambers, it was transmitted by the National Assembly Clerk, Olatunde Amos Ojo, to President Buhari for his assent. 2023: Nobody Should Spoil Ubuluisiuzo, Osumoghu’s Chances… Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, who presided over the plenary the day the amended act was passed, stated that both chambers have agreed to give a clear and sufficient definition for each mode of primaries, and how they would be conducted. He explained that for the consensus method, the two chambers have produced a very clear definition of how a consensus candidate would emerge. President Buhari had failed to sign the bill into law over the provision of direct primaries as the sole mode of conducting political parties’ primaries. The bill, earlier passed by the National Assembly on November 18, 2021, stipulates that “a political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this bill shall hold direct primaries for aspirants to all elective positions, which shall be monitored by the commission”. Buhari had disclosed he would assent the electoral bill if the lawmakers provided options for the conduct of political parties’ primaries. POLL The President enumerated a series of disadvantages of the system, which he said included the manipulation by incumbent officeholders, who seek re-elections, as well as political parties’ inability to muster the funds to finance it. However, there are claims that some governors are not happy with the new amendment and they have continued to prevail on the President not to sign it. Sources said these governors and others pushing against presidential assent to the bill put their argument on “certain anti-democratic and discriminatory clauses.” The amended act, if signed and becomes law, political parties will be expected to submit the names of their presidential candidates by August 18, six months before the date of the presidential election. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) timetable, the presidential election will be held on February 18, 2023. Okowa’s Aide Declares Intention For Warri South West,… Only Women Can Deliver Nigeria From Corruption, Says Karen James Many have been expecting the President to assent the bill as they believe that the merits of the reworked bill outweigh the imperfections. Since the bill was passed, there have been calls on President Buhari to ignore the pressure from governors and sign the act into law. PDP Lawmakers Prod Buhari Opposition federal lawmakers last week, asked President Buhari to assent to the Bill 2022 without delay. The lawmakers, under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Assembly caucus, made the demand at their meeting with the leadership of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the party. Leader of the caucus, who is also the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinaya Abaribe, and his counterpart in the House of Representatives, Ndidi Elumelu, told newsmen that the president must sign the bill after they (lawmakers) have worked on everything he (Buhari) complained about. According to Abaribe, “We are asking President Buhari to sign the Electoral Act, which we have passed. We made sure that everything he complained about has been given to him. “Now that we have bent backwards, no excuse or reason should be given again. Provisions of the bill are very critical for expected credibility of the 2023 general elections,” he said. Elumelu on his part, alleged that some APC governors are again plotting to stop the President from assenting to the reworked bill. He, however, urged President Buhari not to yield to the request of the governors but sign the bill owing to its importance in strengthening the country’s electoral process. He said: “We met them, they said they want direct primary. We said okay, if it will mean giving Nigerians a very sound electoral reform, we will accept it. “They came back again and said, oh, we have rejected it, we now want indirect primary. We said we agree, but give Nigerians electoral reform. They came back again and said, we want consensus. We have added consensus to the amendment. “Again, I am hearing that, among them, those APC governors, with their wuru-wuru, are still plotting for the president not to sign. Nigerians are tired of APC. We promise not to let the people down. That is why we are asking APC and President Buhari to sign the Electoral Act. Sign it, Nigerians want it signed. No more delay.” Though, President Buhari had in an exclusive interview on Channels TV, January 5, stated his readiness to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill after the National Assembly makes the necessary adjustments. He said such changes must include the addition of consensus candidates, indirect primary options to the mode of selecting a candidate for an election, as against the initial direct mode as the only option to conduct primaries by political parties. His words: “Personally, I do not support direct primary because I want people to be given a choice. You can’t give them one option and think that you are being democratic. Let them have three options, there is the consensus. I didn’t tell the legislators what I didn’t like. All I said is that there should be options and once that is done, I will sign. We must not insist that it has to be direct; it should be consensus and indirect.” But sources in the presidency disclosed that the President may still reject the bill because of “vendetta and anti-democratic clauses” in the reworked Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2022. According to a source, “We may end up using the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) for the 2023 general election because of strange clauses. “For instance, it is illegal to exclude political office holders from primaries. By implication, ministers, commissioners and others cannot participate in the electoral process. “Also, the nation does not have the wherewithal for the use of the electronic voting machine. Most politicians in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are uncomfortable with it. “The consensus clause is cumbersome and an attempt to hit back at state governors who used to impose candidates. So, we should expect a likely rejection of the bill by the President.” The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami said on Monday while featuring on Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’, that he received the reworked bill sent to him by the President for his advice, last Monday, saying he will propose to the President to sign the bill if the content is in the national interest. When asked if he was satisfied with the amendments made to the bill by the National Assembly after Buhari sent it back to the parliament, Malami said, “In terms of satisfaction, honestly, it is premature for me to conclude, taking into consideration (that) I can admit to you that the electoral bill was only received in my office this afternoon as I was preparing to come over for this engagement with Channels TV. “So, I have not taken steps to review the content and context of what has been presented for consideration for the President. So, it is premature and pre-emptive for me at this moment, now to arrive at any conclusion, taking into consideration that I have not gone through the document to understand what it contains and then analyse the same in accordance with the constitution and the prevailing laws.” When asked if he loved democracy and wanted the advancement of the same, being someone who had been involved in political party activities, the minister interjected, “I am working for the advancement of democracy and the democratic system.” While responding to a question on if he was willing to assist President Buhari to pass what the President said he wanted to leave behind as a legacy of good elections for Nigeria; and if the bill might get assented to by Buhari, the minister said, “Honestly, without going through or reading through, I am not in a position to assess whether the bill, indeed, has factored the national and public interest, as against selfish interest, among others; whether it is a bill that can stand the test of constitutionality and legality.” Malami’s Explanation When asked if he would advise the President to reject the amended bill if he was not satisfied with the new version, Malami said, “Certainly, if I am not satisfied and if I am of the opinion that it is against the public interest, the national interest, and then against the dictates of democratic process, I would advise accordingly. “But then, one thing I can tell you is that we are all interested in leaving behind a legacy of a lasting democracy; a democracy that indeed accommodates the collective interest of the Nigerian state, and eventually advances the national interest, national development and deepens the democratic process. “So, with these considerations associated with deepening democracy; with the considerations associated with the national and public interest, we will certainly do whatever it takes to move democracy to the next level.” When asked to express to Nigerians his commitment to deepening democracy in Nigeria, the minister stated that his office is a constitutional one, which is fundamentally governed by public interest. “And when we are talking of the public interest, I am talking of the interest of 200 million Nigerians. I will be guided at all times by my oath of office associated with public interest, exclusive of the sentiments or the feelings,” he added. The question on the lips of many is what happens if President Buhari for the seventh time, withholds assent to the Bill? One of the major consequences would be its effect on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s preparations for the 2023 general election. INEC had previously stated that the timetable for the 2023 general election would not be released until the electoral bill was signed into law. INEC’s Worry Over Delay INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, stated at a consultative meeting with political parties in Abuja on January 19 that “as soon as it (the electoral bill) is signed into law, the Commission would quickly release the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general election based on the new law.” Also in a recent interview, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye said, “The commission operates on the basis of the existing legal regime. The commission released the timetable and schedule of activities for the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections based on the extant and existing constitutional and electoral legal framework. “The commission does not operate on the basis of speculation and deductions. Yes, the commission is aware of the pendency of a bill to amend the existing legal regime. That bill is still inchoate and does not become law until it is signed by the President and or the National Assembly determines otherwise. “Hopefully, issues around the amended law will soon be resolved. It is important to have the legal regime in place at least 12 to 18 months before a major election. It is also important to resolve the issues based on the differential timelines in the existing electoral act and the one that is projected in the bill.” According to other provisions in the bill, the INEC may use an electronic voting machine or any other voting device for the election. Ministers, commissioners and other political appointees are barred from serving as poll agents during the election. Besides, no political appointee at any level, be it a minister, commissioner or board chairman, can vote or be voted for during primaries. They are mandated to resign before the primaries of their parties. The election expenses for elective offices are pegged as follows: presidential, N5billion; governorship, N1billion; Senate and House of Representatives, N100million and N70million; House of Assembly, N30million; chairmanship election into an area council, N30million; and councillorship, N5million. No individual or other entity shall donate to a candidate more than N50million. Section 29 (1-3) of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2022 is explicit on the deadline for the submission of the list of candidates. The section says: “Every political party shall, not later than 180 days before the date appointed for a general election under this Act, submit to the Commission, in the prescribed forms, the list of the candidates the party proposes to sponsor at the elections, who must have emerged from valid primaries conducted by the political party. “The list or information submitted by each candidate shall be accompanied by an affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the Federal High Court, High Court of a state, or Federal Capital Territory, indicating that he or she has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election into that office. “The Commission shall, within seven dys of the receipt of the personal particulars of the candidate, publish the same in the constituency where the candidate intends to contest the election.” Regarding mode of primaries, Section 84 (1) recommends: “A political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions, which shall be monitored by the Commission. “(2) The procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the various elective positions shall be by direct, indirect primaries or consensus.” Provision For Consensus Candidates The conditions for consensus are as follows: a political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate. Where a political party is unable to secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the purpose of a consensus candidate, it shall revert to the choice of direct or indirect primaries for the nomination of candidates for the aforesaid elective positions. A special convention or nomination congress shall be held to ratify the choice of consensus candidates at designated centres at the national, state, senatorial, federal and state constituencies, as the case may be. Section 84(10-13) limits courts from either stopping party primaries or elections from holding. The section prevents political office holders at any level from participating or contesting for nomination into any elective office during primaries at the national convention or state congress. It claims: “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” Though the lawmakers created some tough conditions for political parties that choose to adopt the consensus option, one of which is to obtain written consent from any aspirant withdrawing from the race, the option is still seen as undemocratic, and subject to abuse by politicians given the Machiavellian nature of politics in Nigeria. As every election season approaches, Nigerian politics becomes dangerous, with politicians displaying a winner-take-it-all, an end justifies the means attitude, to the detriment of the citizens. Analysts believe that with the 2023 general election fast approaching, this piece of legislation if assented to by President Buhari might lead to series of litigations by aspirants at the level of party primaries. Also, the option takes away the only real power the people have, which is to vote in their preferred candidate. Furthermore, there are reasons candidates should be subjected to elections because once you adopt consensus, you subvert popular will and so members of the party are not given the opportunity to nominate candidates. Nomination, therefore, becomes the exclusive preserve of political bigwigs in the party to determine who a candidate is.