Abuja – Contrary to story making the rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari ordered that a query be issued to the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) over the importation of adulterated fuel into the country, an authoritative source in the presidency has said nothing of such ever happened. The earlier report by a national newspaper, credited to an unnamed source, had said an angry President Buhari, who doubles as Minister of Petroleum, directed the Minister of State, Mr. Timipre Sylva, to issue a query to Mr. Farouk Ahmed, the NMDPRA boss. The very competent presidency source, however, told correspondents covering State House on Tuesday that it was time to set the records straight. 2023: Group Canvasses Tinubu As Consensus Candidates Of All… Davido Disburses N250m To 292 Orphanage Homes “There was no directive to issue a query. What Mr. President is interested in is for all the stakeholders to team up, and resolve the issue that has brought untold hardship to Nigerians, who queue hours on end to get petrol. The president is aware that the Minister of State, the Chief Executive Officer of NNPC Ltd, Mele Kyari, the NMDPRA head, and everyone involved, are working together to resolve the issues, at the shortest possible time,” the source said. He added that what was uppermost in the mind of the president was the restoration of smooth supply of quality petrol to Nigerians, “and not recriminations or blame game.” “Forget the story of any query being issued. It is not correct. Yes, Mr. President is unhappy with what happened, but he didn’t direct that a query be issued. The story is not correct,” the source affirmed. NNPC Distributes 1bn Litres Of Fuel Nationwide Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited (NNPC) says it is distributing one billion litres of safe premium motor spirit (PMS), known as petrol, in its stock to various fuel stations nationwide. The NNPC also noted that 2.3 billion litres of PMS would arrive Nigeria between now and February ending to address the current situation and restore sufficiency. POLL Mr. Adetunji Adeyemi, Group Executive Director, Downstream, NNPC, disclosed this on Tuesday in Abuja while briefing newsmen. Adeyemi said this would address the situation and restore sufficiency level above the national target of 30 days. He said that the NNPC understood the current fuel supply disruptions in many parts of the country caused by the discovery and subsequent quarantine of methanol blended cargoes of PMS. “ As of today, NNPC has one billion litres of petrol in stock and the petrol being dispensed today at various fuel stations in the country is safe. “In order to accelerate PMS distribution across the country, NNPC has commenced operations at its depots and retail outlets,” he said. Similarly, he noted that Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria, Depot Owners and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria and Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria have commenced 24 hours loading and dispensing activities in some of their designated outlets. He added that NNPC has constituted a monitoring team with the support of the Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Authority (NMDPRA) and other security agencies to ensure smooth distribution of PMS nationwide. FCT Council Polls: Legal Practitioner Hails Aliyu For Enhancing… Stakeholders Prioritise Cancer Awareness, Sensitisation In Borno “NNPC implores Nigerians to avoid panic buying and assures that the ongoing efforts would be sustained to restore normalcy in few days’ time.