JOS – Senator ID Gyang, Vice Chairman Senate Committee on Defence, has bagged the “Legislator of the Year” Award Of Daily Asset Newspapers during its annual award/lecture held at NICON Hotel Abuja at the weekend. The event which is themed “The Media, National Security and 2023 Elections” had an array of personalities from all walks of life. The Chairman of the event, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, Former Senate President and National Chairman Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)in his address at the event, stated that the greatest resources of Nigeria are not petroleum, gas or agriculture but the youths of this nation. Buratai Boasts Of Modernised Nigerian Army Tricycle Riders Seek Separation From NURTW, Independent Union Senator I. D. Gyang, Esq was accompanied to the event by Distinguished personalities from Plateau North Senatorial District which includes, Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos, Member Representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency, Rose Ndong Commissioner Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, Dr Simon B. Harry Statistician-General of the Federation, Hon. Dr Timothy Golu, Hon. Peter Ibrahim Gyendeng Minority Leader Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon. Surv. Esther Simi Dusu, Member Jos North/West State Constituency, the Diplomatic Corps, Business Community and Young men and Women across Plateau state and beyond. Goodwill messages came from the representatives of the Governor of Benue State and Dr. Simon B. Harry who both acknowledged the outstanding performance of Senator Gyang saying the award was well deserved. Ayo Adeoye, who represented the Guest Speaker of the occasion Mallam Yakubu Ibn Mohammed Director General, NTA, said”it is incumbent upon the media to make the right choice in its reportage as we approach 2023″. The Legislator of the year award on Senator Gyang is in recognition of Senator Gyang’s outstanding Constituency engagement, activities and interventions to address inter-ethnic and religious tension as Peace Ambassador; and for the numerous empowerment programs targeted at widows, the youths and indigent students through scholarships among others. Senator Gyang who spoke on behalf of all the award recipients admonished Nigerians not to lose hope despite the myriads of challenges facing the nation as there’s respite underway. POLL He asked Nigerians to pray and work for the emergence of more focused and purposeful leadership in 2023 that can turn around the current security, economic and developmental challenges of the nation for the better.