LAGOS – To stop soot pollution in the Niger Delta, stakeholders have advocated the need for the country’s oil refining laws to encourage the establishment of artisanal refineries. They gave the suggestion at a recent meeting convened by Ita Etang, senior special assistant to the president on Niger Delta Affairs. According to the stakeholders, the Petroleum Refining Regulations of 1974 and other relevant laws should be reviewed as a solution to soot pollution in Rivers state and other Niger Delta states. ‘How Oil Production Underperformance Is Affecting Nigeria,… Nigerians Anger Forced FG To Shelve Planned Fuel Hike – Group They emphasised the need for the Federal Government to consider and approve the implementation of the recommendations of the report of the National Summit on the Integration of Artisanal/Modular Refinery Operations into the In-Country Oil Refining Programme of the Oil and Gas Sector held last year in Abuja, to fix the issues of environmental pollution amongst others. They urged various organisations possessing crude oil refining technology should interact with NMDPRA to make presentations on their available technologies for regulations within the law. They noted that the team should engage with artisanal refining representatives to review and proffer solutions to the environmental and economic challenge, among others. “That there should be engagement with the Governors and Governments of impacted states as well as other sub-national structures for further solution to the challenges, to curb re-pollution by the models adopted by the sub-nationals,” it added. They also agreed that there is the need to create a database of those trained in related fields by the presidential amnesty programme, as well as of Petroleum Training Institute, Warri (PTI); the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE); Petroleum Technology Development Trust Fund (PTBF); Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and other relevant institutions to harness their expertise. POLL They added: “That there is the need to explore the possibility of funding the pilot scheme from Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA), Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nigerian Midstream Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA), Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) Windows, amongst others.”