WARRI – Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Udu Local Government Area of Delta State, Udu DSIEC Ward 12, (Egini Community), Mr. Henry Ughwujowhovwo, has dumped the party for the all Progressives Congress citing petty and selfish politics by some of the leaders as reason, warning that the PDP was crumbling in Udu but the governor was not being told the truth. Former Chairman of the PDP, Henry Ughwujowhovwo, in his statement during his formal declaration for the APC, disclosed that by 2023, those who own the land shall prove their strength by the votes they could muster, stressing that there will be no reason to boast but action will speak louder than words. He disclosed further that those itching to dump the PDP in Udu are more than faithful party members because ‘’political patronage now revolves around one circle. By 2023, those in that circle, who takes all the benefits of the struggle after general elections would go and prove their strength in the field. The era of ‘Monkey dey work, bamboo dey chop’ is over. Many of those who worked for the party are being treated like outcast while those who worked against the party in 2019 are being rewarded by the masters who have link to the governor. Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Igbos Haven’t Committed Any Crime To Be Denied Presidency In… ‘’The governor believe all sort of lies being fed him with and 2023 will be the year of retribution for those who do not wish their neighbours well. The pettiness in lopsided political appointments and patronages by the Okowa-led Delta state government and other manners of vindictive political wickedness being demonstrated in the land shall haunt the PDP in the years to come’’, Henry Ughujowhovwo declared. Receiving the decampees into the APC family on Sunday, Honourable Federal Commissioner, National Population Commission, Chief Richard Odibo expressed joy with the defection of the PDP Chairman in Egini Community, stressing that he was going to ensure the new members got their dues in the APC. Chief Odibo called on others who are still in the PDP and other political parties to join the APC so they could be part of the push to rout PDP from the state in 2023 and consolidate on the Buhari’s administration in 2023. Mr Henry Ughujowhovwo, the former PDP Chairman and foremost grassroot mobilizer, was received into the APC family alongside 0ver 100 other PDP members who resolved to dump the umbrella for the broom so as to join hands with the APC to consolidate the progressives ahead of 2023.