SULAIMAN FASASI ; ISAAC ASABOR ABEOKUTA / LAGOS – No fewer than 17 persons have been confirmed dead when a tanker with Dangote Flour inscrip­tion catches fire along the Lagos-Ibadan highway area of Ogun State. Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that the tanker sus­pected to be carrying Petro­leum products had a head-on collision with a Mazda bus marked, ZT 728 KLD. CSOs: Buhari’s Delay In Assenting To Electoral Act… Orientation: Call-Up-Letters Out On Sunday, COVID-19 Rapid… The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) confirmed that the accident happened around 5am on Friday, before Isara Bridge. Meanwhile, the manage­ment of Dangote Flour has said the trunk in question does not belong to them. In a statement signed by the Group Chief Branding And Communication Officer (Gcbco), Anthony Chiejina, it stated that the truck belongs to Olam. “Our attention has been drawn to some online media reports that a truck convey­ing petroleum product, which was involved in a fatal crash that claimed several lives, be­longs to Dangote Flour. “The truck bearing the logo of Dangote Flour was said to have been involved in an accident in Ogun State. POLL “However, contrary to a report by the Federal Road Safety Commission, the said truck does not belong to the Dangote Group. “It should be noted that Olam International Ltd, mak­ers of Crown Flour products, acquired Dangote Flour in 2019 in a widely publicised deal. The company now fully belongs to Olam. “The loss of lives in this instance is regrettable and saddening. The public is advised to take note of this clarification.” The spokesperson of the FRSC in Ogun, Florence Okpe, said 14 of the bodies were burnt beyond recogni­tion, adding that the FRSC was able to identify one man, one woman and a girl. “The total number of people involved is not ascer­tained, but a total of 17 bodies ( killed) have been identified. Drug Peddlers Beat Man Who Allegedly Invite NDLEA To Bunk Police Not To Blame For Fatal Accident In Ihiala -Anambra CP “1 male, 1 female, and 1 female child only have been identified, while others were burnt beyond recognition and no injury sustained,” Okpe said. “The suspected causes of the fatal crash were route vio­lation and dangerous driving, which resulted to head-on col­lision and fire outbreak. Meanwhile, the Ogun FRSC Sector Commander, Ahmed Umar, described the crash as an avoidable one with caution and obedience to traffic rules and regula­tions. Umar commiserated with the families of the victims, enjoining them to contact the FRSC office in Ogere for more information about the crash.