The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to urgently control population growth with policies necessary to secure a better world for future generations. It also urged the Federal Government to make concerted and conscious efforts to secure the future by increasing earnings and diversification of resources and focus more on non-oil sectors of the economy by adopting alternative sources of revenue to enable foreign inflow from oil earnings to go straight to the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) without affecting budget financing. It urged the Federal Government to secure approval from the National Assembly before counterbalancing with the country’s savings. JUST IN: Veteran Yoruba Actor, Tafa Oloyede Dies NECO Registrar Reveals How Borno Can Bridge Gaps In Unity… The House therefore mandated the Committee on Legislative Compliance to ensure implementation. These resolutions followed the adoption of a motion on the Need for the Federal Government to Save Funds For Future Generations moved by Hon. Chinedu B. Obidigwe. (APGA, Anambra). The House said that Nigeria’s Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) aims at saving money for future generations and providing stabilization of funds to defend the economy against commodity (oil) price shocks, and provide financing for badly needed infrastructures. The House noted that Nigeria with an estimated population of over 200 million, ranks 58 in SWF ranking which is four places lower than Angola – an oil-producing African country with a population of 32.87 million as of 2021 and has $3.2 billion in assets. The House said it was aware of this significant contrast to other oil producers such as Kuwait, which has $700 billion “Life After-Oil-Fund”, different from its $41.7 billion foreign reserves and Angola with $3.2 billion in assets both as of March 2021. POLL The House was concerned that a country such as Kuwait with a population of 4.2 million people and projected growth of 5.3 million by 2050, has a future fund of $700 billion to cater for their future population whereas Nigeria with an approximate population of over 200 million and an estimated population growth of 401 million people by 2050 has a Future Generations Fund of only $2.5 billion. The House is worried that the Federal Government has spent over N1.8 trillion on debts servicing in the first five months of the year 2021, representing approximately 98 percent of the total revenue generated in the same period.