Abuja – The presidency appears to be in dilemma over assenting to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2022, eleven days after receiving it. The re-amended 2010 Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2022 from the National Assembly was submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Babajide Omoworare, disclosed that President Buhari, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, and other stakeholders are in a crucial meeting on the content of the bill. Speaking on Thursday at a Policy Dialogue programme, organised by National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Omoworare, who said that the president is receiving consultations from the minister, added that “a very crucial consultation is going on between Mr. President, the Attorney- General and other critical stakeholders on the content of the bill for the required assent. “If not for this programme, I’m supposed to be at the very important meeting, believed to be the major determinant to the fate of the bill.” 2023 Presidency: Sanwo-Olu Urges APC Leaders To Unite For Tinubu God Is Raising Young Leaders To Rewrite Nigeria’s History – PFN… Omoworare was optimistic that the bill will be signed by the president since issues earlier raised by him in the 2021 edition, were elaborately addressed by both chambers of the National Assembly last month. Assuring Nigerians that the bill will most likely be assented to by the president, Omoworare said, “Personally, I think in few days’ time, Mr. President will do the needful since the most contentious aspect of the bill had been addressed in the reworked one transmitted to him on Monday, January 31, 2022. “Time as it is, is of essence but I believe that Mr. President will do the needful.” In his remarks at the occasion, the Director- General of NILDS, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman, said the Dialogue was convened in gaining insights from stakeholders into the issues likely to shape the conduct of political parties, political gladiators, contestants and other issues. Virtually all the discussants at the policy dialogue from the former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Attahiru Jega; Country representative of Westminster Foundation for Democracy, Adebowale Olorunmola, and the chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Media, Hon Benjamin Kalu, appealed to President Buhari to assent the bill without further Jega pointed out that no law or legislation is perfect but what is available now is good and manageable for the coming elections. POLL But the representative of INEC at the discourse, Professor Bolade Eyinla, stressed the need for something to be done urgently. According to him, to avoid the problem of working on electoral laws at the tail end of conducting elections, INEC should be allowed to drive the process as being done in Ghana. He said: “The situation at hand now is that roughly a year to general election, the anticipated laws are not yet approved, meaning that the extant one will be used aside the fact that the process has not enabled INEC to come up with clear cut guidelines for conduct of the elections.”