Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, on Friday, disclosed that the Kano – Kaduna standard gauge rail project is being presently funded through the budget as the loan for the project is yet to be concluded with the Chinese government. Amaechi, however, expressed optimism that if funded the project could still be completed within the 18 month stipulated timeline, insisting that the contractors must break the project into different gangs for easy completion. “Going by the way we are going if we find them the project contractors would complete the work within the 18 months timeline. But they must go by the conversation we had with them in the office which is that they must break this project into different gangs so that everybody is working at the same time and leaving at the same time. If they do that I am sure that before May 2023, you have commercial activities. Aisha Buhari, Dolapo Osinbajo, Ifeanyi Uba, Nollywood Stars Join… Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election When asked what if they failed to work according to the conversation, the Minister insisted they will, adding that is not a problem. On the accessibility of the stations, Amaechi said the stations were located with easy access of the people who are going to use it in mind, stressing that the reason for the construction of the rail project is essential for the movements of passengers and especially cargoes. “The most economic nerve center in Nigeria is Kano. Why this track is the most economically viable track is because of Kano and Lagos. The economic activities that take place in Kano can be conveyed to Lagos, vis a vis those who import from Lagos can also do the same thing. So it will create jobs, so the economic value here would be much more than it was before the construction” he said. The Minister further added that the project would also help decongest both Kaduna and Abuja, adding the workers can work in Abuja and live in Kano using the trains to go to work on a daily basis. He expressed satisfaction with the quality of work so far and commended TEAM, the consulting firm in charge of supervision of the project. POLL “I never denied that there are financial challenges and that is because of an economic downturn. The Chinese are not funding the way they used to find us. Now up till now, we are yet to conclude the loan on this project so we are funding this project from the budget. That is why when you asked the question about completion I was skeptical. I used the word if funded, we are putting pressure on all the necessary institutions that used to give us loans, hopefully, I don’t know whether before May we get enough money to complete this project, but currently, we are funding through the budget. We will approach the Ministry of Finance again to fund us within this period hoping that between now and May we should be able to get the loan” he added. He confirmed that government is currently in talks with Standard Chartered Bank for a loan. “We are negotiating with Standard Chartered Bank for a loan,” he said. On local content, Amaechi said that Government is encouraging not only the use of local materials but passing some the jobs to local contractors, Nigerians so that country would harness not only the economic benefits but also the financial benefits, stressing that it would make more sense if Nigerians are involved and are part of the process.