LAGOS  – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday dumped Por­tuguese Jose Paseiro for Austin Eguavoen, naming the Nigerian as Super Eagles interim manager while reconsti­tuting the team’s techni­cal crew. As expected, the foot­ball house drafted in for­mer Nigeria World Cup star and former U20 Boys’ Head Coach, Emmanuel Amuneke, as immediate assistant to Eguavoen. NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, in a statement on Monday, stated that the board of the NFF has approved the recommendation of its Technical and Develop­ment Committee retain­ing Augustine Eguavoen as Technical Director/ Technical Adviser (in­terim), while Emmanuel Amuneke becomes the Chief Coach of the Super Eagles. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… Hushpuppi: Nigeria, U.S. Discussing Extradition Of Abba Kyari —… Salisu Yusuf will be the second Assistant Coach/Chief Coach of the CHAN team and Jo­seph Yobo will be third Assistant. Aloysius Agu remains the Goalkeepers’ Trainer. The scribe, however, pleaded with Paseiro, saying, “We acknowledge and appreciate the inter­est that Mr. Jose Peseiro has shown in Nigerian football during our very cordial discussions and have absolutely no doubt about his capacity. “We believe that per­haps in the future, there could be an opportunity to work with him. How­ever, in view of the pos­itive performance of the Super Eagles at the just-concluded Africa Cup of Nations which has given hope to Nige­rians and boosted our confidence in the present coaching crew to qualify us for the World Cup in Qatar, we have decided to accept the recommenda­tion of the Technical and Development Committee to retain the Eguavoen-led coaching crew and strengthen it with the addition of Emmanuel Amuneke.” The reconstitution comes after the Super Eagles’ outing at the 33rd AFCON finals in Camer­oon, and ahead of the po­tentially explosive FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off round against the Black Stars of Ghana next month. Amuneke, one of the most garlanded footbal­lers to have come out of Nigeria, scored both goals that won Nigeria the 1994 AFCON final match against Zambia in Tunis, scored the goal that won Nigeria and Af­rica’s first Olympic foot­ball gold medal in 1996 and played in the 1994 and 1996 FIFA World Cup finals, scoring two goals in USA ’94. POLL As coach, the electrify­ing winger qualified Tan­zania for the 2019 AFCON in Egypt and led the Taifa Stars in the finals. He is a member of both the FIFA and CAF Technical Study Groups.