ISEGHE AJAYI It is only people that have defeatist attitude that easily give up on themselves financially, either due to the fact that they ventured into wrong investments or refused to learn from their financial past mistakes which certainly would have helped them to forge ahead. If you allow your past financial mistakes to determine your present and future financial life, there is no way, your earnings can be enhanced, but if you are optimistic and try as much as possible not to keep making same money blunders by working on your financial mindset, you are abound to experience financial freedom. Why Financial Literacy Is Crucial How To Advance Your Financial Life This Year It is undeniably true that there is no one upon the planet earth that has not made unintelligent money mistakes at one point or the other. It could be through falling for a scam which is the most rampant and easy way to lose all your money particularly if you are not careful and getting into too much debt. Whichever way, instead of feeling terrible about your money errors, why not move past the shame, learn from them and make up your mind not to repeat such mistakes again. And to overcome such, try to concentrate on how to rebuild your financial life by not allowing your previous errors that affected you adversely to hold you down. Do you know that with proper financial planning, discipline, prudence and motivation from good friends you can get your finances back on track? POLL That is why you need to have a positive mindset about your financial life if you really desire financial freedom and let go of your past money mistakes. The under-listed factors can help you to learn from your past money mistakes and get your finances back on track: Discuss The Errors You need to talk about what went wrong in your investment strategy especially to your associates who are personal finance experts to get over the shame that has consumed your financial life. Do you know that discussing your financial pains or problems with a close friend can lessen the burden and gives you the willpower to make a plan and reach your financial goals? What Next, Now That The Celebrations Are Over? The Need To Adhere To Your Christmas Budget Be Frugal Embrace a frugal lifestyle particularly if you are the type that does not know how to manage finances. Learn from previous financial lifestyle of extravagance to avoid repeating same mistakes. Besides, it would help you to make headway in your earnings and one better way of doing this is to have a spending plan – budget. Endeavour to be innovative if you truly crave for financial independence in this dire hard time. Make A Budget It is important you create a budget for proper tracking of your expenses and if peradventure, you do not have one, it is not too late! The best way to create and stick to your budget is to take a cursory look at what you consume in each category each month and make that your basic budget. Also, when you are building your budget, you want money allocated to each category to have a place to go so as not to have any left over when you are through. This signifies that money you put into savings is earmarked as one of the expenses on your budget. Your ability to spend within your budget will help you to rectify past financial mistakes. Be Truthful To Yourself One way to resolve financial problems is by being honest to yourself. Leaning on your relationships can also help keep you on track. Every single tough task becomes easier with the support of friends and family. So, it is imperative you share your goals with your friends that are honest, as there is no one better way to hold you liable and remind you of what you are labouring for than those you love, trust and reverence. Make Better Acquaintances Ensure you are in the company of good friends that are dynamic, innovative and have good sense of multiplying their earnings. If you have friends that are lazy and into shady businesses to earn their livelihood, there is no way you can come out from financial shame. Your attitude towards making money will definitely be negative as you may tend to follow that line. But if you have friends who are focused and vision-minded financially, their lifestyle will definitely influence you positively. That is why it is pertinent to get acquainted with friends who are trustworthy and who can help you to make positive financial choices that will give you financial rest. But in choosing your friends, you need to be very cautious so as not to fall again into wrong hands. Desist from friends who see debt as a way of life or survival! Try Not To Make The Same Mistake Avoid repeating the same financial errors that kept you in financial bondage if you do not want to be regarded as a ‘fool’. That is why it is critical you try as much as possible to evaluate your previous budget and financial lifestyle to know where you have got it wrong or missed it, to prevent such re-occurrence again. Stay Out Of Debts Make up your mind to stay out of debts especially if it affected your financial wellbeing previously. Getting debt or loan to cover your shame may be laudable but when paying back becomes a problem especially if the wherewithal is not just there, you need to learn and stay out of it. There is no point trying to fix your financial problems if you continually go into debts each month. A budget is very vital to all facets of your financial life especially if you firmly stick to it. Tell others what you have learned Teach others what you have learned from your previous mistakes and how the experience has helped your financial life positively. Do you know that your negative financial experience can be your biggest assets especially in the area of making more money? You can be a financial advisor or instructor to several people who do not even know how to enhance their financial life or confronted with similar financial issues.