The frontline gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progres­sives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Enugu State, Prince (Dr.) Jeff Nnamani has called on the National Assembly to consider an amendment to the electoral law to allow the Independent National Electoral Commis­sion (INEC) take over conduct of elections into the 774 Local Government Area Councils in Nigeria from the State Indepen­dent Electoral Commissions. This, according to him, is the only way to stem the ugly tide of arrested development in most states, deepen democracy and boost the confidence of the masses in democracy as truly a government of the people by the people and for the people. Dr. Jeff Nnamani, who spoke with journalists after voting at the Nvu Amakpu Polling Unit, Agbani Ward of Nkanu West Local Government Area of the State, expressed sadness at the conduct of the election by the Enugu State Electoral Commis­sion (ENSIEC) and the general voter apathy witnessed. Scarcity: NSCDC Threatens To Seal Filling Stations Hoarding Fuel… Electoral Act: President Buhari Institutionalising Credible… He said ENSIEC, like almost all the other state electoral bod­ies, is always at the mercy of the party in power, thereby incapa­ble of delivering on its mandate of organizing free and fair elec­tions that reflect the wishes of the people at the grassroots. According to him, “total ap­athy witnessed in grassroots elections is as a result of having statesconductlocalgovernment elections” Dr. Jeff said his confidence in INEC as a body that could conduct a credible grassroots election is underlined by elec­tions conducted by the body in the past in Rivers, Anambra (twice) and Edo States where the opposition triumphed over the ruling party. He also praised the APGA party’s committed polling agents and members in Enugu State for remaining steadfast and principled, telling them that their efforts would be rewarded in the coming 2023 elections de­spite the false claims by the par­ty in government that the state is a one-party state. He said APGA has shown that it could stand for and with the people of the state by serv­ing as a reliable and impeccable platform to promote grassroots development. POLL While condemning the pock­ets of violence that was reported from various polling stations in Enugu South and Nkanu West LGAs during Wednesday’s Lo­cal Government elections, the APGA guber frontliner called on Enugu people to remain peaceful, resolute and commit­ted to non-violence in future political engagements.