. Reveals Why He’s Vying For APC Chairmanship ABUJA – Senator Mohammed Sani Musa one of the leading aspirants for the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said he is in the race to return power to the Nigerian youths and lay the building blocks for the much elusive internal democracy in the ruling party. He said his aspiration for APC chair is inspired by the urgent need to overhaul the political system that has largely excluded the youth and vulnerable groups Fuel Subsidy Removal: Goodie Ibru Advocates Collaboration Of… Prepare To Tackle Challenges, Onyema, Air Peace Boss Urges… Musa who also is Chairman of Senate Services Committee said the antidote o the fledgling APC is to build it into a corporate entity that is self-sustaining and democratic. According to him “I want to make the Nigerian youths to own Nigerian politics, the time has come for a total overhaul of the political system. What I would do differently is to initiate a kind of new order in the APC, the first thing I would do as National Chairman is to bring the party to constitutionality. “All the things happening today are due to the fact that people are not following the rules and due process. If today I am the leader of APC I should be looking at faces, I should be able to look you in the eye and tell you the truth. Equity, justice and fairness should be the watchword” he added. “The political parties are supposed to groom leaders but are we grooming leaders in our various parties? Most of the political parties today instead of grooming leaders will wait until the election period and then they would groom thugs and thereby making our youths irrelevant. “I want to make the Nigerian youths own the Nigerian politics. The time has come, if countries that are more Democratic can give their political space to everyone why can’t we do the same thing. Why are we always putting burdens on our governors and elected officials to bring money to fund the party? That the party is broke. Political parties when you make them viable entities they should be able to stand on their own. They should be able to be self-sustaining” he added. POLL While he recognised the fact that political parties are not profit-making organizations Musa however opined that ”they should be able to make members that subscribe to be financial members. -‘ Today we are in the era of technology our political parties can make their own money without putting pressure on anybody to bring money. “The APC has over 40 million members according to our database, we will be able to make make our demography our strength, how we can do it is up to us which I would not want to disclose now so that people will not steal our ideas. “As National Chairman of the party, I will allow for internal democracy every member of the National Executive Council (NEC) would be given room to perform the functions of his office. We will go back to the drawing board and sit down with all the stakeholders and dialogue and people with superior arguments would be allowed to prevail. “The problems we have had is because people are not following the party’s constitution, people are not following the law and due process. We will reorganize the administrative and internal workings of the party and restructure our system to change from a situation where once one is elected he takes over everything to the detriment of other stakeholders that have helped to build the party. Thuggery Sponsor: Zulum Reads Riot Act to Politicians, Youths Jonathan Urges Leaders Not To Use Their Position To Oppress… “We need to rebuild the party together, the governors need us and we need the governors. So we must be able to work together to build the party. Don’t forget that the governors are a very strategic organ of the party that cannot be pushed over. Hence we must build cohesion and tolerance within all the organs of the party, where there is no cohesion it would be very difficult to reach an agreement.