LAGOS – The Executive Chairman of Ojodu Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Mr David Odunmbaku, has predicted that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will emerge the next president of Nigeria after the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure in 2023. Odunmbaku stated this when he received the Ojodu LCDA Wards’ Coordinators of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement in his office on Wednesday. While stating that Tinubu is the hope for a better Nigeria, the Council Boss assured the delegation of his total support in actualising the mission of Tinubu for President. Osun APC: Can Aregbesola Give Oyetola The Ambode Treatment ? Delta DC-2023’s Debacle On Search For Okowa’s… He, however, admonished the group to work as one and make sure everyone is involved in actualising the mission. “Thank you all for your efforts, anytime, any day, my door is open. We need all hands on deck, this is not about factions, it’s about our dear leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. There’s a big work ahead of us, I know you are all up to the task. “By God’s grace, come 2023, Asiwaju will become Nigeria President. ABAT movement is not a sectional work, it’s our work, we must all come together to actualise this dream,” he said. The council boss also praised Bola Tinubu leadership style, saying, “You all know the story of my father, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, and Asiwaju. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has touched so many lives directly or indirectly, so we must all work together to actualize this project.” Odunmbaku also used the medium to hint the group on the new polling units created by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), asserting that the essence of it is to alleviate voter apathy. POLL “We want you to educate residents on the voter’s cards transfer, creation of new polling units, INEC want to encourage and make it accessible for voters, the satellite will now stand as polling unit,” Odunmbaku added. In his remark, the LGA coordinator, Michael Akindele saI’d, “There is no going back on Asiwaju 2023. A task that must not fail, we can not wait for anybody to slow us down. What is important for us is to deliver Asiwaju come 2023.” Reverend Olasupo Ajayi, the Deputy Coordinator, thanked the council chairman for his encouragement. “We thank you for the encouragement you are giving us, you have made us know that the sky is not our limit, we assuring you that we’ll not let you down,” he said.