No fewer than four top members of the executive management of Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc including the former Managing Director have resigned their appointments from the company to join other insurance firms across the industry. Daily Independent gathered that the trio of Oyetunji Oshiyoye; Uyi Osagie; and Alfred Tabiti have left and have already secured employment in another insurance company. However, the company is yet to update its leadership team which still has the name of Oyetunji Oshiyoye, its former Chief Customer Officer on the team list. AXA Mansard Opens Another Office In Ibadan NCRIB President, Edu Highlights Attributes Of Leadership Oshiyoye is said to have already taken up an appointment with another firm. While Uyi Osagie was Chief Financial Officer of the company as at the time of his exit from Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc Alfred Tabiti was the Head, Bancassurance, Area Sales Manager, Head Retail Sales and Head Bancassurance Nigeria (Retail Distribution Channels) of the company. Also on the exit list is Sunkanmi Adekeye, the former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the underwriting firm. In a press release posted on the company’s website, Allianz Africa stated: “Allianz Africa has announced leadership changes at Allianz Nigeria. These changes are subject to the approvals of the local regulatory authorities. Adeolu Adewumi-Zer, currently the Regional Head of Mergers, Acquisitions and Transformation for Allianz Africa, has been nominated as the MD/CEO of Allianz Nigeria. She will succeed Sunkanmi Adekeye, previously MD/CEO of Allianz Nigeria and Owolabi Salami, previously Executive Director of the company. Owolabi Salami is retiring, and will join the board of Allianz Nigeria as a Non-Executive Director in order to continue his service to the company POLL Sunkanmi Adekeye is resigning to pursue other opportunities outside the Allianz Group; the company wishes him every success.” Coenraad Vrolijk, Regional CEO of Allianz Africa stated: “I would like to personally thank Owolabi for his service over the past 6 years and for his engagement throughout the acquisition and the integration of Ensure into the Allianz Group”. According the company, Adeolu in her previous role, drove one of the three pillars of Allianz’s growth strategy in Africa by pursuing a pipeline of merger and acquisition (M&A) opportunities in its priority markets. She held key executive positions within the Allianz Group, based in three different continents. Adeolu has worked since 2000 in global financial services across numerous mature and emerging markets, beginning her career as an Actuarial and International Benefits Consultant within the Aon Group. She was appointed the first female board member of Allianz Nigeria in July 2019. “Adeolu led the acquisition and integration of Ensure Insurance into the Allianz Group in 2018. This deep operational insight into the company, coupled with her close familiarity with its strategic direction from her time as a board member, is what makes her the right fit for the role. She will continue to build and transform our entity into one ready to secure the future of all our customers and partners in her home country of Nigeria”, said Coenraad Vrolijk, Regional CEO of Allianz Africa.