LAGOS – The Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB), the umbrella association of marketing communications, public relations, media and creative professionals working in Nigeria’s banking sector, has paid glowing tributes to veteran public relations guru and founding president of the association, Mallam Kabir Dangogo, on his birthday today Monday, February 21, 2022. In a congratulatory and goodwill message to Mallam Dangogo, ACAMB eulogised him as the doyen of public relations in Nigeria, one of the most-celebrated communication strategists, a through-bred professional and an astute manager whose brilliant exploits across the broad spectrum of communication are legendary and unparalleled. Mr. Rasheed Bolarinwa, President of ACAMB, in moving tributes on behalf of the executives and members of the association, commended the visionary and leadership qualities of the veteran communicator and other founding members of ACAMB, saying their foresight, 26 years ago, gave birth to what has become a formidable professional platform in the Nigerian banking industry today. Global Trade Hits Record High Of $28.5trn In 2021, But Likely To… Why Q4:2021 GDP Growth Momentum Defies Pandemic Mutation –… ‘‘Mallam Kabiru Dangogo is a living legend. He is and remains a respected and go-to authority on public relations as far as the theory and practice of financial public relations and reputation management as a discipline, is concerned, not only in Nigeria but globally. “During his decades of professional practice, he made indelible contributions and footprints on the broad spectrum of communications and the banking industry and made his way to the Senior management team,’’ he said. Bolarinwa further described the celebrant as a shining light worthy of emulation by the upcoming generation of communicators, even as he promised that the present executives of ACAMB under his leadership would do everything possible to preserve the legacy and milestones which Mallam bequeathed as the pioneer president of the association.