Sin causes defilement. God has given us some clear command which we must obey. For our bodies to remain undefiled, genuine conversion is needed. Achieving purity is by the work of the Holy Ghost. One’s religiousness, beliefs, One’s regularity and punctuality in the house of God don’t assert one is right with God, but one’s behavior, conduct and adherence to command, determines if one’s life is defiled, or not, before God. Your actions do not declare you are free from blemish, but your relationship with God will establish that. Our God is holy. He has moral demands that cannot be satisfied by sinners. Our thoughts must be subjected to Christ, so they don’t defile our spirits and bodies. Thoughts that turns one mind against God, thoughts of ingratitude towards God, thoughts of hatred or hostility towards your neighbor or fellow believers, thoughts of immorality, can defile the body. St. Paul’s Church, Ebute-Metta, Battles Land Grabbers The Man Called Bartimaeus (I) Psalm 24:3-4 says, “Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully”. Seeking after wizards defiles. “Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God” (Leviticus 19:31). Those who consult the devil in lieu of God in time of need, are defiled and cannot stand before God. Making and serving idols is abominable before God. God warned the children of Israel to work in his statutes, keep and do his judgements, but they despised his judgements and walked in the sinful ways of their fathers, by defiling themselves with idols. Their disobedience brought God’s wrath upon them. It’s better to walk with God uprightly in righteousness, because it can take grace to survive God’s indignation. “Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hast caused thy days to draw near, and art come even unto thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a mocking to all countries” (Ezekiel 22:4). Idol worship is forbidden for anyone who wants to make heaven. “But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death” (Revelation 21:8). If you are a murderer, your hands are defiled with blood. Those who love injustice and lies, have their part in the lake of fire. Justifying the wicked and condemning the righteous is an abomination before God. Those who conceive mischief, trust in vanity, and bring forth iniquity cannot see God. A land or nation can be defiled if its inhabitants dwell in iniquity. The people of Sodom and Gomorrah defiled their land with sexual immorality and perversion. They practiced homosexuality. They were arrogant, unconcerned, overfed, they never helped the needy and the poor. They did all detestable things before God. The fury of God came upon them. Fiery Sulphur was poured on the cities, which completely destroyed them, and the inhabitants of these cities. Most of the natural disasters we hear of today are all because the land has been defiled. When men go against God’s laid down principles, nature reacts. If you are defiled, the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse you from all filth, every form of wickedness, and unrighteousness. All you need is to ask for God’s forgiveness and mercy. Spending more time communing with God through the bible is essential. As children of God, we must not joke with prayer and bible study, so we can experience God’s revival in our lives. There’s is no shortcut or easy method than this.