A 19-year-old student, Fadlullah Agboluaje, who recently died in Ukraine, was said to have experienced extreme cold before he passed on. Agbolauje’s older sister, Rofeeha had raised the alarm on social media that her family was informed that he was found dead in his room hours after he arrived at the Lviv Polytechnic National University, Ukraine. In a series of tweets shared by Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) on Tuesday, the Chairman/CEO Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, paid a condolence visit to the family of Agboluaje. Abike Dabiri Pays Condolence Visit To Family Of 19-year-old… Family Seeks Justice After A Nigerian Student Died A Day After… Nigerians have reacted to this sad news in different ways. Read what they wrote below, Djfalone wrote, “This doesn’t add up . The hotel doesn’t have a heater ? You can freeze to death in a hotel ?? Or he failed to wear appropriate clothing and went out in the cold ?” @rugee__ wrote, “There could’ve been mold in the room.” @toby.gram wrote, “So sad, I sympathise with the family of the deceased young man. Countries like Ukraine and a couple of others avoid them like plague!” @1809_boe wrote, “Whatever happened to getting an independent autopsy done? I’m sure he was smart enough to seek shelter elsewhere if in fact the room temperature was that low…shame for the photo op!” POLL @simplyabde wrote, “No be every abroad be better life. Imagine the state of accommodation given to him after paying millions!!! Kai our country has failed us.” @christianeabe wrote, “That room has mold in it, that could have also contributed to his death. Mold is dangerous.” @justtope wrote, “The school authority is responsible for his death! They know how nonchalant the Nigeria authority is, & they know they will get away with anything they did. All I see is the school silencing him so as not to provide a they feel is necessary for his comfortability during his studies…RIP to the dead. Is Ukraine a country in the first place? How do people go to places like that for studies deadbeat country?”