LAGOS – The Socio-Econom­ic Rights and Ac­countability Project (SERAP) has filed a lawsuit against President Muhammadu Buhari over the failure to promptly and thor­oughly probe allegations of systemic mismanagement of security votes by state gover­nors since 1999, and to ensure the prosecution of those sus­pected to be responsible. The suit followed Buhari’s 2022 New Year Message in which he raised concerns about the persistent insecurity in certain parts of the country, and his promise in his 2015 in­augural speech to check gross corruption and ensure that there is accountability at all levels of government in the country. SERAP in the suit num­ber FHC/L/CS/189/2022 filed last week at the Federal High Court in Lagos is seeking: “an order of mandamus to compel President Buhari to direct Mr. Abubakar Malami SAN, At­torney General of the Federa­tion and Minister of Justice to probe allegations of systemic mismanagement of security votes by state governors since 1999. Easter Celebrations: JAMB Reschedules Mock-UTME, Registers… 2023 Election: Atiku Cannot Be Trusted – Afegbua Blows Hot SERAP is also seeking an order of mandamus to com­pel President Buhari to direct Mr. Abubakar Malami SAN to prosecute anyone suspected to be responsible, as appropriate; if there is sufficient admissible evidence, and to recover any mismanaged public funds. In the suit, SERAP is ar­guing that, “Compelling the Federal Government to probe the spending of security votes since 1999 would ensure ac­countability, and improve the ability of the government to deliver on the promises to en­sure the security of Nigerians, and to keep them safe.” SERAP is also arguing that, “It is in the interest of justice to grant this application. End­ing impunity for allegations of corruption in the spending of security votes and recovering any mismanaged public funds are matters of public interest.” SERAP is arguing that, “the responsibility to guarantee and ensure the security and welfare of the Nigerian people is interlinked with the respon­sibility under Section 15(5) of the Nigerian Constitution, 1999 [as amended] to ‘abolish all corrupt practices and abuse of office.’ This imposes a fun­damental obligation to ensure accountability for the spend­ing of security votes by state governors.” According to SERAP, “The government has the primary and constitutional responsibil­ity to protect the lives and prop­erty of the Nigerian people. Section 14(2)(b) of the Nigeri­an Constitution provides that ‘the security and welfare of the people shall be the prima­ry purpose of government’.” POLL SERAP is further arguing that, “Pervasive tendency by public officers since 1999 to regard or treat security votes given to them for security of the state as their personal enti­tlement or funds is antithetical to the Nigerian Constitution and international standards.” According to SERAP, “Secu­rity votes should be used for improving the security situa­tion in the states or returned to the public treasury.” 