ABUJA – President Muhammadu Bu­hari and Ethiopian Prime Minister, Abiy Ahmed, has met, just as stakeholders are wrapping up activities for the 35th Session of African Union Assembly of Heads of Authority and Govern­ment. At the meeting, both lead­ers deliberated on the rising spate of coups in Africa, agreeing that leaders of the continent must ensure that there is disincentives to conflicts and coups. They concurred that Af­rican growth and develop­ment will require strong, visionary leadership that caters for the needs of the people, and effectively strengthens institutions that encourage peaceful co-existence. Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari The meeting between both leaders held at the headquarters of the Afri­can Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Sunday. Buhari seized the forum to commend the efforts of the Prime Minister in main­taining peace and unity in his country, especially his dedica­tion to ensuring fairness and justice in development. According to Buhari, “You are leading a country that is large and diversified, just like Nigeria, and I know the sacrifices required to make desired impact, es­pecially in maintaining peace”. The Nigerian president also urged the Ethiopian PM to stay focused in keep­ing the country together, in spite of the difficulties, assuring that Nigeria will continue to support efforts in peaceful co-existence and unity. The president said Ahmed had provided strong leadership for the country, encouraging him to sustain the good work in ensuring even development. POLL Meanwhile, the Prime Minister lauded Buhari for support to the country over the years on national and personal endeavours, partic­ularly in encouraging unity and stability. Ahmed noted that the African continent had been slow in growth due to con­flicts, adding that the larger economies, like Nigeria and Ethiopia, should provide the leadership that will deepen progress and prosperity on the continent. The Prime Minister said the resurgence of coups on the continent could further weaken institutions and reverse the gains of democ­racy, appreciating President Buhari for his position on zero tolerance for military interference in governance. Ahmed concluded by in­sisting that collective and visionary leadership will move Africa forward. Recall that while the AU summit lasted in Ethiopia, issues around COVID-19 pandemic, insecurity and rising penchant for coups in Africa topped agenda for discussion among the conti­nent’s leaders. Despite N1bn Grant, Aerospace Varsity Yet To Take Off Six Years… Senegal Defeat Egypt, Win Africa Cup Of Nations As at the time of filing this report, Burkina-Faso, Mali and Guinea have fallen victims to coup, mainly or­chestrated by their military personnel.