LAGOS – The Executive Council of Ogun State has approved the appointment of Lawrence Jaiyeoba Adebajo as the new Orimolusi of Ijebu-Igbo effective 16th February, 2022. By this appointment, Oba Lawrence Jaiyeoba Adebajo has become a member of the Ijebu Traditional Council and a permanent member representing the Ijebu Traditional Council at the Ogun State Council of Obas. In a statement signed by Adesoji Adewuyi, Director, Chieftaincy Affairs, on behalf of the Permanent Secretary, Ogun State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, the State Government, on behalf of the good people of the entire State, congratulates the new Orimolusi and wish him good health, long life and many years of peaceful and prosperous reign. FCT Council Poll: Abuja Indigenes Commend INEC, Minister For… 2023: Group Gives Jite Brown 4-Week Ultimatum To Declare For… He said this development ends the over 27 years legal battle for the throne of The Orimolusi of Ijebu-Igbo. “From feelers, the town is already agog with celebrations awaiting the arrival of the Orimolusi of Ijebu-Igbo. Otunba Femi Dinah, The Chairman, Orimolusi Coronation Committee expressed satisfaction on the progress made so far and promised to release an all-encompassing Coronation anniversary programme shortly. He assured that the anniversary will be grand, considering the fact that the good people of Ijebu-Igbo had waiting so long for this positive development to happen. Oba Lawrence Jaiyeoba Adebajo can be described as a man of destiny. He is proudly from the male Royal lineage of Ojuromi from Oke Tako in Ijebu Igbo. Sired by parents, Prince Tanimowo Adebajo and Mama Safuratu Adebajo (Nee Aderibigbe/JB.King) from Atikori, he was born on the 11th day of November, 1953 in Fowoseje, a remote village in Ijebu Igbo. Young Prince Jayeoba started his elementary education at St. Bridget Catholic Primary School, Fowoseje and, at age twelve, completed his primary education with merits. POLL He enrolled at St Vincent Catholic Secondary Modern School, Oke Sopen, Ijebu Igbo in 1966 and equally completed his Modern School education in 1968. He was determined to, not only develop himself but, ensure he turned out to be a success in his life endeavours. He embarked on a lot of personal training and development exercises. He became dedicated towards achieving his goals and such dedication and relentlessness eventually paid off. Through his late father’s wise counsel, he started his career in Transportation business by joining a Transport Company located in Ibadan. The budding youngster, Prince Jayeoba performed so well, breaking records in his assigned duty that a Luxury Bus Transport Company from Lagos, ICOC poached and brought him to Lagos in February 15, 1975. 2023: APC Executives, Legislature, Chieftains Meet In Lagos To… Saraki Canvasses Release Of Ebonyi PDP Spokesman, Nwoba No doubt, Prince Jayeoba is a successful and accomplished entrepreneur who before the age of 40, built his houses in Aledo Oke Agbo Ijebu Igbo and in Okota Lagos. Prince Lawrence Jayeoba Adedeji Tanimowo Adebajo is a humble, noble, God-fearing and compassionate personality who is ready to help people rise above challenges. He has been able to assist many people through educational, business and financial support in various ways. He has helped people setup businesses and even stood as guarantors for those who needed huge financial assistance. However, fate has entrusted this exalted position on him and through faith he believes and states “if my ascension to the throne will uplift my dear town, Ijebu Igbo, so be it.” Prince Lawrence Jaiyeoba Adedeji Tanimowo Adebajo is married to Mrs. Bolanle Mary Adebajo, an Entrepreneur from Osan Ekiti, Moba Local Government of Ekiti State and they are blessed with children and grandchildren.