LAGOS  – The Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa), brainchild of Industrialist and founder of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, has formally handed 85 modern medical equipment to the Paediatric Department of the Gwarimpa General Hospital in complete fulfillment of the ASR Africa Health Systems Support grant awarded to the hospital in 2021. The scope of the grant included a fully equipped neonatal unit, equipment for 3 operating rooms, hospital ward monitors and beds as well as an ambulance. Ubon Udoh, MD/CEO of ASR Africa, while speaking during the formal handover, said that the formal handover of these items was a significant development as Gwarimpa General Hospital represents one of the largest public hospitals in the Abuja Metropolis catering to a high number of underserved communities and individuals. Nestlé Nigeria Moves To Expand Its  Rural Women Empowerment… ACAMB Celebrates Pioneer President, Veteran Dangogo On His… According to him, ASR Africa as well as the chairman, Abdul Samad Rabiu, are passionate about Women and Child Health development, hence the decision to support the overhaul of the neonatal unit and provide new, modern equipment to assist healthcare delivery at the hospital. Ubon also hoped that the hospital will put the newly purchased equipment to good use in tackling maternal and neonatal mortality rates within its catchment areas. Mr Udoh also announced that ASR Africa would adopt the neonatal ward going forward. Dr Mohammed Kawu, Executive Secretary, Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), in the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), while receiving the equipment on behalf of the hospital, commended ASR Africa for the gesture. “What you have done here goes to show you are truly committed to social development and we are grateful to Alhaji Abdul Samad Rabiu and ASR Africa. With the quality of medical equipment donated, this is presently the most modern and best equipped neonatal unit in the FCT”, he said. POLL ASR Africa, in a related development, also donated a fully equipped point-of-care laboratory, an ambulance, and some other medical equipment to the recently opened Capital Health Surgical Centre in Abuja.