LAGOS  – Air Peace has denied the claim that it “disrespected” Aminu Ade Bayero, the Emir of Kano, saying its action was geared to­wards protecting the name and image of the paramount ruler. Recall that Prince Isa Bay­ero, the brother to the emir had on Thursday, petitioned Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-Gen­eral of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), accused Air Peace of disre­specting the emir over delayed arrival to the airport, which he alleged was caused by Air Peace. Bayero had said that the Emir and his other nine entou­rage team had arrived Lagos from Banjul, Gambia aboard Air Peace flight, which was de­layed for about an hour. Scarcity: NSCDC Threatens To Seal Filling Stations Hoarding Fuel… APGA Governorship Aspirant Calls For Scrapping Of State… He said this led to the late ar­rival of the emir at the check-in counter of Air Peace to Kano same day, while all entreaties to the management of the airline to delay the flight failed. He had said that the team ar­rived at the terminal 30 minutes before take-off. But, Mrs. Toyin Olajide, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Air Peace insisted that the air­line refused to stop and delay the aircraft in order to prevent uproar among the passengers. “If we had agreed to stop and delay an aircraft, already set to take-off, for another one hour only for the doors to be opened and the Emir to walk in, there would have been a very serious uproar in the media nationwide against both the airline and the Emir. This we pleaded with Isa Bayero to understand, but he refused to accept. “How could Isa Bayero want the management of Air Peace to stop and delay a fully boarded plane with doors already shut and aircraft already moving, while our respected Emir and eight others in his entourage, including Isa Bayero, were still at the international wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos after arriving from Ban­jul?” she queried. POLL Olajide emphasised that from the telephone log evidence on the phone of Allen Onyema, the Chairman, Air Peace, Mr. Isa Bayero had called the for­mer at about 5.52am, at a time he was still sleeping. She stated that from the same log, it could be seen that Isa called him again at 5.59am, which woke up the Chairman and on seeing that it was Isa Bayero calling, he picked the call. Isa, according to her, told On­yema that he and the Emir of Kano had just landed the Mur­tala Mohammed International Airport Lagos from Banjul, Gambia and would be proceed­ing to Kano same morning. “He told the Chairman to delay our first flight of the day, the 6:15 am Lagos-Kano flight for him and the Emir with an­other eight persons.” She declared as untrue the allegation that Onyema re­fused flatly to delay the flight, stressing that he told Isa to give him a few minutes to call the airport to find out the status of the flight. LASUST Will Be Best Varsity Of Choice, Sanwo-Olu Assures… Confusion In AIB As Ministry Compels Staff Relocation To Abuja Olajide explained that On­yema immediately put a call through to her and intimated her with the request. According to her, she quick­ly called the local airport, but was told that the aircraft had since finished boarding and was almost taxing out. She added; “I quickly called Mr. Isa Bayero with this infor­mation and I expressed our desire to put him, their entou­rage and the Emir of Kano on our 7.00a.m Lagos- Abuja flight and that on landing in Abuja, we would then put him on our flight going to Kano at no cost to them. “Mr. Isa Bayero refused this offer; he insisted that the already taxing aircraft should be stopped and delayed until the Emir and the other eight persons arrive from the inter­national airport. “At this point, as stated earli­er, Isa Bayero and the Emir of Kano had just landed at the in­ ternational wing of the airport, this means they would still need to go through Immigration, get their baggage and, of course, clear with Customs before en­tering the morning Lagos traf­fic to get to the local wing of the airport.” She said this would have meant that the passengers in the plane ready to depart would have to wait in the plane for nothing less than an hour. Olajide explained further that the airline took the decision in order to defend the image of Emir of Kano and not as an in­sult as insinuated by Isa Bayero. She emphasised that after explaining this to Isa Bayero, he threatened to incite the people of Kano against the airline, if the flight was not stopped. She posited that the emir would have been offended to know that a flight already go­ing was stopped and delayed for over one hour for him, insisting that the emir would never have supported that publication.