ISEGHE AJAYI If you really desire to experience financial peace of mind in a distressed economy like ours, there is need to think outside the box especially on how to up your finances to remain afloat or meet your basic obligations. Survival is now a herculean task for nearly everyone regardless of the social status but much more difficult for the common folks especially those who have lost their means of livelihood. The Need To Learn From Your Financial Errors Why Financial Literacy Is Crucial It is imperative not to rely on a particular source of income in these dire hard times where inflation has made value of Naira worthless. There is no way a source of income will give you financial peace of mind especially if your monthly earnings is nothing to write home-about and irregular. The unending rise in the prices of commodities occasioned by increased inflation has and will keep on having an unpleasant effect on the standard of living of the populace. And one way to beat inflation is to multiply your financial horizon and invest appropriately. That is why it will do you real good to consider the need to engage in passive income as another means of augmenting your earnings particularly if you actually desire to afford the basic necessities of life for yourself and family. Likewise, your financial respect if peradventure you suffer a job loss. It will interest you to know that passive income is one of the most money-making and valuable investment one can really take on in this harsh present economy. POLL Do you know that there is a no way your monthly-take home can guarantee you financial independence if you refuse to boost your earnings? What is Passive Income? Passive income is that money you earn without having to do much work. It also signifies how you unfasten your expertise to earn from the time that you do have in a day. With passive income you can make money while you are asleep or awake. Besides, it is to a certain extent, one of the most vital ways the rich get richer. Although, there are different residual income opportunities that entail less work than others for that of most passive income ideas, you need to put in some effort at the onset. But the amazing thing about it is that no matter the amount of efforts you put forth at the beginning, later down the line, you will start to yield fruitful results even with less work or minimum effort. You Need To Set Attainable Financial Goals This New Year What Next, Now That The Celebrations Are Over? Passive income if well pursued will make you to be financially independent such that you are not scared of the rainy day or losing your job. If the only way you have to make money is to go to the office, then, you will never be able to quit let alone getting an extra means of survival through passive income. Passive income is not reliant on how many hours you work as once your income stream is set up, you can make money with little work needed to sustain it. The under listed factors will assist you to see the need to take on passive income: Steady Flow Of Income With passive income, you are not scared of financial storms that come your way; it could be in the form of job loss or emergency occurrences which make people without the required wherewithal run helter skelter for financial assistance but that is not your case because you are financially prepared to weather the financial storms through having other sources of income. Do you know that if you can count on money coming in without you having to work for every kobo, then financial stability is sure as the more of that money that comes in, the more confident and stable you will feel in your finances? Freedom Of Time Time is our greatest asset; it waits for nobody and as such far more valuable than money. Money can be spent and earned but time can only be used just once. Remember, once that time is passed, it cannot be regained. That is why passive income is imperative because it gives you freedom of time, signifying that you have the dexterity that comes along with not having to struggle to make ends meet at the end of the month. As long as you can ensure that your passive income exceed your monthly expenses, you are at liberty to spend your time as you choose. You can also engage in work connected to creating extra passive-income streams of revenue. The choice is yours. You have the freedom to choose because you have the freedom of time, which passive income is all about! Assuage Worries There is nothing worse than having the pressure that comes with inability to pay up your monthly bills; it will surely give you stress, fear and anxiety especially if you are a paid employee, meaning you have to try as much as possible minimise cost to live within your income. Passive income assists to assuage all of these worries because you are not afraid of losing your job or being the consequence of corporate-downsising. When you do not have to be troubled so much about looming financial disaster, not only do you feel better psychologically and emotionally, but also transform into physical liveliness as you have more strength and motivation to go out there to get extra earnings. Sure Of Survival Having passive income means that you do not need to rely on your monthly salary because you are sure of your survival even if there is delay in salary payment. You are not scared of your regular monthly bills that you need to take care of since you have other sources of income. Passive income gives you the determination to achieve your set goals and reach financial independence. Freedom To Pursue Your Passion Passive income gives you the freedom to pursue the skills or career you love doing the most or passionate about since you are not restricted by time and location. It also enables you to generate an active income by following your heart even while working as a paid employee. Do you know that you are likely to make more money when you pursue that career you are passionate about vigorously rather than relying on that peanut you receive at the end of the month as salary? Freedom To Work Anywhere Passive income permits you to live and work from wherever you desire. Since you do not have to constantly work in order to earn passive income, you also do not have to work from a precise location. Inasmuch as you are making enough passive income to fund your lifestyle, you can go to any location you wish to stay.