YENAGOA – Two weeks after fuel scarcity started, the Bayelsa State Government on Thursday set up a special monitoring team on the pricing and distribution of petroleum products in the state. The special team is made up of the Bayelsa State Petroleum Taskforce (BSPT), the Bayelsa Field Office of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), and the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN). The team also has the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Department of State Services (DSS), as well as the Petroleum Products Retail Outlets Owners Association of Nigeria (PETROAN) as members. Fuel Scarcity: Bayelsa Launches Special Team On Petroleum… FG Links Fuel Scarcity To Inspection Failure The state Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, while constituting the team at a critical stakeholders’ meeting in Yenagoa, on Thursday, said the government was taking every necessary step to end the acute shortage of fuel in the state as soon as possible. Ewhrudjakpo, in a statement, charged the team to monitor the activities of all the petrol filling stations in the state and ensure that none of them sells above N230, pending when supply sufficiency is restored. He also directed the team to enforce compliance with the government’s directive that no filling station should sell more than 25 litres to individual buyers in jerrycans until normalcy is restored in fuel supply. Ewhrudjakpo, who lamented that Bayelsa has the least allocation of petrol in the country from the NNPC, pointed out that making Bayelsa pay the same amount as other states for fuel subsidy amounts to robbing Peter to pay Paul. He, therefore, urged the Federal Government to stop the injustice by ensuring that each state pays for fuel subsidy based on the volume of petrol consumed or the number of trucks allocated to it every month. POLL In the absence of fuel depots, which badly affects the fuel supply chain in the state, the deputy governor said the government would look at the possibility of establishing at least one depot through a public-private partnership initiative. The Operations Controller of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission, Bayelsa Field office, Ogbe Nicholas, urged the public not to panic, saying that there would be a normal fuel supply soon as there is enough fuel now at the loading jetties. He said the commission’s office in Bayelsa had already placed an order for 10 trucks of petrol from the Warri and Port Harcourt depots, stressing that the absence of any depot in the state adversely affects the supply of the product thereby leaving the state at the mercy of oil marketers. Also speaking, the Chairman of the State Petroleum Taskforce, Richman Samuel, said the taskforce had been working round the clock alongside other stakeholders, including the NUPRC and the oil marketers, to ensure that the situation was brought under control. Samuel disclosed that through effective negotiation, fuel price in the wake of the current scarcity was brought down from N300 to N230 per litre in the state and appealed to the marketers to maintain the negotiated price. Inclusive Prosperity, Challenge To Governance In Nigeria –… Fuel Adulteration: NNPC Apologises To Nigerians Again, Says We… On his part, the state Chairman of PETROAN, Dukumor Taremi-West, while assuring that marketers would not take undue advantage of petrol consumers in the state, stressed the need for relevant agencies to query the whereabouts of the two truckloads of petrol allocated to the NNPC Floating Station at Nembe.