LAGOS – Industry experts have described the claims and denials arising from the recent importation of toxic fuel into the country as indications of possible cover-up. Sources told Sunday Independent that an independent probe was necessary to clarify how the adulterated fuel was brought into the country as some of the companies named by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) have denied the claim. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) had said his investigation revealed the presence of Methanol in four petrol cargoes imported by MRS, Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium, Oando, and Duke Oil. But MRS and Emadeb have refuted NNPC’s claims that they were among the four marketers that imported the bad fuel into the country. Green Energy Perfect Plans To Commission LPG Extraction, Power… Mecho Autotech Raises $2.15m For Vehicle Maintenance, Repair… Partners in the Emadeb/ Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania- U Consortium which was listed among the companies by NNPC Limited, disowned Brittania-U, saying it was Brittania-U, rather than the consortium, that was involved. A statement released by the lead partner, Emadeb Energy Services, explained that importation of the contaminated PMS was executed by a member of the consortium, to wit: Brittania-U. It explained: “Therefore, the blanket claims made against the consortium by the NNPC are misleading and contradict the actual events that happened; they do not fully reflect and/or represent what transpired. “It is important to inform the public of these facts and provide clarifications relating to delivery of the said contaminated PMS to the country. “We also deem it necessary to protect our image as we have invested a lot in building our respective brands in the industry.” The company said that Brittania-U Nigeria Limited (Brittania-U) was the sole supplier of the 90,000MT of PMS delivered via MT Torm Hilde with laycan January 2 to 4, 2022. It added: “At the formation of the consortium in May 2021 by NNPC, Brittania- U refused to execute the Service and Consortium Agreement submitted to NNPC in fulfilment of the award of the DSDP Contract. “Emadeb, as lead of the consortium, engaged Brittania-U severally and they insisted on dealing with NNPC independently. NNPC was expressly notified about this by the other consortium members via a letter dated June 2, 2021.’’ On its part, MRS claimed that the petrol brought into its facilities was imported by Duke that works for the government. POLL Similarly, Brittania-U Consortium, one of the companies indicted by the Nigerian Nation Petroleum Company Limited for importing toxic fuel, said it was not involved in the act. The company disclaimed the NNPC’s report in documents seen by Sunday Independent in which the NNPC/NMDRA gave it a clean bill of health. Reviewing the claims and counter-claims, as well as the doubts that have arisen over these, an oil consultant, in a chat with Sunday Independent, noted that “it’s unfortunate that we’re confronted by a sea of doubts over this issue, but it ought not to be so except some cover- up is afoot.” According to him, “The relevant agencies should be accountable and nobody else – I mean, were approvals not made?” He urged the National Assembly to dig deeper into what he called “the chaos in the oil sector”. Another expert in the sector stressed that the situation called for a thorough investigation, saying it is a serious matter. “The toxic fuel importation is just one pointer to the translucent operations of the oil industry, especially from the NNPC’s end,” an industry source told Sunday Independent on Saturday. He added: “There is a need for an independent probe into this toxic import because it has done a lot of damage, and it is also time for us to erase all the murky details of oil importation once and for all. “We cannot be sure that the same thing or worse will not happen next time if an independent and thorough probe is not done now.” Nigerians are eager to know how the Federal Government would compensate motorists amid cries over damage to vehicles from the adulterated fuel.