Abuja – Last minute effort by the embattled former registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Professor Lawrence Adedibu Ojerinde, to enter a plea bargain with the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) on Wednesday failed to yield any meaningful result. Justice Obiorah Egwuatu of the Federal High Court, Abuja, had on Tuesday, given Prof. Ojerinde and ICPC 24 hours to agree on a position. However, at a resumed sitting on Wednesday, the court was told that the move by the former JAMB registrar to secure a plea bargain was unsuccessful. No reason was adduced in open court for the inability of Ojerinde to enter plea bargain. 2023: A’Ibom Stakeholders Urge Akpanudoedehe To Run For… Going Diabolical Will Not Save You, EFCC Warns Yahoo Boys However, a reliable source, who preferred anonymity, said the condition given by ICPC for the plea bargain to work out was too stringent for Ojerinde to accept, which made him to opt for full trial. ICPC is prosecuting Prof. Ojerinde over allegation of committing multiple frauds to the tune of N900 million while heading JAMB and the National Examination Council (NECO). He was arrested in Abuja, on March 15, 2021, by operatives of ICPC. On July 8, 2021, Ojerinde was arraigned before Justice Egwuatu on 18 counts charge marked FHC/ABJ/ CR/97/2021, but he pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against him by the Federal Government agency. Meanwhile, a witness called by ICPC has told the court that Ojerinde allegedly floated eight companies, purchased three buildings and bank shares through his cronies while holding public office. The companies, buildings (two duplexes and a bungalow) and bank shares were said to have been acquired by Ojerinde when he was JAMB registrar. The witness, Barrister Peter Iyiola Oyewole, was led in evidence by the ICPC lawyer, Mr. Ebenezer Sogunle. POLL The witness admitted that he incorporated the eight companies and purchased the three houses for Ojerinde as his client on oral and written instructions. The alleged companies are Oke-Afin Boys and Girls Hostel Limited, Sapati International School, Doyin Ogbohi Petroleum Limited, Cheng Marbles Limited, Standout Institute Limited, Trillion Learning Center Limited, Grace Petroleum Limited and Ifelodun Communications Limited. Certificates of incorporation for the companies and title documents of the three buildings allegedly purchased for the defendant in Abuja were tendered and admitted as exhibits by the court.