WARRI – Ahead of the 2023 General Election, a formidable political pressure group known as Consensus For Greater Udu (CGU), a Pro-PDP Group aimed at mobilizing support for the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Udu, Delta State has given the Udu Local Government Council Chairman, Chief Jite Brown, a four-week ultimatum to declare and publicly make his interest known to Udu People to run for Delta State House of Assembly, Udu Constituency come 2023. The group, gave the ultimatum during a meeting held in Ovwian upon a motion moved by Honourable Duke Ejiro Efegbere and seconded by Mr Lawson Agberia Oghoifo with hundreds of PDP faithful and leaders from the 10 Federal Wards of Udu including the representative of Non-Indigenes in Udu in attendance. Coordinator of the group, Mr Freeborn Ovwemejepha, in a statement shortly after the meeting, emphasized that the Ultimatum became imperative owing to the fact that Chief Jite Brown has served Udu satisfactorily as Council Chairman by attracting/influencing government projects and appointments to Udu whereas he is not a Commissioner and Member of the State Executive Council or a member of the State House of Assembly, noting that if voted as a member of the House, he will attract/influence many projects to Udu as a Constituency. Stop Chasing Shadows, Nnamdi Kanu Is Not Your Problem, Rita… FG Remains Committed To Road Infrastructure Development –… Ovwemejepha opined that Chief Jite Brown is the group’s consensus candidate and that having waited for too long for him to declare his intention to run, they have decided to call him out because ‘’we have started and will continue to go out there to canvass to the delegates on the need to vote for Chief Jite Brown for the greater interest of Udu Local Government,” adding that the group will mobilize and support the party in all her programs. While calling on Udu PDP to choose wisely, the group said Jite Brown has done so much for the PDP in Udu and that come 2023, he should be considered for the DTHA position. The group vowed to take their protest to Chief Jite Brown if he refuses to declare at the end of the four weeks ultimatum Ovwemejepha thanked the Governor of Delta State Sen. Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa for his development strides in Udu. He also thanked Olorogun Kingsley Esiso for the prudent management of the PDP in Delta State and as well as Hon David Siloko for showing capability in the way and manner, he has run the PDP in Udu. Leaders of the group include, Freeborn Ovwemejephan, Coordinator; Agberia Lawson Oghoifo, Assistant Coordinator; Ofuafo Ghavwan, Secretary; Lucky Esedafetoma, Treasurer, Collins Onoseme, Organizing Secretary, Hon Duke Efegbere, Financial Secretary and Ayeta Akpoviri, Youth Leader. Others are Rita Osuonegadi, Women Leader, Felix Okowvurie, Director of Social Media, John Kenairu, PRO; Suleiman Mustapha, Representative of Non-Indigene; Benson Karika, Chairman, BOT among others.