French President Emmanuel Macron’s recent visit to Moscow has prompted fears in Ukraine that its Western partners are maneuvering to force Kyiv into costly concessions to avoid war with Russia. Vadym Prystaiko, Kyiv’s ambassador to the U.K., told Newsweek in an interview at the Ukrainian embassy in London that the French president’s visit was not received well. “What bothers many Ukrainians is that he went to Moscow first, and then with prepared notes came to Ukraine,” Prystaiko said. Biden Urges American Citizens To Leave Ukraine Immediately Biden To Send Troops To Eastern Europe Amid Ukraine Diplomacy… While reaffirming Western opposition to more than 100,000 Russian troops massed around Ukraine’s borders, Macron also hinted that the West must consider Moscow’s concerns that Kyiv might one day be allowed to join NATO. The French leader also claimed to have secured a guarantee that Russia would not further escalate. This purported guarantee was later disputed by the Kremlin. “Macron is coming to Ukraine saying, ‘I brought peace,’ almost like Chamberlain, but in French,” Prystaiko—who previously served as Ukraine’s foreign minister—added, referring to former British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, vilified by for his appeasement of Adolf Hitler and Nazi Germany in the late-1930s. “There is no security for Europeans if there is no security for Russia,” Macron said, an apparent departure from the relatively unified Western position in support of Ukrainian sovereignty, defense of NATO’s open-door policy, and rejection of Russian demands. “Russia is European,” Macron said. “Whoever believes in Europe must know how to work with Russia and find the ways and the means to construct the European future among Europeans.” POLL French officials also briefed reporters on possible “Finlandization” for Ukraine—i.e. a state of enforced neutrality with limits on Kyiv’s armed forces and foreign policy independence. Macron denied using the term in his meeting with Putin, but the sudden appearance of the word in media reports has intensified Ukrainian fears of an imminent sell-out. Asked whether he thought Macron’s position in Moscow reflected that of other key NATO partners like the U.S. and Germany, Prystaiko replied: “I believe the simple answer is yes. I haven’t seen their papers. I don’t know the official position, how far they will go. But yes, that’s what will be very well met in many capitals, this position.” Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told a briefing on Thursday that there was “no betrayal” by Macron. Kuleba said: “The option is that someone will come and begin to impose something on us, so there will be no such conversation in principle. And yesterday there was a discussion of ideas, it was not a discussion of specific proposals.” France Weighs Cancelling Dakar Rally After Suspected Attack Ukraine Loses Soldier As Tensions With Russia Soar A spokesperson for Macron told Newsweek that the French president spoke with Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy twice by phone before his visit, and had been coordinating with other partners in the week leading up to his Moscow trip. They also said that Macron did not mention “Finlandization” and that the president stressed his continued support for NATO’s open-door policy. Western officials have repeatedly emphasized their solidarity with Ukraine and cooperation with Zelenskyy’s government in Kyiv. “Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine” has become a rallying cry, a response to any hint of divergence between the Western allies. “My problem is about what we are discussing, not how we are doing it: with Ukraine, without Ukraine,” Prystaiko said. “I would rephrase it: ‘With Ukraine, for Ukraine.’ If you want to talk for Ukraine, you try to help us, talk to us, coordinate with us.” In the absence of a new deal, those seeking to avoid war might settle for an old one. The Minsk protocols—two agreements signed in September 2014 and February 2015 under Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) supervision—stopped the intense fighting between Ukrainian and separatist forces in eastern Ukraine. Germany and France, in particular, appear to be placing their hopes on the Minsk agreements, which are deeply unpopular in Ukraine. Germany, France, Ukraine, and Russia form the Normandy Format, tasked with overseeing Minsk implementation. The agreements introduced de-escalation measures around the frozen front line in eastern Ukraine and set out a roadmap for the reabsorption of separatist-held areas into the Ukrainian state, albeit with as-yet-undefined new measures of autonomy. Both agreements were signed following significant Ukrainian battlefield defeats facilitated by Russian troops and equipment. Kyiv considers the Minsk deals unfit for purpose, deals signed under the barrels of Russian guns designed to formalize a Moscow-controlled Trojan Horse in eastern Ukraine. To date, there has been little progress on their implementation. Natalia Galibarenko, Ukraine’s ambassador to NATO, told Newsweek that Russia “would like to see Ukraine as a failed state, and to use the occupied territories in that sense is very good leverage for Putin.” “We welcome any peaceful initiatives, including from President Macron, but we will not allow anyone to impose any peace or any concessions which would be destructive for Ukraine,” Galibarenko added. “This position is very clear.” “We can meet in different formats. We can discuss how to better proceed with the implementation of the Minsk agreement. But any peace which will allow Ukraine to disintegrate and cease to exist as an integral state will not be supported by society.” Prystaiko, who was part of the Ukrainian team negotiating Minsk 2, argued for a new deal: “There is already a Minsk 2. Why not a Minsk 3? What’s wrong with that? “Maybe we won’t have the perfect solution in Minsk 3. Maybe we will be complaining again. But if you ask if there is a way: Yes, there is a way.” However, that is likely not possible now, Prystaiko added, without even considering Russian reluctance: “Not now when Macron is investing so much in it, and he has no time until his elections to create something as complicated as Minsk 3.”