★Say Company Got Exclusive Contract To Bring In Affected Product ★’We Met Every Required Specifications’, Brittania-U Insists ABUJA – It was a season of denials at the resumed investigative hearing of the House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), as all invited oil companies alleged to have played roles in the importation of fuel suspected to have been blended with methanol into Nigeria a fortnight ago denied responsibility, pointing accusing finger on Brittania-U as the sole importer of the said product. We’re Not Fraudulent– NLNG How Dangote Refinery Can Spur Nigeria’s Economic Recovery… While the importers: Emadeb/Hyde, AY Maikifi all claimed to have formed a consortium with Brittania-U to facilitate the effective operation of the Direct-sale, Direct-purchase scheme of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, now Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, they however informed the legislative panel on Tuesday that Britannia-U, alone got the contract to import from the originating port where the methanol-blended fuel was said to have come from. Addressing the panel on behalf of the consortium which include Brittania-U, Mr. Adebowale Olujimi applauded the NNPC of its foresight in putting together and supporting the consortium to manage the DSDP agreement which he said was geared towards eliminating product scarcity in the country. “Our Consortium would like to thank the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited for giving indigenous companies the opportunity to participate in the Direct Sale and Direct Purchase (DSDP) Contract; thereby enabling healthy and safe competition with other International trading companies and Refiners. Such encouragement has led to increase in business know-how and our Indigenous Oil and Gas Companies have truly shown capacity by delivering on all the mandates given by NNPC. “To ease challenges faced by the good citizens of Nigeria in accessing petroleum products, the Federal Government of Nigeria through her Regulatory body – NNPC awarded DSDP Contract to indigenous Companies to encourage delivery of petroleum product and crude lifting in equal commercial value. “Following the participation of the respective Companies in the 2021/2022 DSDP tender, NNPC formed our Consortium – Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi and Brittania-U with Emadeb as lead on May 7, 2021. The submission of an executed consortium agreement was one of the pre-requisites required by NNPC for the final award of the DSDP contract. POLL “On June 16, 2021, the Consortium members executed a consortium agreement which defined the rotational responsibilities of members, sequential alternate crude lifting/petroleum product delivery and indemnification of other members against liabilities, claims, etc., that may arise during a member’s underperformance or failure to perform under the DSDP contract. “The Consortium was awarded the DSDP contract on June 22, 2021 by NNPC. The delivery of the Petroleum, product and crude lifting have been done strictly on a rotational basis by the respective consortium members,” he said. He however stated that one of the parties in the contract, Brittania-U went outside the agreement and initiated communications with the NNPC without the knowledge of others, and without notifying the NNPC that it wasn’t representing the consortium, as a result of which it got the deal and imported the ill-fated product said to be laden with methanol. “Some of the Consortium members – Emadeb/Hyde and AY Maikifi immediately engaged a reputable international company for delivery of all PMS cargoes and prompt loading of crude oil; while Brittania-U chose to engage a different entity for her own supplies. “Brittania-U also preferred to liaise directly with NNPC and took responsibility for all her transactions without recourse to the other consortium members. All evidence to substantiate Brittania-U’s position are attached for references. Nigerian Content Retains $8bn Annually, Creates 50,000 Jobs ‘Nigeria’s Oil, Gas Sector Must Be Competitive In Global Market’ “The other consortium members – Emadeb/Hyde and AY Maikifi have successfully delivered 270,000 Metric Tonnes (MT) of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), while Brittania U also delivered 90,000MT PMS. “The PMS alleged to be Methanol-Blended was solely delivered by Brittania-U via MT Torm Hilde in January 2022. The other Consortium members – Emadeb/Hyde and AY Maikifi were not privy to the arrangements for the delivery of the aforementioned PMS and documentary evidence relating to the PMS. “We hereby state that the said importation of contaminated PMS was executed by a member of the consortium, to wit: Brittania-U. “Distinguished Hon. Members, it is worthy to mention that Brittania-U should be allowed to provide all answers to the controversy surrounding the importation of the PMS product,” he said. In her defence, the CEO of Brittania-U, Uju Ifejika said her company has done no wrong as it only brought in what was specified by the NNPC in the contract. She added that necessary quality control tests were carried out at every turn by NNPC, NMDPRA experts alongside those from her company with clearance certificates issued and the products successfully handed over to the NNPC. “We have a DSDP contract with NNPC and we have done DSDP with NNPC of two and a half years, and we have brought in 10 cargoes. This is our tenth cargo and none of our cargoes was off-spec. And this particular one was not off-spec. Before a cargo will come in, there will be a test at the port of loading, which they did at Antwerp. This time, our supplier, Petraco, did their sample at Antwerp and they gave us their sample result which we gave to NNPC, and NNPC confirmed it was okay. “The second point of test: the cargo arrived at offshore Lagos. The vessel tendered ‘Notice of Readiness’ of the vessel (that was) arriving. The NoR, we sent it to NNPC officially and they now appointed their inspector and the inspector then appointed his GMO. They went offshore to test the product. When they finished testing the product, there is a joint certificate given by GMO – that is NNPC-nominated – and our own. You can’t bring in the cargo without NNPC’s inspector jointly carrying out the initial test. And the test is here. We will present it to you. It met the specification,” she said. The committee led by Hon. Ahmad Abdullahi Gaya before adjourning the hearing stated that the panel would bring back the NNPC to shed more lights on the facts laid bare before it.