BAUCHI – The Centre for Information Technology and Development (CITAD has expressed concern over the misconceptions about the COVID-19 vaccine that are still prevalent in some states in the country, saying that the situation is risking efforts at addressing the pandemic. Daily Independent reports that the Centre for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) with support from MacArthur Foundation is implementing a “Public Education on COVID-19 Vaccine” in six states of the north. The states are Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kogi, Kano and Plateau. The project is aimed at creating awareness around COVID-19 vaccine with a view to getting acceptance and uptake of the vaccine by people. In all the six states CITAD works with partners from different backgrounds and professions to enlighten people on the need to take the vaccine. Drug Security: PSN Moves To Strengthen Local Capacity For… Bayelsa Health Insurance Scheme Handles 3,411 Surgical… According to a press statement issued and signed by the Coordinator Public Education on COVID-19 Vaccine Project, Hamza Ibrahim, which was made available to newsmen in Bauchi, having monitored COVID-19 vaccine administration in the six project states for the last two months, CITAD identified both general and specific issues that are hindering uptake of the vaccine. “It is unfortunate particularly at a time when new variants of the virus are emerging, we noticed that misinformation about COVID-19 vaccine is still prevalent. We also regret to note here that state governments are in some way aiding non-acceptance of the vaccine by not fully supporting the vaccination exercise where people who want to be vaccinated are required by the vaccination officials to make payments for their details to be captured and uploaded online on the national register, this we particularly found happening in Kogi state. “The issue of requesting people to make payments to be vaccinated will not only hamper the vaccination exercise but make people to stay away from taking the vaccine, and this potentially renders more people insecure. “Our observation also discovered a serious lack of coordination in the vaccine distribution by agencies responsible within the healthcare chain. While in Borno state people going for second doses for Astrazeneca and Moderna were told that the vaccines are not available, in Plateau state 45,288 doses of Pfizer had to be recalled after distribution to local communities for nearing expiration” “Again visits to some vaccination spots in Plateau indicate that unavailability of the vaccines. The lack of proper coordination is causing delay in accessing the vaccine by the vaccination spots, for example in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital, State Primary Health Development Agency supplies the vaccination centres with the vaccines without the involvement of the local government concerned. POLL “On exhaustion of the vaccines, the centres usually are forced into confusion as local government usually makes a case that they are supplied the vaccines by the SPHCDA, therefore they should not request from it. This effect of improper coordination put people on hold unnecessarily” The problems we have identified are no doubt hindrances to the COVID-19 vaccine uptake. The identified challenges if not addressed quickly will reinforce the misconception and fake news in circulation about the vaccine, and that will sabotage the efforts geared towards containing the virus and addressing the pandemic in general” Parts of the statement read The statement listed some challenges of the COVID 19 Vaccination to include Vaccine administrators demanding data payment from people who want to get vaccinated to upload their details on the online national register, Lack of will from top government officials-that further reinforces impression people have on the vaccine and lack of proper coordination in vaccine administration and distribution Other challenges according to the statement include absence of vaccination spots at gathering places such as Mosques, churches, banks, Vaccination spots mounted at distant locations, Lack of support of opinion leaders, Fear of expired vaccines in use, Inaccessibility of the vaccines in rural communities, Nonpayment of vaccine administrators’ allowances, Closure of some vaccination spots due to nonpayment of vaccine administrators, Lack cold storage facilities in remote communities and Lack of political will. In order to address the challenges, CITAD in the statement made the following recommendations which include, appealing to Kogi state governor to immediately put a stop to “pay to get vaccinated” by providing data and other form of supports vaccine administrators in the state, state governors concerned to as a matter of urgency work to address the problems identified and examine the vaccination channel in their separate states to have a broader view of the identified problems and other and deploy the needed mechanisms Online Grocery Shopping Key To E-commerce Future – Juliet… Ogun Introduces Digital Payment Platforms For Effective Waste… The organization also urged the public to disregard misconceptions and false narratives around COVID-19 and to get vaccinated just as it appealed to State Primary Healthcare Development Agencies in the six states to review their operation manual to ensure proper coordination for effective vaccination exercise.