LAGOS – As Nigerians march towards the 2023 general elections amidst insecurity and economic challenges, a female cleric, Revd. Dr. Grace Deh has commenced a 356-day prayer, praise and worship for God to heal the nation and prosper the people. Revd. Mrs Deh, the Presiding Minister, Altar of Praise Ministry, a non-denominational ministry, who spoke to Sunday Independent at the weekend, said the programme would be non-stop. She said the marathon programme, tagged ‘The Beginning of the New Jerusalem and the Restoration of the Tabernacle of David’, would be used to seek the face of God for the turn-around of the nation even as she maintained that the nation’s problems, though physical, had spiritual dimensions. BREAKING: Sanwo-Olu In LASU, Sings Praises Of Varsity [VIDEO] Constitution Review: Saraki Expresses Excitement, Praises State… According to her, the spiritual aspects of the nation’s challenges must be tackled by believers, no matter the nominations and religion, so that Nigeria as a country would witness a new dawn of peace, security and progress. Rev. Deh informed that the event, holding at the ministry’s Altar of Praise Tabernacle at No 2 Mosalasi Street, Off Fatai Popoola Street (Babameta) Aboro, Dalemo, Alakuko, Lagos, would feature attendees from all walks of life, not minding the faith they belonged, who she stressed would offer prayers, worship and praises to the Almighty God. Rev Deh stressed that the ministry’s mission had been the restoration of David’s Tabernacle throughout Nigerian, Africa and all corners of the earth. She said: “We are Children of God with the passion to have our father in heaven being praised and worshipped in every community throughout the earth, day and night. We are an End-Time movement, a resounding trumpet, preparing mankind for the coming in glory of our most beloved Jesus Christ.” “We have to offer a sacrifice of praises at the ‘Altar of Praise and Worship’ to honour God. Altar of Praise and Worship is a holy hill, where everything that has breath will come to offer the sacrifice of praise and worship 24/7 to God non-stop, day and night. By doing so, the will of the Lord will be done on earth as it is in heaven. POLL “The Tabernacle of David is being restored on earth. Worshippers in spirit and in truth are being gathered from the four comers of the world. Jesus is indeed coming. The New Jerusalem is dawning. “Nigerians from all walks of life should come and join us to sustain the heavenly lifestyle of praise and worship on the earth. “By His Mercy and Grace, our father has chosen Nigeria to host the first Altar of Praise Tabernacle, a place where His children will keep praising and worshipping Him 24/7 non-stop day and night. “King David was able to sustain continuous praise and worship to God day and night for 33 years in Jerusalem. Heaven is on the move. The old things are passing away fast. The ones who have ears shall hear and the ones who have eyes shall see. Heaven is calling you. “Support and volunteer to keep the Altar of Praise burning with the sacrifice of praise non-stop day and night on the earth. Our Father is coming in glory and His presence will fill the earth.” Rev Deh added that the ministry would also take out time during the period to celebrate the eighth anniversary of the ministry. She urged Nigerians to turn up to participate in the programme as it was designed for everyone no matter their time schedule, as the sessions would be ongoing non-stop for the whole of 2022