LAGOS  – Some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, loyal to Sen. Magnus Abe, have cried out, alleging that Ambassador Desmond Akawor, Rivers’ Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman has been con­niving with Senator Magnus Abe to destablise APC. The former loyalists in a statement signed by Tonte Amachree and Kelvin Oke­chukwu alleged that Akawor was in attendance at a meet­ing by the Abe group advising them on how to proceed with the suit against the APC and its former caretaker Chair­man, Isaac Ogbobula, as well as urging them to reassign the case to a new judge. “Our leaders are plotting with PDP to pull down our party through the courts. They accused the Abe group of conniving with the Rivers State Government and the PDP in the State to ensure that the party is left out of the 2023 ballot through the Courts as they did in 2019.” Orientation: Call-Up-Letters Out On Sunday, COVID-19 Rapid… Ikeja Golden Lions Club Applauded For Touching Lives Of… The group went further to call on the National lead­ership of the APC to act fast and call Sen. Abe and his group to order to avoid a sit­uation where the misfortune of the party in 2019 would be replicated in 2023. Tonte Amachree from Asa­ri-Toru Local Government Area APC Ward 7, and Kel­vin Okechukwu Obulo from Opobo-Nkoro APC Ward 4 who noted in the statement they jointly signed that they are members of the APC in Rivers State, and emphasised that they have been loyal and active members of the Magnus Abe group, said, “ Last week Thursday, we were called by Bethel Oko-Jaja and Ben Horsefall who are known leaders of the Magnus Abe group in Opobo/Nkoro and Asari-Toru Local Govern­ment Areas respectively, to a meeting where we would sign an affidavit to join in the suit against the APC in Rivers State and its former Caretaker Chairman, Isaac Ogbobula.” They added, “The meet­ing was held at the house of Worgu Boms, a former Attor­ney General of Rivers State under the administration of former Governor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, and the meeting had elite members of the Magnus Abe group like Golden Ben-Chioma and Worgu Boms in attendance.” They explained that the State PDP Chairman, Ambas­sador Desmond Akawor was also in that meeting and that he introduced himself and addressed them, advising the group on how to proceed in the case pending in Court. “Desmond Akawor as­sured us that the State govern­ment would ensure that the case is reassigned to a judge that would do our bidding af­ter the former Judge, Justice Minakiri recused himself from the suit,” it stated. POLL Presenting their case for redress, they asked, “Why would the Chairman of the opposition party be in our meeting?”, explaining that they had earlier believed that they were working to put the party back together, “but with this new development, we be­lieve otherwise.” The leaders expressed their worries, saying, “How can the leadership of the opposition PDP be in our midst, encour­aging us and even guiding us on how to pull down our own party from the inside? “ “Why would our people be conniving with the State government and the PDP to destroy our party in the guise of making things right?” Ostensibly to allow peace to reign, they disclosed that “We silently walked out of that devilish meeting with the realisation that we’ve been fooled all along.”