ABUJA – Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has declared that the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will not have a chance in the governorship election in Osun State come July 2022 if due consideration is given to the work his administration has done in the past three years. Speaking when he returned his Nomination form to the party’s National Secretariat, signifying his intention to seek reelection on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Gov Oyetola said he has done a lot in the area of Infrastructure, Economy, health, agriculture, welfare, empowerment and security of Osun people generally. This he said is despite the paucity of funds available to the state Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… Conte Hints At Surprise Tottenham Role For Dejan Kulusevski “In terms of welfare, we have been paying the salaries and pensions of the people on a monthly basis since the inception of this administration. We have actually supported our people in the areas of agriculture and health scheme for the less privileged and vulnerable taking care of the vulnerable using the social register. “In the area of health, we have revitalized not less than 320 primary health care centres spread across the state. The intention is to ensure that our people have access to health care by having at least a health care centre per ward. “In addition, we tried to ensure that we fixed all of the general hospitals in the state. We set up the health insurance scheme to take care of the vulnerable. This is to ensure no one in our state is denied access to quality health services because he or she does not have money. “In the area of infrastructure, we have fixed quite a number of roads. They are so many that I can’t be mentioning them but sometimes the roads have been deplorable for thirty years. We ensured we have motorable roads across the state. “We just constructed the first flyover in our state. Many roads in Ife, Ilesha and Ijesha axis have been fixed in addition we continued the projects that we inherited from my predecessor. POLL “In the area of economy, we have actually done so well by diversifying our economy in the areas of agriculture and tourism. In the area of agriculture, we supported farmers with seedlings, stems and loans. We also supported poultry farming through the agro-poultry, where we supported young farmers “In terms of support to artisans, we had a microcredit agency that disbursed loans to SMEs. In the area of security, we have invested so much to support security agencies and of course, the Amotekun security agency of the South-West states. Our state is about the most peaceful state in Nigeria. “In education, we did a lot of reforms in line with the demand. Very recently we deployed one thousand new teachers in our schools to ensure that pupils get access to quality education at primary and secondary levels.” Consequently, he said there is no magic the opposition can do to challenge his achievement adding that he has so far justified the mandate of the people, seeing it as the “opportunity of a lifetime to be given the mandate by the people serve them”.