LAGOS – Barely four days after Daily Independent raised the alarm over the planned forceful eviction of staff of Accident Investigation Bureau –Nigeria (AIB-N) from its office at the Murtala Muhammed Interna­tional Airport (MMIA), Lagos by the Ministry of Aviation, Saturday INDEPENDENT can reveal that the eviction exercise has begun. Investigation by Indepen­dent disclosed that the Admin­istrative Department of AIB-N on Wednesday issued an inter­nal memo to all the staff of the bureau to resume in Abuja on or before Monday, threatening that anyone that fails to comply would be sanctioned. As at Friday when our cor­respondent visited the agency, most of the staff of the bureau were seen outside the premises trying to move their personal and official belongings out of their offices. Scarcity: NSCDC Threatens To Seal Filling Stations Hoarding Fuel… APGA Governorship Aspirant Calls For Scrapping Of State… Some of the staff who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity be­cause they are not allowed to speak on the issue lamented that they were only given two working days to comply with the directive. One of them specifically wondered why the manage­ment would issue such a di­rective to the workers when relocation allowances had not been paid to any of the workers. The source also decried that over 90 percent of the workers were yet to collect January 2022 salaries and wondered where they would get the financial re­sources to relocate from. The source further alleged that their in-house unions may have compromised as none of them was willing to discuss the issue with the management Out of the 245 workers of AIB-N, no fewer than 100 of them are based in Lagos, which is the hub of aviation activities in Nigeria. POLL Just in 2021, Sen. Hadi Siri­ka, the Minister of Aviation had approved the engagement of 70 staff to the bureau, mainly from the Northern part of the country. The 70 staff were deployed to Aminu Kano International Airport (AKIA), Kano office of the bureau. The source said: “We on Wednesday received a letter from the admin department, which directed us to move to Abuja without prior notice. We were given till Monday to relocate to Abuja even when we don’t have a befitting office there and nothing is being said about our accommodation. And as we stand, no one is talking about relocation allowances to the workers. “Even, in the civil service rule, you can’t compel staff to relocate without the payment of relocation allowances. Staff are using their personal resources to relocate government proper­ty to Abuja.” Also, Comrade Frances Akinjole, the Deputy General Secretary, Air Transport Ser­vices Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) in an in­terview with our correspondent said the unions were not aware of the relocation of the staff. LASUST Will Be Best Varsity Of Choice, Sanwo-Olu Assures… Air Peace Debunks Disrespecting Emir Of Kano Also, Comrade Ocheme Aba, who confirmed the relocation order, however, said that some senior staff of the bureau, es­pecially those in the finance department had been paid re­location allowances since 2020, but refused to move. Aba also confirmed that most of the staff were yet to get January salaries, but said that the Ministry of Aviation prom­ised to pay them once they relo­cate to Abuja. He said: “Information I gathered is that some of the staff have been paid relocation allowances for some period now, but refused to move to Abuja. As you are aware, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) last week sent a letter to the agency that they wanted to demolish the building for apron for the new terminal at the La­gos Airport. “Because of this, the man­agement now said everyone should relocate to Abuja. Though, they have not been given relocation allowances, but the ministry promised that all their outstanding would be paid to them once they move.” Recall that Daily Indepen­dent had reported on Monday the projected N20 billion lost in investment following the two weeks relocation order issued to AIB-N and other companies at the Lagos Airport by FAAN. Apart from AIB-N, other pri­vate companies like Dominion, EvergreenAppleNigeria, Caver­ton and ExecuJet hangars were also issued the same two weeks ultimatumtorelocatetheiroffic­es from their present locations. Besides, it was learnt that some office complex of the Ni­gerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), the Federal Road Service Corps (FRSC) and the towing companies close to the AIB-N regional headquar­ters in Lagos may be affected by this order. For instance, the regional headquarters of AIB-N, which used to be its headquarters until mid-2020 when Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation compelled the bureau and other sister agencies to relocate their headquarters to Abuja, houses its office complex, Command & Control Centre, office of inves­tigators and Information Com­munication Technology (ICT) department.