Barely 24 hours after former Ekiti State Governor Segun Oni announced his defection to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) some aggrieved members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have ruled out any possible coalition with him. The Chairman of the Ekiti PDP Repositioning Group, Engr Alaba Agboola while reacting to Oni’s claim said there was nowhere the group met with Engr Oni, or his agents to discuss any grand coalition. The PDP chieftain cautioned Engineer Oni to desist from alleged namedropping vice that will only mislead the general public. Poor Attention To Youth Development Breeds Violence, Says… ICPC Secures Conviction Of Former Local Govt Chairman Agboola added that after the PDP governorship primary election that produced Hon Bisi Kolawole as the candidate of the party, groupings in the party seized to exist, a reason why one of the major arrowheads of the Repositioning Group, Otunba Yinka Akerele, is now the Director General of Bisi Kolawole Campaign Organization. Agboola said, “Members of the Ekiti PDP Repositioning Group are not political Harlots who move from parties to parties and as such cannot be part of any coalition with Oni, who obviously came to the PDP from the APC just for the purpose of using the PDP platform to contest the election. “Most importantly, two aspirants from the Repositioning Group, Otunba Yinka Akerele and Alhaji Lateef Ajijola, who contested the PDP primary election are full with the party’s candidate. “Therefore, members of the Repositioning Group are in PDP and in PDP will they remain and work with other members and supporters of the party to win the June 18 governorship election.” In his reaction the Ekiti SWAGA Coordinator, Bamigboye Adegoroye also described the claim by Oni as untrue. POLL He said: “That is not true. Members of SWAGA cannot form a coalition with Segun Oni to win any election. The Chairman of SWAGA in Ekiti State is Senator Tony Adeniyi, I am the coordinator of SWAGA in Ekiti State, So, nobody else could have moved SWAGA in Ekiti to anywhere. Nobody has that capacity. Segun Oni was in the PDP, Segun Oni has no capacity to talk about SWAGA at all. “He can’t talk about SWAGA at all, he left PDP. You can see the act of desperation. Last week, he (Segun Oni) was talking about APGA, this week, he is talking about SDP, maybe he will be talking about Labour Party next week. “That is the act of desperation of Segun Oni that we are talking about which people have to guard against. He should not be taken seriously. He sounds a little confused and so you don’t take him seriously,” Adegoroye said.