LAGOS – The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has lambasted the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for begging Lagos state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to come and get its governorship ticket for the 2023 general elections. Describing the PDP offer as a Greek gift, the APC in a statement by Seye Oladejo, its Publicity Secretary, said having performed creditably well to the admiration of Lagosians, the APC platform is still available for Sanwo-Olu to seek reelection if he so desires. “Our attention has been drawn to the offer of the opposition PDP’s gubernatorial ticket to the governor of Lagos State in the next national elections”. Sanwo-Olu Launches SWIP Initiative, As First Lady Urges… Ashafa Commiserates With Sanwo-Olu Over… While the thought of desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable, the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state of Lagos state PDP shouldn’t be lost on all and sundry”. “The platform that initially elected Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwoolu, having acknowledged his glowing performance across various sectors in his first term, is certainly still available to recontest for another term. His deft handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the successful execution of the all-encompassing THEMES agenda has endeared him to Lagosians as a compassionate, committed and the right leader for a time like this”. “He has, without doubt, redirected our state to the path of progress and restored our pride of place as the leading light in the federation. As the ruling party, we want to admonish the state governor to remain focused and undistracted from the onerous task of finishing strongly and fulfilling his part of the social contract with the good people of Lagos State”. POLL “We wish to warn the opposition PDP to desist from its age-long tactics of perennial attempts to destabilize the ruling party by the deliberate promotion of falsehood, blackmail and arms-twisting strategies for political advantage. While we sympathize with Lagos State PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it put its house in order to have a semblance of relevance”. “It’s pitiable that PDP could only think of fishing in the pool of capable talents in the APC while looking for people to offer its worthless electoral tickets. This underscores the lack of attraction in the PDP and the admittance of its usual Waterloo in the forthcoming elections”. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu hereby unequivocally rejects this Greek gift and hereby states that APC remains his party of choice in making his next political move which will be made known in due course to all and sundry”.