No fewer than 2,038 persons have died of air crashes in Nigeria since 1969, Akin Olateru, the Commissioner of Accident Investigation Bureau – Nigeria (AIB-N) has said. This is as the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) said that the agency would take a second look at the compensations for the families of Bellview and Sosoliso Airlines crashes of October 22, 2005 and December 10, 2005, respectively. FCT Council Polls’ Result Signposts PDP’s Rescue… EU Donates Additional Two Million Doses Of COVID-19 Vaccine To… Speaking on Sunday in Abuja at the International Day Commemorating Air Crash Victims and Their Families, Olateru regretted that such calamities were unnecessary. According to Olateru, 42 of the 2,038 dead were ground victims who didn’t board flights. Olateru insisted that aviation safety was important as lives are involved in every operation of an aircraft.He explained that a significant decrease in accident rates has been recorded through several activities including investigations and implementation of safety recommendations, voluntary safety reporting, safety cultures, and Safety Management Systems (SMS). Olateru emphasized that poor safety management in aviation not only damages the aircraft involved but could also cause the avoidable loss of human lives on-board the unfortunate aircraft and sometimes, on ground. He said: ”In Nigeria, from the year 1969 to 2022, a total of 2,038 (1996 onboard passengers and 42 on ground) lives have been lost to air crashes. POLL ”When an aircraft accident or serious incident occurs, it is always an unexpected and mostly fatal event that causes great distress and loss to the victims and their families.” Also, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, NCAA, said that the regulatory agency would open the books on the air accidents involving Bellview and Sosoliso Airlines. The families of the victims of the two air crashes are yet to be fully compensated over 16 years after the crashes. Nuhu said: ”The issue of compensation will be taken up by NCAA. However, it is very difficult to do now because the entities concerned are no longer in existence. But, having said that, the families of the victims deserve their compensations.” The International Day Commemorating Air Crash Victims and Their Families is recognised by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).