Road traffic managing agencies and their counterparts involved with environmental protection have been having running battles with roadside traders since the day of their creations with paltry results to show for their efforts owing to the recalcitrant nature of those involved, who would readily return to their trading spots by the roadside in matter of hours after being driven by the regulating agencies. Roadside and Street trading have for long been a major cause of traffic gridlock in major cities in the country, especially in Lagos and Ogun States generating divergence of opinions on what should be the response of the governments to it. Some are of the view that the government should not enforce a ban on street trading on the account that it is an integral part of African custom and tradition. Road Transport Union Or Cesspool Of Thugs, Extortionists In… Role Of Special Marshalls Enshrined In Act Establishing FRSC –… Roadside trading has become a common feature of urban centre roads, resulting in the narrowing, overcrowding, and outright barricading of roads in some places. Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps, LAGESC, as an agency of government was created to promote a cleaner, hygienic, aesthetically resplendent environment, and to prevent market women and traders generally from displaying their wares on the road, among other functions, has since the coming of CP Gbemisola Akinpelu (rtd), as the Corps Marshal rebranded its operations working in collaboration with sister agencies in the state to achieve its core mandate, especially in ridding the state of illegal trading activities on the roads. It however, appears as if the more the agency is making effort at curbing the menace of road side trading, it is gaining momentum as more people seem to be finding roadside trading to be quite lucrative. At every highway bus stop and adjoining roads to highways especially during traffic rush hours you will find people displaying wares, products and items of different types to potential customers, disregarding the risks, hazards, dangers and illegality associated with such ventures. Apparently unmindful of the risks associated with street trading and its menace to the environment, many are still participating in roadside merchandising in the Lagos metropolis. POLL Apart from the traffic jam caused by these traders on the road, there have been incidents where vehicles lost control and ran over the traders with many lives lost. The case of moving motorcycles, cars, and articulated vehicles running into traders by the roadside, killing and maiming them is a recurring decimal in places like Sango-Ota tollgate end of the lagos – Abeokuta expressway, Ojota, Ketu, Bariga, Somolu, Iyana iba, Ikeja along, Iyana Ipaja bus stops and other places of the state. Today, the menace of street trading has reached a frightening dimension because of the poor socio-economic status of many families in Nigeria. The economic problem in the country coupled with low patronage experienced by businesses and the epileptic pattern of salary payments by some state governments led many to relocate to Lagos purportedly in search of greener pastures leading many into such risky marketing strategies. In many neighbourhoods in Lagos such as the Apapa-Oshodi expressway, Ikorodu road, Agege Motor Road, Victoria Island, Ikoyi-Obalende, Ojuelegba-Stadium, Surulere, Oyingbo, Carter Bridge, Idumota, Oshodi, Ketu, Mile 12, third mainland Bridge, Cele, Iyana-Ipaja, Agbado, Oke-Odo, airport road, Ikeja, Abeokuta expressway, among others, have many traders displaying their wares on the roads. Police, VIS, TRACE To Synergise For Effective Field Operations… Why Transport Operators Clamour For U-Turn At Ota Tollgate Axis It can be argued that roadside trading absorbs unemployment, but this is at a cost higher and hazardous than its benefit. Street trading has a far reaching implication in terms of accidents which in most cases are fatal. It also manifests in the indiscriminate occupation of public space in defiance of formal planning and land use arrangements, has little regard for intrinsic beauty and suitability, causes impediments to free flow of pedestrian and motorised traffic and congested transportation networks. Street trading causes different problems such as encroachment on the right of way by the traders, traffic congestion as vehicles cannot pass smoothly on time and defacement of the aesthetic appearance of the street. As part of efforts to rid Lagos State of environmental nuisances and achieve the mandate of a Cleaner Lagos by Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) recently arrested not more than 89 offenders for hawking, cart pushing and street trading on the Lekki-Epe axis of the State in continuous operations along the axis. According to CP Gbemisola Akinpelu (rtd), Corps Marshal of the Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC), who made this disclosure, said, to her, “We have been getting reports about the nefarious activities of cart pushers removing manholes for sale, hawkers who disguise to rob motorists at night and street traders who disrupt the free flow of traffic, necessitating that we swing into action by arresting these people for prosecution”. Akinpelu bemoaned the activities of street traders, hawkers and cart-pushers stating that their activities are in contravention of the State’s Environmental laws 2017 whilst noting that the negative activities of cart-pushers who vandalise road infrastructure by removing manholes on State’s roads for sale and street traders who pose as security threats to Lagosians thereby making our roads unsafe. Stressing further, she revealed that the defaulters apprehended for various environmental infractions were fined, to undergo community service and imprisonment by the courts. Also speaking on the seizures made, Akinpelu revealed that all perishable items seized from the operations are donated on a daily basis to motherless babies homes, while the non-perishables are stored safely till a court order is secured for a public auction of which the proceeds are paid into government coffers. LAGESC in its annual press briefings presents figures running into thousands representing figures of those caught and prosecuted for contravening environmental laws including roadside trading. It has succeeded in carrying out several raids on illegal trading activities with many arrests made, wares seized and prosecutions secured to serve as deterrent to others. The Ogun State Traffic Compliance Enforcement Corps (TRACE) and other security agencies on several occasions embarked on enlightenment campaigns against street trading, use of walkways by traders and haphazard parking by transporters, especially in the heavily populated Sango Ota town. Other agencies mostly involved in these enlightenment campaigns include; the Nigeria Police Command, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC), Otta Federal Road Safety Corps, (FRSC), Environmental Health Services, Ado Odo/Otta Local Government Area, and the Ogun State Government Environmental Marshal Corps. Speaking about these campaigns, Cdr. Seni Ogunyemi, TRACE Corps Commander/CEO, said that the exercises were aimed at reducing traffic bedlam occasioned by the narrowing of roads by traders and transporters in Sango/Ota. Ogunyemi said, “The joint operations are part of our operations to enlighten road users regarding the proper use of the roads, and the need to be mindful of other road users.“ As a shared asset, the road should not be taken over by few groups of people, who narrow it through the display of wares on road shoulders and walk-ways, and transporters who indiscriminately park on the road waiting for passengers. The involvement of these sister agencies of government is to make it all encompassing and to drive home the message and express the seriousness of the campaign”, he added. Cdr. Ajibade Adekunle, Area Commander, Ogun West, reiterated what his Corps Commander said, stressing that the operation is also part of the Corps mandate of ensuring safety of all road users and reducing the incidence of road crashes often associated with those selling by the road side. Some roadside traders spoken to by DAILY INDEPENDENT, said, “It is Local Government Area officials that gave us spots on the walk-ways and by the roadside, and we make payments to them daily. We pay as much as N60, 000 annually to these officials apart from what we also pay to Iyalojas, Babalojas and Agberos too who also collect dues from us if the trading place is near their garages. Serious environmental challenges are also thrown up as street traders continue to litter or dump their wastes on the roadsides, resulting in pollution and health problems. The same wastes will trickle steadily into the drainage systems to block the water way, leading to flooding whenever there is a heavy downpour of rain which could lead to the loss of lives and properties. This accounts for the short lifespan of most roads which are clogged with rain water lacking space to be drained, resulting in the perennial traffic gridlocks found on the Lagos roads after every rainfall. “I was on air in a radio station some months back where I reiterated the need for the general public, especially vehicle drivers to cultivate a culture of compliance with road safety regulations without waiting to be coerced or compelled by the regulating agencies. “Listeners who called in response to the issues I raised concerning causes of traffic gridlocks and crashes, harped particularly on the need for traders to desist from displaying their wares and products on road shoulders, while calling on traffic regulating agencies to do everything within their powers to rid the city of road side trading”.