ABUJA – Mr. Abubakar Mala­mi, Minister of Justice and At­torney General of the Federation, has advocated the need to focus attention on the development of the non-oil sector to boost export and drive the nation’s economic growth. Malami made the call on Friday in Abuja at the Na­tional Conference on Creat­ing Legal and Institutional Framework for Geographical Indications in Nigeria. It would be recalled that the latest Gross Domestic Product figures from the Na­tional Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that Nigeria’s economy grew by 3.98 percent in the fourth quarter of 2021 with non-oil sector as the ma­jor contributor to the positive growth. Orientation: Call-Up-Letters Out On Sunday, COVID-19 Rapid… Ikeja Golden Lions Club Applauded For Touching Lives Of… Malami, who was rep­resented by Barr Ifunanya Nwajagu, Director, Legal Drafting in the Federal Min­istry of Justice, pointed out that focusing on Geographic Indications would serve as a further panacea for poverty reduction, community devel­opment and social inclusive­ness. He said: “Ladies and Gen­tlemen, the time has come to move away from oil economy. “Surely, the time has come to embrace green economy through economic drive powered by geographical in­dications for which Nigeria is richly endowed in quality assets and products. “Needless to state clearly that Geographical Indications represent economic opportu­nities in rural areas, leading to more rural jobs and stron­ger rural communities. “The right to use a geo­graphical name belongs to the community of producers in a given area and empowers those who are involved in the origin of so many wonderful products, thereby, making Geographic Indications the perfect tool for local develop­ment.” POLL On the relevance of legal framework to back Geograph­ical Indications, the minister said, “It is worthy of mention that we currently have variet­ies of unique agricultural and natural products that qualify as geographical indications such as “sokoto goats’ skin”, “Ijebu garri”, “skin hide of Kano”, “Kilishi”, “Yaji” (dry pepper), “Ose Nsukka” (Yellow pepper), “Aso Oke, “Adire”, “Ofada Rice”, “fura” and many more. “Yet, none of these have benefitted from any com­prehensive registration, in­ternational recognition and commercialisation. “Therefore, for Nigeria to avail itself of the oppor­tunities and benefits of its Geographic Indications, our efforts must begin at home, with the establishment of an appropriate legal framework, supported by robust efforts to promote the Geographic In­dications in formalising the traditional knowledge and techniques employed by orig­inating geographic regions, standardising methods of pro­duction, and actively driving recognition for Geographic Indications in international trade. .”To be or not to be, depends on a carefully grafted legal and institutional framework that meets the needs of today while guaranteeing the future and bearing in mind, global and continental trends in the fields of geographical indica­tions.”