Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-Gen­eral of the Federa­tion and Minister of Justice, on Monday said the Federal Government and the United States are discussing and collaborating on the pos­sible extradition of suspend­ed Head of the Intelligence Response Team, DCP Abba Kyari, for his alleged involve­ment in a $1.1 million bribe involving Ramon Hushpuppi Abbas. This is following a warrant of arrest against DCP Abba Kyari by Judge Otis Wright of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Wright ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to track down Kyari and pro­duce him in the United States for his role in the alleged fraud perpetrated by Hushpuppi. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… NFF Dumps Paseiro, Retains Eguavoen As Super Eagles Interim… Malami said this while featuring on Channels Tele­vision’s ‘Politics Today’ pro­gramme. Malami, whose office was forwarded the report of police investigations on Abba Kyari, confirmed that there “were reasonable grounds to pro­ceed against Kyari by either putting him on or extraditing him to the U.S. where charges are pending against him. “As far as I am concerned, the parties are discussing, the parties are collaborating and there are exchanges of corre­spondence from the perspec­tive of investigation, from the perspective of extradition and associated things,” he said. Asked if Kyari was found “guilty” in the police report, Malami said, “You can’t find someone guilty, but perhaps, reasonable grounds for sus­picion can be established which will translate into pros­ecution that will eventually translate…” He added, “That is why we are talking of reasonable grounds for suspicion. Rea­sonable grounds for suspicion have been established and that will eventually translate to the possibility of prosecu­tion and eventual conviction if at the end of the day one is adjudged guilty by the court of law.” POLL Commenting on the case, Malami said, “It is an issue that has international and national dimensions. Ac­tions have been taken, it is a work-in-process locally and internationally and we are doing whatever it takes to en­sure justice is done within the context of the law regardless of the personalities that are involved. “When criminality is in­volved, Nigeria and U.S. nat­urally work together when there are elements of the of­fences that have taken place in the diverse jurisdictions. So, Nigeria is doing the needful by way of support­ing what America is doing for the purpose of ensuring that the cases are tried ac­cordingly within the context of the American context of it. And then, eventually, if there is need for local prosecution, nothing stops it.”