Benevolence is not just a term coined by humans, it is also paramount to the mind of the creator. Accomplished individuals like Africa’s youngest Tech genius, Oyemonlan Benjamin Oseoje, popularly known as Trillbjm, accepted that giving to the less privileged is an obligation and most importantly, a command by God. It is heart-warming that Trillbjm, Nigeria’s young tech wizard, as successful as he has become, is a philanthropist, who believes in giving back to the society. In the African context, charity, for so many people at the top of the ladder, is just a wish. As poverty pervades the continent and some receive favour to have better life, they literally become disconnected from those who are from from the basic things of life. But Trillbjm, who is Nigeria and Africa’s most wanted software and fintech expert, firmly believes that giving back to the society depicts what actually matters to you in life as a human being. Apart from being a shining light to this generation in terms of who sort-after he is in the African tech industry, Trillbjm is also showing the way to other youths who are given to extravagance and lavish lifestyle as it is a  common sight around us today. “Engaging in philanthropic work gives you perspective and shows you what truly matters in life. It also, consequently, makes you a better leader and truly sets an example for your followers to help others who, at that moment, can’t help themselves”, Trillbjm said. “I believe philanthropy is God like if we go by religion, after all the greatest law in the bible is love your neighbor as you love yourself, how better can i portray that if i don’t have love for humanity. So, yes, I can say I’m a philanthropist”, saidTrillbjm. The alumni of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), has unequivocally asserted on several occasions of his commitment to contribute to humanity on a daily basis, something he described as what he “loves” to do. POLL “I love helping the next man and I’m a huge fan of impacting positively to people. I have quite some good deeds I’ve been working on like; donating my time to mentor and build some people,” Trillbjm stated. “A random act of kindness to a neighbor/colleague/stranger; participating in fundraisers and charity events. Helping a child in need (I do this almost everyday); volunteering to offer scholarships to some people that can’t afford to go to school. I also offer financial assistance randomly to people”, Trillbjm. Benevolence is not just a term coined by humans, it is also paramount to the mind of the creator. Accomplished individuals like Oyemonlan Benjamin Oseoje, popularly known as Trillbjm, accepted that giving to the less privileged is an obligation and most importantly, a command by God. It is heart-warming that Trillbjm, Nigeria’s young tech wizard, as successful as he has become, is a philanthropist, who believes in giving back to the society. In the African context, charity, for so many people at the top of the ladder, is just a wish. As poverty pervades the continent and some receive favour to have better life, they literally become disconnected from those who are from from the basic things of life. But Trillbjm, who is Nigeria and Africa’s most wanted software and fintech expert, firmly believes that giving back to the society depicts what actually matters to you in life as a human being. Apart from being a shining light to this generation in terms of who sort-after he is in the African tech industry, Trillbjm is also showing the way to other youths who are given to extravagance and lavish lifestyle as it is a  common sight around us today. “Engaging in philanthropic work gives you perspective and shows you what truly matters in life. It also, consequently, makes you a better leader and truly sets an example for your followers to help others who, at that moment, can’t help themselves”, Trillbjm said. “I believe philanthropy is God like if we go by religion, after all the greatest law in the bible is love your neighbor as you love yourself, how better can i portray that if i don’t have love for humanity. So, yes, I can say I’m a philanthropist”, saidTrillbjm. The alumni of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), has unequivocally asserted on several occasions of his commitment to contribute to humanity on a daily basis, something he described as what he “loves” to do. “I love helping the next man and I’m a huge fan of impacting positively to people. I have quite some good deeds I’ve been working on like; donating my time to mentor and build some people,” Trillbjm stated. “A random act of kindness to a neighbor/colleague/stranger; participating in fundraisers and charity events. Helping a child in need (I do this almost everyday); volunteering to offer scholarships to some people that can’t afford to go to school. I also offer financial assistance randomly to people”, Trillbjm.