P/HARCOURT – President Muhammadu Buhari has carved a niche for himself and has obviously become one of the “best” Presidents Nigeria has produced for signing into law the long awaited electoral Act thereby ending days and months of anxiety. Responding to the historic signing of the Act on Friday, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Rivers state, Prince Tonye Princewill hailed the President for his courage and love for the country by signing the electoral Act into law. In his words, “President Muhammadu Buhari, we are privileged to have you in our time as President”, Princewill said, adding, “to understate it, you are simply the BEST”, Princewill said shortly after the President assented to the Act on Friday. He said he had never wavered in his optimism that President Buhari would sign the electoral Act. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… New Electoral Act Will Deepen Nigeria’s Democracy –… Only a few days ago, the former Governorship candidate of the Action Congress, AC, in a chat with journalists in Port Harcourt, Rivers state assured Nigerians that despite the slight delay in signing the Electoral Act as amended into law, President Muhammadu Buhari would sign the bill because “he has the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians at heart” “The fact that he (President Buhari) has not signed it yet does not mean that he is not going to sign it. Nigerians should give the President some time. “Don’t forget that when the previous bill was submitted to him, he was particular about the issue of direct primaries and he had to write to various Stakeholders to get a feedback from them”. Princewill explained that due to some issues in the bill, the President refused to assent to it. “An amendment has been made now, and Nigerians should give the President some time. “I am very sure that in no distance time, we will have an outcome. The President will assent to the bill. I don’t want to preempt the President on what exactly the outcome will be. But I can assure you that he will sign it”, Princewill predicted.