ABUJA – The Coalition of Southern and Middle Belt Youth Leaders Assembly has taken a swipe at the  Buhari Media Organization (BMO) for accusing  Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom of lying over payment of salaries and pensions in the state. The Coalition disclosed this in a statement jointly signed by General, Coalition of South-East Youth Leaders, Benue Youth Forum/Coodinator Forum of Middle Belt Youth Presidents, South South youth Forum and South West Forum of South West Youth Leaders Forum. The statement called on the Organization to redirect its accusation to their principal, President Muhammadu Buhari but not the Governor who who has performed to the satisfaction of Benue indigenes and other Nigerians living in the state. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… The group said the accusation was an attempt to cover the truth about the colossal failure of Buhari’s government which the Governor had said was glaring for Nigerians to see, even the blind. “The said backlogs of pensions and salaries that was owed workers and pensioners in the state which Governor Ortom through handwork and prudence has endeavored to clear was owed by a former governor who is at the echelon of the Buhari’s administration. “The body language of Buhari’s administration clearly shows that the presidency enjoys to see Nigerians citizens in pain and anguish hence the subtle attack on Governor Samuel Ortom whose only crime is calling on President Buhari to protect Nigerians and stop the killings by the Fulani herdsmen who are his kinsmen.” “The primary responsibility of any government to its citizens is security of lives and property . Any President that cannot provide this primary responsibility has no business being in power.” “If Gov. Ortom and President Buhari are placed side by side for Nigerians to point at who is lying to them. All fingers will be pointing at Buhari for lying to them including those in his cabinet ” The statement read. POLL The coalition also reminded the organisation of the fail promises by President Buhari in 2015 where he said he would improve  Nigeria’s economy better than he met it by making the naira stronger in international market. “In 2015, President Buhari said he will improve the economy better than he met it by making the naira stronger in the international market which he has failed woefully. Now naira is N560 naira per dollar as against N160 per dollar in 2015 when he took over power. The list of the President’s failed promises and lies are endless which time will not permit us to say. When it comes to who is lying to Nigerians, Nigerians know better” The statement added.