ABUJA – The founder of Reset Nigeria Initiative, Prince Malik Ado-Ibrahim, has said that the leader Nigerians need in 2023, is the person that loves the country and can lead the nation out of captivity. Prince Ado-Ibrahim, who said he has the capacity to turn around the country if he is elected as President in 2023, added that if it is not him, it should be somebody like him. The former owner of the Formula-1 team, in an interview with an online media (Njenje Media), claimed that he has the foresight and experience to steer the ship of the country to greater heights due to his mantra of ‘serving to lead’ people. 2023: Nigeria Is At Rock Bottom, Get Your PVC, Falz Urges Youths 2023: Why Tambuwal Is PDP’s Best Bet For Presidency… He said: “I just feel that at this point in time we have the ability to do something completely different. We have been preaching the same things since 1960, since independence. We have been having the same leaders and Nigeria is much more than that.” The businessman, who said Nigerians should really try to reconfigure their minds, because of their experience in the last 12 to 15 years, added that “its not about just being President, it’s about having ideas, being a visionary, bringing something new to the table, creating the atmosphere for Nigeria to actually develop.” The Ebira Prince said that he wants to put his ideas forward, noting that it’s not something unusual with his pedigree. He said: “I think that we need to be more brave and courageous, we need a leader who is able to get his hands there to show that he is involved, in love with his country. “This is not about being President, it’s about leading us out of captivity really. And I am convinced that if it is not me, it needs to be somebody like me that feels Nigeria is worth sacrificing for.” POLL The widely-read businessman and philanthropist warned that every aspirant seeking to lead the country should be scrutinized and questioned on his or her present and past antecedents. “I think it’s just a progression of things, we need new options, we can’t continue with the same insanity over and over again. “We have a country that should not be run by a geopolitical zone. It needs to be run by Nigerians that love this country. “I’m just offering myself, certainly we all need to present ourselves, we all need to be scrutinized. “I don’t think anybody that is coming in 2023 should believe that their past shouldn’t be questioned, their thinking shouldn’t be questioned, their fitness for office shouldn’t be questioned. Smear Campaign War Against Emefiele Exposed, Middle Belt Forum… 2023 Presidency: Ajaokuta Branch Of Society Of Engineers Dumps… “You should open yourself up to be scrutinized, and don’t think money or largess will do this, we need ideas, we need people who are really thinking about one country, not one pocket and that is all I am thinking,” he said.