ESV. Mrs.Olabisi Demola-Alade, Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Lagos State Branch, in this interview with DADA JACKSON, bares her mind on a number of topical issues like quackery, role of the estate surveyor amongst others. Excerpts: Who is an estate surveyor and valuer Thank you very much for this all-important question. For the benefit of the reading public, an estate surveyor is a manager of properties, a land administrator, a valuer of properties that is making reference to the private sector but when we talk about the public sector, they are involved in land titling, they are managers of government estates, managers of government lands and are largely responsible for the allocation of government lands. Satellite Town Residents Bemoan Siting Of Tank Farms In… Building Collapse: Experts Proffer Stiffer Sanctions For… We advise government on land matters and compensation payable to people or persons whose lands have been revoked by government. In a nutshell, we do a lot of other things but basically, these are the major or core functions of an estate surveyor either in private or public practice. How has the journey been so far since you assumed office as the Chairman of NIESV in Lagos State? It may interest you to know, that we(our EXCO) came into office on the 26th of May,2021 and at my maiden press briefing, I unfolded my 10-point agenda. I can tell you, that with the support of my ExCO, we have been able to achieve about 90 per cent of our set goals. You recalled, that I addressed another press conference to mark my 200 days in office where I highlighted some of the achievements recorded so far. At that briefing if you recall, I told you how we embarked on Firm Visitation with a view to sensitizing our members on the need to become associate members. Since I came into office, I can say without sounding immodest, that we have visited over 60 firms including the academia such as Yaba College of Technology with the sole aim of feeling their pulse and they in turn, telling us their plight and how we could be of assistance. POLL It is pertinent to point out,that our branch was able to provide about 220 inductees out of a total of 643 inductees that were inducted last year. This I would say unequivocally was as a result of of our sensitization and awareness drive. How do you intend to address the issue of quackery in your profession? Thank you very much. Simply put, we are using advocacy as a veritable instruments to sensitise our probationers on the need to become associate members with a view to increasing the number of practising estate surveyors and valuers because the more members we have, the tendency for the public to patronize quacks would greatly be reduced. The essence of the Firm Visitation is to further bring to the fore, the need to increase awareness on having a growth in our population. However, let me say that quackery exists in a profession. OneLand Reveals Four Factors For Safe Real Estate Investment LASG Monthly Rental Scheme To Take-Off Soon – Awoyinka What informed your EXCO’s visit to your Ogun State Counterparts? It was to further cement our relationships with our sister branches and to exchange ideas. I can tell you without mincing words, that the visit was ‘very fruitful’. It may interest you to know, that Ogun State has five Permanent Secretaries who are Estate Surveyors whereas in Lagos we have just one or two who are Estate Surveyors. So it’s not about size. We hope to visit more branches in the nearest future.