According to Diario AS, Barcelona are seriously contemplating the prospect of terminating the contract of Ousmane Dembele after having been unable to sell him in the transfer window. Dembele is in the final six months of his contract at Barcelona and has refused to sign an extension. The Catalan giants were intent on getting rid of him during the recently concluded window to make some cash from his sale rather than losing him for nothing at the end of the season. It Hurts To Leave Without A Real Goodbye, Aubameyang Tells Fans Arsenal ‘Paid Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang To Rip Up His… There was strong interest from Paris Saint-Germain while Chelsea also made moves to try and sign him late on the transfer deadline day. However, a move did not materialise, and the French international ended up staying put at Camp Nou.  But, with the move collapsing, the Barcelona hierarchy are looking at other ways to cut ties with the winger. It is claimed that the club are unhappy with the situation as Dembele has refused to sign a new deal, nor was he willing to entertain the offers that were on the table for him in January. As a result, Barcelona are now seriously considering terminating Dembele’s contract before it expires. As per the report, the Blaugrana are willing to offer him the letter of freedom, in which case the two parties will mutually agree to part ways. It would make Dembele a free agent, meaning that the club would be clearing up space on the wage bill even though they would have to pay his salary until he finds a new club. However, for such a scenario to occur, the two parties must reach a mutual agreement, which is unlikely to happen. It is why the Catalans are considering the option of unilaterally terminating Dembele’s contract. In such a case, they would have to pay him his entire wages till June but will be getting rid of him for good. POLL As things stand, the Barcelona board has no intention of seeing the winger back on the field for the club, even though manager Xavi Hernandez does not share the same vision. It remains to be seen how this situation develops in the coming days and whether the Catalans terminate his Dembele.