The Acting Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mohammed Bello-Koko has announced plans to make Eastern ports attractive and competitive through review of type of cargo approval for terminals and tariff regime. Bello-Koko disclosed this during a recent facilities and infrastructures visits at Onne and Rivers Ports. This was disclosed in a press statement signed by NPA’s General Manager for Corporate and Strategic Communications, Ibrahim Nasiru, made available to Daily Independent. Decline In Piracy Incidents Product Of Collective Efforts –… Adamawa Govt., Shippers’ Council Inaugurate Joint Committee For… The Acting Managing Director was quoted in the statement to have frowned at the level of redundancy at some of the terminals at the port. He also announced that NPA would review approvals issued with respect to some terminals in terms of the type of cargo so that they can begin to attract appreciable cargo volumes. He hinted that NPA Management is considering granting new tariff reliefs at some eastern ports, especially Calabar considering the tariff reliefs to shipping companies and terminal operators to make these ports more attractive to shipping lines and cargo owners. On port infrastructure, the Acting Managing Director said that efforts are on at building a modern and resilient port infrastructure, that would fast track the country’s economic development, facilitate good paying jobs and enable sustained peace across the country. Bello-Koko added that the NPA on behalf of its supervising Ministry, is working with relevant agencies towards reducing clearance time of imports and cost of handling of non-oil exports, to compliment the economic diversification agenda of the Federal Government. POLL He disclosed that the Federal Executive Council, (FEC) has approved the first segment of the dual carriage road for the evacuation of cargo covering a distance of 1.2 km. It is expected that the next segment will be executed this year as provided in the 2022 budget. “We have made budgetary provisions for the construction of these critical roads. We have also observed that Onne has transformed into a very busy gateway, unfortunately unauthorized persons have started to find their way into the port to vandalize assets belonging to the Authority. “We all have noticed in recent months the upsurge in cargo traffic at Onne, there has been an improvement in the traffic here and there is need to ensure that what is being experienced in Lagos does not repeat itself here in terms of traffic congestion and the access roads which must be free of gridlocks. In line with our infrastructure development and modernisation agenda, we have come here to inspect the port internal roads network because we must develop the necessary infrastructure that would support and sustain the increasing cargo volumes at Onne Port and other port locations,” the Acting Managing Director said. On the indiscriminate parking of trucks on the access road to Onne Port, he explained that plans are underway to establish a truck terminal in the area, which would be followed by the introduction of an electronic call-up system for the trucks in the eastern corridor, starting with Onne Port. MAN Oron Attributes Mass Failure Of COC Exams To Students’… How Customs Intercepted N79m Unregistered Drugs, Nine Containers… Meanwhile, at a one- day stakeholders’ sensitisation workshop on the patronage of the Esstern ports with the theme: “Framework to stimulate activities and encourage patronage of the Eastern Ports,” organised by the Federal Ministry of Transportation in Port Harcourt, the NPA MD reiterated the Authority’s commitment towards improved maritime activities at the eastern ports corridor through massive renewal and expansion of port infrastructure in the region. For Delta port, the consultant on the rehabilitation / reconstruction of the Escravos breakwater, Messrs Royal Haskonin DHv, has gone far with the engineering study which is expected to be completed soon. In the interim, plans have reached an advanced stage to dredge the escravos entrance for safe navigation of vessels in the channel to Delta ports. At the Rivers Port, through active collaboration with the BUA Group, equipment have been mobilised for the reconstruction of quay walls and berths by April 2022.