Says “Our History Not Lost In Antiquity” The paramount ruler of the lost kingdom  of Oduduwa, Ife Aaye-Ijumu now Ejiyan-Ekiti, the Obalaaye, Oba Adekunle Adepoju Abidiowu 11 has said that the autonomy granted some communities in Ekiti State has spurred healthy competition in terms of development. Oba Adepoju hinted this as he planned big for his first Coronation anniversary where dignitaries and top political office holders are expected. COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose 2023 Presidency: 19 Northern Groups Endorse David Umahi’s… Addressing journalists on the weeklong activities, the Chairman of the Coronation Anniversary Planning Committee, Dr. Olakunle Olajide, represented by the former Chairman, Ijero Local Government, Hon. Bode Agbeleye said the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and Ajero of Ijero, Oba Joseph Adewole were amongst the dignitaries expected at the occasion. The Kayode Fayemi administration, had in 2013 granted autonomy to Ejiyan and others  as  autonomous communities. Dr Olajide  explained that the community has decided to build a new palace at the original site of the old kingdom while many indigenes  had also moved in to develop the area,stressing that the town  is now being rated as second to Ado -Ekiti metropolis in terms of development. According to him ,many royal archival materials of the lost Oduduwa Kingdom were carefully preserved by the community. Olajide disclosed that  the realisation of the autonomy and self determination was a huge success and relieve  to the town, saying the struggle for it gradually began in 1936. POLL Going down the memory lane ,Olajide said “after leaving Ile Ife, the cradle of Yoruba race, we  lived here peacefully with Owa and Ipoti Ekiti for centuries. We lost our identity and became just a clan. But today, that identity had been restored, so this is a celebration of success. Adding “It is important to note that Ejiyan-Ekiti is the former Ife Aaye-Ijumu and it is situated between Ijero and Moba kingdoms .Incessant wars of the period drove the present day Ipoti where they had a tripartite agreement with Owa and Idofin people whereby they all fused to become Ipoti,I  a Confederate arrangement. After bring in this arrangement for centuries Ife Aaye-Ijumu eventually lost its identity as it became known as Ejiyan and was reduced reduced to a clan .with the status of one of the quarters in Ipoti.” “The struggle to regain its identity gradually commenced in 1936 with the Bovel Jones Commission’s findings which contained some misrepresentations .Those were corrected by a 1956 Government  Panel. The consistent and truthful findings and  government recommendations affirming the autonomous status of Ejiyan today. The lost kingdom had risen again as attested to by the immediate past Arole Oodua ,late Oba Okunade Sijuwade “he added. Olajide stated that the town would confer  honourary awards and chieftaincy titles on some eminent Nigerians, including a serving federal lawmaker, Barrister Wunmi Ogunlola, Barrister Adeola Olatunde, Mrs Kemi Wellington Nebo, Mr. James Onifade, among others. Exposing the benefits of autonomy, Olajide said: “The policy has benefited us immensely. Our kabiyesi and all our chiefs are now recognised by government . Our monarch got car largesse from government unlike the time  when we were not recognised. APC Youth Mobilise Over 30,000 Young People, Make Bold Demands… PDP Has Collapsed In Benue – Akume “We have been getting  government’s support through construction of new Primary school, modern market, skill acquisition centre. Our new hospital was built by a member of House of Representatives, Hon. Bunmi Ogunlola, and all manners of self help projects are springing up . “We have no bickering with other two towns, but we are focused about of development and progress .We are developing at a faster pace and lane. This community was once a lost village due to incessant wars and today, it has been reinvented and restored”.