Alzheimer’s Disease is a progressively worsening brain disorder that affects people’s personalities, cognition, memories, and physical attributes. This medical condition is widespread among the older population and may be easily misdiagnosed. Causes, risk factors, signs, and symptoms of Alzheimer’s Disease The exact cause of Alzheimer’s Disease is still unknown. However, research shows that specific changes in the brain lead to Alzheimer’s Disease. High Ratio Of Rural Dwellers, Illiteracy Fueling Cancer Cases Cystic Fibrosis: Managing Genetic Disease And Infertility Some of the risk factors of Alzheimer’s Disease include old age (be mindful that Alzheimer’s Disease is not a part of normal aging); Genetic disposition: Having genetically linked parents may predispose people to Alzheimer’s Disease.; Unsettled findings have suggested predisposed other medical conditions, including a history of uncontrolled diabetes, strokes, TIA, amongst others. As human beings age, brain cells gradually degenerate and die, causing a severe decline or impairment in memory, cognition, mental, and personality changes. There is no cure for Alzheimer’s Disease. However, there are medications for temporary improvement, management, and slowing down of the progression. Alzheimer’s Disease begins slowly, and it first affects the parts of the brain that control memory, thought, and language. Short-term memories are greatly affected initially, while long-term memories may remain intact. People with mild cognitive impairment easily forget where they place the car key or enter a room but forget the main reason for going to the room, making incessant poor judgments, having difficulties finding words to use during conversations, or becoming more forgetful of memorable dates and events, amongst others. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) may progress to a point when people may not recognize family members. They may have trouble reading, writing, or speaking. Later, anxiety, aggression, and wandering can develop. Eventually, the individual may become total care, needing assistance with activities of daily living. Usually, Alzheimer’s Disease commonly begins after age 60, and the risk goes up as we get older. In Nigeria, it is prevalent to see older people with dementia associated with Alzheimer’s Disease mistaken for witchcraft and severely maltreated after expressing some confabulations. Alzheimer’s Disease is ultimately a fatal form of dementia. Meanwhile, it is pertinent to understand the difference between dementia and delirium, which occurs secondary to acute illness and can improve with time. Diagnosis and Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease Research has uncovered less invasive ways to diagnose Alzheimer’s Disease. In the past, the definitive diagnostic test for Alzheimer’s Disease was the autopsy of the deceased, which allowed analysis of the brain tissue to determine whether the individual had Alzheimer’s Disease. Nowadays, laboratory and imaging tests are available to determine the presence and levels of beta-amyloid, a protein that accumulates abnormally in the brains of people with Alzheimer’s Disease. POLL Meanwhile, the health providers are trained to utilize several methods and tools to diagnose Alzheimer’s Disease. These may include thinking, problem-solving, language, attention and memory tests, or psychiatric evaluation. Imaging studies may include brain scans, such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or positron emission tomography (PET), to support an Alzheimer’s diagnosis or rule out other possible causes for the symptoms. Also, blood, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, and other standard medical tests can help identify other possible causes of the problem. People with memory problems should return for repeat evaluation every six to 12 months. Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease Drugs reserved to change disease progression There is no identifiable medicine to cure Alzheimer’s Disease. However, some medications have been approved to target or eliminate amyloids deposited in the brain. The anti-amyloid antibody drug has effectively reduced the cognitive and functional decline in people living with early Alzheimer’s Disease or mild dementia due to Alzheimer’s Disease or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who have evidence of an amyloid plaques build-up in the brain. Meanwhile, reducing the amyloids deposit has not shown remarkable improvement in clinical symptoms or curing Alzheimer’s Disease. PSN New President Unveils Five-Point Agenda, To Boost Essential… Potiskum LGA To Partner Community Women, Survivors Of GBV To… Drugs that treat Alzheimer’s Disease symptoms Cognitive (memory and thinking) symptoms The drugs in this class are currently approved to treat cognitive symptoms, and they are cholinesterase inhibitors and glutamate regulators. These medications have been found to treat symptoms related to thought and memory. These drugs cannot stop or reverse the damage to the brain cells. However, they may help to temporarily stabilize or lessen symptoms by affecting certain chemicals carrying messages between the brain’s nerve cells. Non-cognitive (behavioral and psychological) symptoms With Alzheimer’s Disease, the individual’s quality of life is severely impacted by various psychological and behavioral symptoms accompanying dementia, such as sleep changes, mood swings, and aggression. There are numerous insomnia or sleep aid medications specifically designed to treat insomnia in individuals living with Alzheimer’s. This works by blocking the activity of a chemical messenger involved in the sleep-wake cycle. However, try non-drug strategies to manage non-cognitive symptoms — like sleep changes — before adding medications. Alternative treatments and supplements It has been established that lifestyle habits, such as eating a healthy diet, may reduce a person’s risk for cognitive decline and dementia. And, there are varieties of supplements, remedies, and healthy foods or vitamins that are often referred to as alternative treatments. Steps to Maintain Cognitive Health: Eat food rich in fruits and vegetables; Keep active mind; Exercise regularly; Spend time with family and friends; Manage Type 2 diabetes; Keep blood pressure and cholesterol at healthy levels; Maintain healthy body weight; Stop or quit smoking; Get help for depression; Avoid drinking a lot of alcohol; Get plenty of sleep. Prognosis: Stages of Alzheimer’s? Early-stage Alzheimer’s: Memory loss and other cognitive difficulties are expected at this stage. The symptoms gradually worsen with the individual’s recognition of constant forgetfulness and word-finding, among others.