LAGOS – The Truth and Justice League (TJL), Ogun State chapter, a civil society group, has called for justice over the death of a police sergeant, Leke Ogunsola. Sergeant Ogunsola reportedly died in an accident that occurred while on duty at the Asoludero Sagamu residence of former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel. The group, in a statement signed by Olaide Babalola, its Executive Director, made available to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT on Saturday, the death of the policeman was a huge loss to his immediate family, colleagues and the Nigeria Police. Sowore To Make Presidential Declaration Next Week 2023 Presidential Election Holds February 25 2023 While commiserating with the family of the late policeman and praying for the repose of his soul, the group noted alleged attempts by those it described as detractors, to paint different versions of the scenario leading to the accident with the motive of casting aspersion on the name and integrity of Gbenga Daniel. It stated: “In spite of the fact that Otunba Daniel was not at the residence when the accident occurred, mischief-makers are spinning falsehoods in the media to frame guilt on the former governor, even without hearing his own side of the story. “Contrary to misleading media reports, TJL’s findings revealed that Sergeant Ogunsola got involved in an accident while trying to assist one of the drivers of Otunba Gbenga Daniel to close an arm of the steel gate at the entrance of Asoludero residence in Sagamu. “From credible information gathered from other personnel at the residence, the deceased sergeant only offered to help the driver to close one arm of the gate when the incident occurred. “Contrary to the impression being created that the late sergeant was redrafted to serve as a gateman, including other domestic duties instead of his primary assignment of providing security, the driver actually opened the gate by himself and was in the process closing back the gate when the sergeant appeared to offer a helping hand. POLL “Unfortunately, the steel gate flipped back and got the sergeant badly injured in the process. It turned out those efforts at getting the sergeant proper medical attention soon after the incident did not yield positive results as the sergeant was later pronounced dead in one of the medical facilities. “It is therefore regrettable that the unfortunate death of the police personnel has become a subject of mischief and mudslinging. “Those whose primary interest is to trample on truth to achieve an inordinate goal of misrepresenting circumstances that led to the death of Sergeant Lekan Ogunsola would stop at nothing in their dubious narratives. “It is rather disturbing that the truth is being assailed by deliberately twisting the scenario that led to the accident culminating in the death of Sergeant Ogunsola while on legitimate duty.”