After several postponements and intrigues, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has finally settled for March 26th as the new and possibly, final date of its national convention. Will they stick to this new date or will further adjourn? TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI writes: When the APC National Working Committee (NWC) led by former Edo state governor, Adams Oshiomhole was sacked from office on June 16, 2020, it was replaced by the 13-member Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) led by Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state at a meeting in Aso Villa presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. First, there was rumblings in the party as stakeholders wondered why a state governor in one of the states ravaged by insurgency was asked to preside over the affairs of the party. Many felt there were several stakeholders such as former governors, federal lawmakers and ex-Ministers that could have been given the role. However, since it has the backing of the President, many could only mutter silently. Day 2 State Visit: Buhari Commissions Keffi Neighborhood Market,… Troops Killed 63 Terrorists In Two Weeks As 466 BH, ISWAP… The Buni committee was given six months to manage the affairs of the party which means their assignment was to elapse in December 2020. However, it got another six months extension in December 2020 till June 2021 which infuriated many party members. In June 2021, the CECPC later got another extension till December 2021. When the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) conducted its national convention in October 2021, many thought the APC will follow suit by having its own convention in December 2021 where a new leadership of the party will emerge. That was not to be as the party settled for February 26 2022. Few days to the February 26th date, it was clear to all that the Buni-led CECPC is not ready for any convention. It refused to sell nomination forms to intending aspirants. The widely held belief was that the party will extend the convention by two weeks but last Monday, the Caretaker Committee notified the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the party will hold its Zonal Congresses on March 26, a move that was flatly rejected by many stakeholders in the party. The CECPC in a letter dated 21st February, 2022 and signed by the Chairman, Mai-Mala Buni and Secretary John Akpanudoedehe said the Zonal Congresses notice supercedes the earlier notice for the Convention. The letter read in parts: “This notice supersedes our earlier notice for National Convention APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14 this is predicated on the evaluation of our party constitution. “In furtherance to Article 85 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and compliant with Section 12:6 of our Party Constitution, we hereby write to notify the Commission that our great Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has scheduled to hold its Zonal Congresses on Saturday 26th March, 2022. Kindly arrange for your officials to monitor the exercise accordingly.” POLL After a meeting with President Buhari on Tuesday, the stakeholders in the party finally agreed that the convention will now hold on March 26. Addressing newsmen, Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State disclosed that the 22 APC governors were sharply divided over the actual date to be chosen for the national convention. According to him, the APC governors were divided over the timing of the national convention as some were of the belief that there were many issues left unresolved. When asked if the governors had disagreement on the convention date, he said “Yes, we were divided. We were divided over the timing of the convention, okay. There were some governors that felt that we should put off the convention until we resolve all the Congress’ issues in some states,. “As you know, in some states, these matters are even in court. So, some governors held the view that we should wait until all these are resolved. And this is not borne out of any agenda or selfishmess. It is just a realistic proposition to avoid us violating any laws or putting our party structures of elected candidates in danger. “So yes, there were differences in opinion about timing. Some of us are saying the Constitution allows us to have convention even if three or four states have issues that are unresolved, while others are saying no, let us finish all the reconciliations and we do this convention. After all, there is no time limit for the convention as long as we do it before the time for the primaries. Why Many Women Are Discouraged From Venturing Into Politics – … Private: Group Tells APC To Give Bayelsa, Others NWC Positions “So, that was the difference. This is what the media has called divided governors. “In a democratic setting, there is no way you can have 22 governors plus the deputy governor of Anambra state agreeing on any issue. We can have differences. But after our meeting of last night, to deliberate on the proposal by the national caretaker committee, and our briefing with Mr. President today, we’re all on the same page.” He also disclosed that the APC had agreed on a zoning formula that will swap offices held between north and south. By the arrangement, all offices that were occupied by northerners in the last eight years, will go to the south and vice versa in the coming dispensation. El-Rufai affirmed that agreement had been reached on zoning formula saying “we have agreed a zoning formula for all the six geo-political zones. Essentially, northern zone will have the positions the south have had in the last eight years. And vice versa.It is a very simple, equitable and fair formula. We will now go back and consult at the zonal level and look at the positions that are available and the process of the convention preparation we start in earnest. “So, by the grace of God, on the 26th of March, we would have done our national convention.” Also speaking, Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum and governor of Kebbi state, Atiku Bagudu, revealed that President Buhari was in favour of consensus to select candidates for party offices. He said: “On Consensus, Mr. President reminded us that we have produced a number of national chairmen by consensus; Baba Akande emerged as consensus. “So, he is a believer in consensus as one of the options of producing leadership, and he urged us to explore consensus, so that we can generate list. “While recognizing in that many people who have indicated interest are equally competent, but knowing that just one person will occupy the office, consensus is part of our Constitution and urged us to work towards consensus. “And the governors I have said earlier have also been working to ensure that as part of equitable arrangement, zoning and consensus are incorporated. We have done that at the lower levels, and even at the national level it’s almost certain that we will achieve it. “Then, the date of the convention, the caretaker committee briefed us yesterday of their meeting and the proposed March 26, 2022. And today, the governors informed Mr. President that we have had that we have had the briefing from the caretaker committee and we are supportive of their position.” Bagudu explained that even though the planned zonal congresses of the APC is not provided for in its constitution, the law is also not against the process. His words: “On proposed zonal congresses not in the constitution, I think there has been so much debate. Yesterday (Monday), there was a statement to the effect that even the letter that has gone out was withdrawn. “So, zonal congresses are not explicitly stated in the constitution, particularly how you do zonal congresses. And we have in the past done them with national convention, but nothing again in the Constitution stops them from being done outside the national convention. But the final form will be decided, given the input we have provided.” Bagudu who denied that the APC governors were divided said “Are governor divided? Not at all. The 22 governors of the APC are united. We are in total support of Mr. President, we are appreciative of his leadership, we commend him for his leadership, we are appreciative of the sacrifice of the national caretaker, and extraordinary convention planning committee. And we thanked them to the successes recorded under them. Our party like I said, is greater and stronger, with more members by the day.” On its part, the PDP said  that the continuous inability of the APC to conduct a national convention explains why all sectors of the country “have been in shamble under the incompetent, corrupt, rudderless and overtly confused APC administration.” The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba said the APC’s postponement of its national Convention yet again validated PDP’s stance that the APC was a special purpose vehicle (SPV) of strange bed fellows, “political buccaneers and ferocious power mongers on a mission to wreck our nation.” The PDP stated that the APC which cannot conduct its own internal affairs could not be expected to successfully manage the affairs of a nation like Nigeria, adding that, “the APC is a perfect example of failure both as a party and government unable to conduct a simple national convention in two years. “It has become a Russian Roulette with unending request for extension of time to undertake a routine statutory political activity.” According to the PDP, “our party is not surprised that the APC, a party of backstabbers, again postponed its national convention already scheduled for February 26, 2022.” It is rather saddening how a set of confused, greedy, deceitful, hard-heartened and self-centered individuals who cannot run a creditable organisation foisted themselves in power and plunged our nation into the economic, security and social mess that we face today. “As a vacuous political contraption without a soul, peopled by “political warlords” without conscience and operating without rules, the APC is a bunch of inchoate sailors clobbered together for remote personal gain; operating without a Board of Trustees (BoT) and a National Working Committee (NWC); exists in violation of rules while constituting itself to a threat to our national unity and corporate existence as a nation.” Accordingly, the PDP said, “APC’s postponement of its national conventions had always been a fallout of the horrible infighting, backbiting and gang war by “political bandits” who are desperate for power and access to our national treasury. That explains why their congresses and other activities are always marred by violence, bloodletting and killings.” Moreover, the PDP said the APC was not capable of holding a national convention having become defunct since December 8, 2020, “when it dissolved all its states, zonal and national party structures and set up an illegal contrivance called the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee led by Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State.” “The failure of the APC to hold a National Convention is therefore a clear warning to those aspiring for various positions in the 2023 election on its platform to note that with the APC, they are on a journey to nowhere. “The only way the APC can legitimately participate in the 2023 general is to re-apply to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for fresh registration as a political party”, the main opposition party lampooned the APC.”