LAGOS – A political group, the Delta Ijaw 2023 Governorship Advocacy Group (DIGAG), has urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members in Delta State canvassing zoning of the governorship position by senatorial districts to borrow a leaf from the party’s national body. Augustine Okporu, DIGAG Director General (DG), in a statement made available to Sunday Independent on Saturday said that those propagating the senatorial district zoning arrangements of the governorship office in Delta State should have a rethink. According to the statement, the agitation to zone the governorship office to a particular senatorial district in order to shut out aspirants from other senatorial districts would spell doom for the PDP in the state. PDP Can Only Support Presidential Candidate That Will Unite… PDP Warns Lawmakers Against Move To Impeach Zamfara Deputy… It said: “It has never happened before where any of the three senatorial districts in Delta State to exclusively contest the office at any given point in time. The records are there in the public from 1998 to date. “Granted that only Delta Central people that contested the 1998 PDP governorship primary, the trio of late Olorogun Felix Ibru, Chief James Onanefe Ibori and Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi were the only interested aspirants in PDP that contested the election. The party did not zone the office to the Delta Central Senatorial District then.” It explained that in 2007, all the senatorial districts had aspirants that contested the PDP governorship primary at Ogwashi-Uku. “It was not the zoning arrangement that brought Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan to power. Those who are trying to bite the fingers that once fed them should remind themselves of our recent history. “The Ijaws were disappointed with the opinion of His Excellency, Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan, at the PDP Caucus meeting in Asaba on January 21, 2023. POLL “The former governor knew very well that it was not zoning that brought him into power. We wonder why he is joining his detractors to call for zoning. “It’s said that those who have their palm kernel broken by a benevolent spirit are expected to do good.” DIGAG commended Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa for his wisdom to save the party from succession crisis, even as it appealed to him to continue to apply such Solomonic wisdom to steer the ship of the state. “His promise to conduct free and fair PDP primary elections in the state has given the party faithful a reassuring hope. We urge him to continue to consider all divergent interests in the state when making decisions for the party,” the group added.