***Bicker Over Gender Based Violence ABAKALIKI – Ahead of 2023 general elections in Nigeria, the National Council For Women Societies Nigeria (NCWSN) has called for inclusion and mass participation of women in the 2023 elections. They kicked against gender based violence against women, set out programs tailored to carry out mass sensitization campaign more especially in rural areas to stop the ugly manace. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award The National President of National Council For Women Societies Nigeria, Dr.Mrs.Gloria Laraba Shoda disclosed this in Abakaliki during the weekend on the occasion of the 2022 Convention and inauguration of their State EXCOs at Women Development Centre, Abakaliki. Speaking on the theme:”Women Full Participation In Governance–A Panacea to Balance Development”,Mrs.Laraba charged women all over the country to rise up and participate fully in the fourth coming 2023 general elections by using their number to give full support to their fellow women Who came out to vye for one elective position or the other instead of working against each other.“Women let us use our number very well to do something positive for ourselves because 2023 general elections is around the corner. Don't gossip and work against your fellow women in this coming general election.Endeavor to support any woman that comes out to contest for any elective position. "This is why in NCWC today,we have honourary members that are men,we call themHe for She”. These are men that love women and are ready to support them.We are going to inaugurate them very soon in Abuja.”she said. Dr.Laraba further stated that all women want is equity since both women and men have the same level of education why won’t them be given opportunity to occupy various elective and appointive positions in government. She therefore commended Governor David Umahi for giving women a voice and chance to participate effectively in this present administration saying that the National Council For Women Societies Nigeria has nominated him for special award in Infrastructural Development and Women and Youth Development stating that Nigerians applaudes his good works in Ebonyi State. POLL On her part, the wife of the Governor of Ebonyi State, Mrs.Rachael Ogonna Umahi expressed appreciation for the Inauguration of newly elected EXCOS of Ebonyi NCWS saying that she is delighted to be part of the event stating that Ebonyi Women have distinguished themselves because of their commitment and dedication for Peace,Unity and welfare of women in Nigeria. Mrs.Umahi also pledged to support and give adequate attention to the welfare of women not only in Ebonyi State, but across the country. She however charged women to wage war and kick against Gender Based Violence and other related practices in the state by carrying out mass sensitization of people more especially in the rural areas against Gender Based Violence that is ravaging everywhere adding that women and girl child unwanted pregnancy is on the increase, and should be stopped in order to save guard the future of women and children. “I am delighted to be part of this auspicious event. Ebonyi women are so special and do standout in everything the do in Nigeria. We want to assure you that the newly elected EXCOS will deliver on the mandate.” “We want to thank the outgoing EXCOS for carrying women along and ensuring a peaceful transition. I pledged to give the newly elected EXCOS the needed support to discharge their duties effectively. APC Chieftain, Alao Faults Makinde’s Peace Talks With Area… 2023: Those Who Messed Up The Country Cannot Parade Themselves… “The NCWS should carryout Mass sensitization people more especially in the rural areas against gender based violence that is ravaging everywhere more especially on women and children.“The women and girls unwanted pregnancy is on the increase and becoming unbearable;NCWS should do everything possible to fight this manace to a standstill. Earlier in her welcome address,they outgoing President of NCWS in Ebonyi State,Hon.Mrs.Tessy Osinachi Omoke expressed joy over the success of the inauguration of newly elected EXCOS as well as the Mass participation of women during the event.She also commended the National leadership of NCWS led by Dr.Mrs.Gloria Laraba for her commitment in advancing the course of women in Nigeria as well as giving women a voice to participate fully in development of this country. Hon. Mrs. Omoke noted that the National Council For Women Societies Nigeria (NCWS) is an umbrella body housing all other women non governmental organizations in Nigeria which was founded in 1958 as a result of the continued discrimination and deep abuse and prejudice against women and the girl-child made the noble elites to gather in 1958 at Ibadan with the slogan “African Women Design Your Future” which drew Nigerian women together under one umbrella, irrespective of tribe, religion, age, social status through National Council For Women Societies Nigeria. According to her, the council fought and advocated to redeem the image and dignity of womanhood and push women predicament to both National and International level. She therefore appreciated the efforts of Governor David Umahi in restoring the dignity and glory of Ebonyi women saying that the NCWS is ever ready to support all his programmes and policies in the state having done a lot in the welfare of women in Ebonyi State. The event was attended by dignitaries both within and outside the state including National leadership of NCWS,political office holders, religious leaders amongst others. Responding on behalf of the newly inaugurated EXCOS, the new NCWS President in Ebonyi State, Hon. Mrs. Chinyere Udoku expressed gratitude to God for giving them the opportunity to serve in that capacity saying that new EXCOS will do everything possible to justify the confidence reposed on them adding that Governor Umahi has laid a good foundation for women in Ebonyi State and has placed priority on their welfare and therefore promised to support the efforts of the governor in developing the state.