LAGOS – The Managing Director, Guinness Nigeria PLC, Baker Magunda has stressed the need for organisations to create a safe working environment that would encourage women to work the night shift so as to enable them to attain an equivalent spot with their male contemporaries. Speaking at a media forum tagged “diversity and inclusion drive towards women in leadership growth’’ organised by Guinness, Magunda expressed worries over the fact that some women are not allowed to work the night shift, adding that such hinders their growth in leadership. Admitting that there were some prevailing laws where females are not to work at night in the industry for whatever purpose, he revealed that his company is trying to let the government know that the law is an inhibition. According to him, Guinness is committed to creating the most inclusive and diverse culture anywhere in Nigeria, adding, “to do that we are leading policy changes in this country”. In addition, he said they are making effort to grip and nurture an approach of how his company can exploit the full capacities of individuals, by eradicating hang-ups that could interrupt people expressing their abilities. While stating that gender is still an inhibition in Africa, Magunda revealed that his establishment is making effort to remove such inhibitions. Explaining how Guinness was determined to modify the story of stereotypes in the workplace, Guinness, he said that by 2030, the organisation would have a 50-50 workforce of both males and females at Guinness and that they have to start at the top as people who make policy and people who execute policy need to understand and learn how to work in a mixed team. “Our board is 50-50 female and male, our leadership team is almost 50-50 female and male and the next level we have reached 35 per cent female and the rest are male and this would soon reflect because the last 12 months, we have gone after equal recruitment opportunity and nobody will accept anything less than that.” POLL “It is a recruitment that we have to show everybody that the doors are opened for everybody to be their best and that is what we have been trying to do. For instance, all the hiring in the last 12 months, 67 per cent of them have been females. It has improved the percentage of females at Guinness. And we will be doing more.” Said Magunda. Similarly, Human Resources Director, Ayodeji Akinola who spoke at the forum affirmed that Guinness has continued to remain committed in ensuring that both and female gender strive.   