Asthma is a chronic lung disease that causes partially or wholly reversible airway swelling and narrowing, leading to breathing difficulties such as shortness of breath, wheezing, chest tightness, and coughing. The three most common asthma types are Allergic asthma, Non-allergic asthma, and Cough-variant asthma. Asthma is a common pulmonary condition worldwide, but the prevalence in Nigeria is high, with approximately 13 million cases, ranking amongst the highest in Africa. Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… African Cancer Centre Gets Financial Advisers For $40m Facility… Causes Asthma is caused by multiple factors, including genetics, environment, diet, and perinatal conditions. An asthma attack occurs due to acute or worsening asthma triggered by allergens. Common asthma triggers include Dust mites; Animals (pet hair or dander); Certain medicines (aspirin and other NSAIDS); weather changes (most often cold weather); Chemicals in the air or food; Physical activity (exercise); Pollen; Mold; Respiratory infections, such as the common cold; Strong emotions (stress); Tobacco or cigarette smoke and other workplaces substance, leading to occupational asthma. Most people with asthma have a family history of allergies, such as hay fever (allergic rhinitis) or eczema. Most patients with mild asthma typically show no symptoms between exacerbations. Symptoms POLL Common symptoms include difficulty breathing, chest tightness, audible wheezing, coughing, sweating, speaking difficulty, sleep difficulty, amongst others. Signs and symptoms that require emergency response may include wheezing, pulsus paradoxus i.e., sudden drop in systolic blood pressure [BP] greater than 10 mm Hg during inspiration), change in lips or mouth color, changes in alertness, disorientation, rapid breathing (tachypnea), rapid heart rate (tachycardia), and visible efforts to breathe. Exams and Tests The health care provider will take a medical history and use a stethoscope to listen to the lungs for wheezing or other asthma-related sounds. Tests may be ordered, including: Relationship Between Anteverted Uterus And Pregnancy Gov Emmanuel Harps On Sensitisation On Renal Disease Pulmonary Function Test: (PFTs) are noninvasive lung function tests that show how well the lungs are working. Spirometry: is the test that measures the amount of air the lungs can hold. The test also measures how forcefully one can empty air from the lungs. Provocative test: which inhaled drug is used to provoke narrowing of the airways. Allergy testing: is a skin or blood test to establish an allergy to certain substances. Arterial blood gas to check the blood gas levels. Chest x-ray to rule out other lungs conditions. Treatment MEDICINES FOR ASTHMA Two kinds of medications for asthma include: LONG-TERM MEDICINES Maintenance or control medicines help prevent symptoms in moderate to severe asthma. Long-term medicines are breathed in (inhaled), such as steroids and long-acting beta-agonists. Others are taken by mouth (orally). QUICK-RELIEF MEDICINES These rescue medicines are taken for coughing, trouble breathing, wheezing, or during an asthma attack or just before physical activity to help prevent asthma symptoms. These are either Short-acting inhaled bronchodilators or Oral corticosteroids for a severe asthma attack. This may require a hospital stay, supplemental oxygen or breathing assistance, or intravenous (IV) medication for severe asthma attacks. Outlook (Prognosis) Findings suggest that asthma resolves in one of four children, while wheezing persists into adulthood or relapse occurs later. The risk factors for persistence and relapse include female sex, smoking, earlier age of onset, and sensitization to household dust mites. Although symptoms sometimes improve over time, there is no specific cure for asthma, especially if the triggers are not avoided. Meanwhile, with proper self-care and medical treatment, most people with asthma can lead a normal life. A significant number of deaths each year are attributable to asthma. However, most of these deaths are preventable with treatment. Thus, the prognosis is good with adequate access and treatment adherence. The use of inhaled corticosteroids decreases hospital admission and mortality rates. Prevention To reduce or prevent asthma symptoms, the individual should avoid the triggers or allergen by covering bedding with allergy-proof casings to reduce exposure to dust mites. Also, individuals should live in a clean or well-vacuumed environment devoid of dust, food remnants. Use only unscented detergents and cleaning materials in the home. Keeping humidity levels low to reduce the growth of organisms such as mold. If allergic to a particular animal, remove the animal from home. Eliminate tobacco smoke from home. This is the single most important thing a family can do to help someone with asthma. Smoking outside the house is not enough. Family members and visitors who smoke outside carry smoke residue inside their clothes and hair. This can trigger asthma symptoms. Please, quit smoking if you are still smoking. Avoid air pollution, industrial dust, and irritating fumes as much as possible. Avoid the most common food sensitivities that can trigger asthma symptoms, including: Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital, Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details.Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com