ABUJA – The Nigeria Climate Change community has presented the member representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South Federal Constituency of Abia State, Rep. Sam Onuigbo with the “Climate Champion” award. The group which was led by Dr. Paul Abolo (President of Ecologistics) and Mrs. Moji Makanjuala of Women in Renewable Energy Association (WiRE-A), North Central, recently presented the award to the lawmaker in his office at the National Assembly Complex. Speaking during the event, Dr. Abolo said they had brought greetings to Rep. Onuigbo from the Nigerian and global climate change community, for his dedication which has seen Nigeria finally have a legal framework to guide her efforts at climate action. He expressed happiness that finally the efforts of the climate change community to drive for sustainable development and climate change action in Nigeria has been given an important boost. Rep Onuigbo Urges Nigerians To Get COVID-19 Vaccines Abia; PDP Working To Win, Not To Rig, Says Onuigbo Professor Ubom Bassey, Director of Development and Advancement at the University of Abuja expressed gratitude to lawmakers for being able to catalyze action that led to the materialization of the Climate Change Act. According to him, the Act offers climate change activists the opportunity to advocate for the well-being of the environment under a conducive and legally-backed environment. He expressed his happiness that the climate change community in Nigeria now has a towering champion in Rep. Onuigbo. In her speech, Mrs. Anita Adeyemi, Senior Vice President of Ecologists, recalled how she met with the lawmaker in 2017 and expressed her fears that getting the law would be a difficult task. According to her, Rep. Onuigbo had assured her that he is committed to ensuring that there is a legal framework. She lauded the lawmaker for keeping to his words and proving that there is still “reputational integrity amongst Nigerian leaders.” Mrs. Makanjuola who highlighted how she has come face to face with the devastating impacts of climate change in her numerous journeys to different parts of Nigeria, expressed her happiness and surprise when she heard that there was a man committed to ensuring that Nigeria gets a Climate Change Act. POLL She stated that “by that singular act, Rep. Onuigbo had shown that he is different from other politicians since his focus was not on being re-elected or enriching himself, but in what will positively impact lives even if it was a thankless effort.” Responding, Rep. Onuigbo thanked the group for coming to visit him and for the award. He explained that the Climate Change Act was a result of the hard work of so many people and not just him. He stated that those who contributed to making the Act a reality include the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila who appreciated the urgency of the situation and committed to it; the Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan; the indefatigable Minister of State for Environment, Chief Sharon Ikeazor who showed uncommon leadership and dedication, members of the National Assembly, the National Assembly Bureaucracy, climate change activists, the media, the international community, and others. On the implementation of the Act, Rep. Onuigbo asserted that having finally gotten this far, there is no doubt that the progress is absolutely irreversible hence the implementation must be effected. According to him: “Our experience from Glasgow showed the speed with which the world is transiting and thus if we do not take action ASAP, we will be left with stranded assets. So, we really have no choice than to move fast.”