BAUCHI –The National leadership of Zaar Youth Development Association (ZAYODA) has described a letter purportedly written to the Bauchi State Governor, Sen Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir by Zaar Development Association (ZDA) in collaboration with the Zauren Gonto claiming that the duo is the Supreme body of Zaar nation as a bunch of lies and full of deceit. ZAYODA in a rejoinder signed and made available to newsmen in Bauchi by its national leader, Comrade Ga’Allah Daniel disagreed with the content of the letter written to the Governor was dated 30th January 2022 by Zauren Gonto and the ZDA National Executives. “We saw with rude shock, a letter written to your Excellency by the above-mentioned self-acclaimed bodies, claiming among other things, to be the supreme bodies in Zaarland which is nothing but a bunch of lies and deceit”. Relocation Of LG Headquarters Long Overdue – ZDA Cry Out “The leadership structure of Zaar land includes but is not limited to the following: Zaar Traditional rulers, Zaar Council of elders, Women Wing, Youths. I is ordinarily expected that any letter emanating from the community must have the blessings and the mandate of the leadership structures in Zaar land” “But sadly, this case in point flagrantly disregarded this vital procedure. It is against this background that we are calling on you to gloss over these acts of misinformation and total distortion perpetrated by these so-called acclaimed leaders of Zaarland”, Comrade Daniel said The ZAYODA while commending Governor Bala Mohammed for taking a bold step towards ensuring the actualization of Sayawa Chiefdom stated that it is aware of efforts by some people to frustrate the move. “Your excellency, we want to commend and applaud your boldness in attempting to solve the protracted agitation of the Sayawa community for the actualization of our Chiefdom by citing the status of the capital Sayawa Chiefdom in Tafawa Balewa, no more no less” “We are aware of counter-currents attacks on the other sides of the divide to water down your effort in finally addressing the matter once and for all. May God grant you the wisdom to fulfilled our heart desires” POLL “Even ordinarily, when you set up the Committee of the Review of Babalakin, Shehu Awak and Justice Bala Umar Committee we had strong doubts on the credibility of the Committee to do justice because our Zaar first 11 were not included and the composition of the Committee membership is deliberately skewed against us”. “Secondly and most importantly, the Sayawa Chiefdom matter is before the competent court of Appeal in Jos. Be that as it may, we are waiting to see that justice must not only be done but seen to be done to our people” The Youth group further stated ZAYODA while stating that Governor Bala Mohammed is a choice of the masses, expressed the optimism that he will never impose on them a ruler that they don’t desire. “We want to reiterate that as a people, we have a Gung Zaar select, what we desire is for the state government to give us staff of office with a headquarters in Tafawa Balewa town” The group added The youth group also stated that Zauren Gonto and ZDA are speaking out of their selfish desires and not as representatives of the Zaar people because Zaar nation has lost confidence in them long before now. ZAYODA while thanking the Governor on behalf of the Sayawa Community, stated that the publication on the Daily Trust dated 29th January 2022 by Barr. Bukata Zhyadi and Co remained the authentic and the majority voice of the Sayawa people, promising that Sayawa Community will continue to remain law-abiding citizens.