ABUJA – Prof Mahmood Yakubu Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has warned those who may be planning to foment trouble during the February 12,2022 Council Election in the federal capital city to have a rethink as bad behavior will not be rewarded during the poll. He gave the word caution at the Stakeholders’ meeting organized by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCDA) on Thursday even as he commended the contestants and their supporters for running a peaceful campaign so far. Except for numerous litigations someof of which has reached the supreme court, Prof Yakubu said the commission is yet to receive any adverse report on the election noting that opposing parties have so far conducted themselves well . Stakeholders In Health Sector Make Case For Sugar Tax 2023: Electoral Amendment Bill: Stakeholders Urge NASS To… “The Commission is happy with the behaviour of parties and candidates in the FCT. So far, there are no adverse reports of clashes between supporters of different parties and not many incidents of hate or inciting speeches as they canvass for votes.“I commend the stakeholders for their advocacy for peaceful elections. I appeal to political parties and candidates to continue to show maturity and decorum as campaigns come to a close and Election Day draws nearer”. With just 9 days to the poll, the INEC boss reminded the stakeholders that the commission is committed to an improved poll outcome in the FCT, noting that the Biometric Voter Accreditation System BVAS would be deployed for the election. He commended the FCT Minister and the traditional rulers for the synergy reached to conduct a hitch-free exercise. “I want to thank the Chairman of the FCT Council of Traditional Rulers, the Ona of Abaji His Royal Highness Alhaji (Dr) Adamu Baba Yunusa MFR and all other Royal Highnesses for their presence and untiring commitment to peace in the FCT. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) also appreciates the assurances of support by all other groups for peaceful elections on Saturday next week”. POLL FCT is the only territory in the country where the commission conducts local council elections.