Mixed reactions have trailed the latest music single of the Nigerian actress Adesua Etomi-Wellington. Many Nigerians have reacted to the song which is titled ‘So Natural’, which was released on Friday. From some of the comments collated on Twitter, many Nigerians have advised the actress to stick to her acting career, while others encouraged her budding music career. Singer, Banky W Celebrates Marriages In ‘Running After U’ Video ‘The Wedding Party 2’ rakes in N73m in 3-days Here are some of the comments: @unclebayotics wrote, “Dear adesua, I’m not saying you did bad but let this be the last time please.” @dat_deltagirl wrote, “Wait fesss, Adesua Etomi just released a song? Didn’t see that coming……. I love eeeeeet @AdesuaEtomi” @Falilatt_ wrote, “If I had not listen to Adesua’s song, by Twitter review I would have thought it was a terrible song. It might not be to everyone’s preference but it’s not bad. The song is nice and not only to my ear I’m sure of, some of you follow bandwagon to be mean.” @Jolas_world wrote, “Please you all should stop bad mouthing the Adesua’s song, if you got no content then go home. Mtchew.” POLL @SpendOGustavO wrote, “Person wey advice Adesua to start singing suppose don dey alagbon now.” @larmmy wrote, “Quick question before I listen to Adesua’s music. Has she always been a singer or are we about to have a Tonto, Genevieve & Omotola situation?” @Susu24_ wrote, “Adesua, that reggae part……. why! just why.” @Joshua_Ubeku wrote, “Adesua’s song is very nice. Twitter has a lot of natural mád and bitter people. If you judge anything or anyone based on what you saw on Twitter, you will be SERIOUSLY misled. Very nice song but look at the people’s bitter reaction. WTH!” @maryochekwu_ wrote, “This Adesua Etomi music video be like sunlight detergent advert.” @Sarahlena wrote, “I expected a disaster like other Nollywood wannabes but this was a good first attempt. Well done Adesua.” @Mz_show wrote, “Nigerians will not tell Adesua the real truth about that song? Lmao this is why the country is not moving forward.”