IBADAN – Following the withdrawal of the suit instituted by High Chief Lekan Balogun and some members of Olubadan-in-Council challenging the nullification of their promotion to crown-wearing kings, the Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Munta Abimbola has dismissed the case challenging the consent judgment that nullified their promotion. The judgement has now pave way for the appointment of Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun as the new Olubadan of Ibadanland as well other crown kings returning to their earlier position as High Chiefs. It could be recalled that High Chief Lekan Balogun and some members of the Olubadan-in-Council who were crowned Obas in 2017 by Late former Governor Abiola Ajimobi wrote their lawyer, Kunle Sobaloju, to withdraw their case challenging a consent judgment on their elevation from high chiefs to Obaship status. Coup Attempt In Guinea-Bissau: Many Dead, President Says JUST IN: Veteran Yoruba Actor, Tafa Oloyede Dies This was contained in a letter dated January 30 with names and titles of the affected high chiefs listed as clients. The letter titled, ‘Re: Oba Senator Lekan Balogun & others vs Governor of Oyo State and others’. In the letter, the High Chiefs instructed their lawyer to “discontinue and withdraw” the case with immediate effect. Part of the letter read, “We are your client in the above suit No: 1/22/2020/. After careful and painstaking consideration of the lingering crisis trailing the succession of the throne of our new Olubadan of Ibadan land, we resolved as follows: “That the peace of Ibadan land is paramount in our hearts and as such no sacrifice is too much to be made to achieve the same. POLL “That we as kingmakers and members of Olubadan-in-Council have decided to withdraw our above-mentioned suit in High Court of Justice of Oyo State, Ibadan with immediate effect. “That future reforms or reviews to the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration of 1957 should be kept in view, for now, to be addressed during the tenure of our new Olubadan of Ibadan. “In view of the above, we as your clients are now instructing you to discontinue the above suit and withdraw same forthwith from the court of law of Oyo State and file a notice of withdrawal in court latest February 1, 2022, without failure.” Controversies had surrounded the nomination, appointment, approval, and announcement of High Chief Lekan Balogun, who is the next in line to the throne, as the new Olubadan as a result of the case. In a bid for High Chief Lekan Balogun to be appointed, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, asked the kingmakers to discontinue the case. BREAKING : Veteran Nollywood Actor Tafa Oloyede Is Dead Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (01/02/22) Osi Olubadan of Ibadanland, High Chief Rashidi Ladoja, had sued former Governor Abiola Ajimobi and the inquiry commission that recommended the High Chiefs for crowning the High Chiefs, arguing that they violated the 1957 Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration. High Chief Ladoja won at the state High Court as Justice Olajumoke Aiki set aside the gazette as well as the decisions made based on it. But dissatisfied with the judgment, Late Ajimobi appealed. The Appellate Court, in its decision, set aside Aiki’s decision on technical grounds and directed a retrial of the case. By the time of retrial, the baton of government has changed, making Governor Makinde, who inherited the case, called for an out-of-court settlement and a return to the status quo. The terms of the settlement were entered as consent judgment by the court, putting a closure on the matter. But High Chief Balogun and others later expressed displeasure and filed a fresh suit against the judgment. Again, Governor Makinde during his condolence visit to Popoyemoja Palace of Late Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso I, ordered High Chief Lekan Balogun and others to go and withdraw the suit challenging consent judgment that nullified their promotion and crown before new Olubadan can be appointed. Complying with the governor’s order, High Chief Lekan Balogun and others instructed their lawyer to discontinue and withdraw the suit. At today’s sitting, Tuesday 1st, February, the Chief Judge of the State, dismissed the case after the lawyer to High Chief Lekan Balogun and others, Sobaloju announced the withdrawal and discontinuation of the suit to pave way for High Chief Lekan Balogun who is next in line to become new Olubadan of Ibadan while other Olubadan-in-Council will return back to their earlier positions as High Chiefs.