For most governors in the country paying the new minimum wage placed at N30,000 per month has been difficult, necessitating a haphazard implementation of the wage law. Some have resorted to downsizing their workforce under different guises or sticking to previous wage payment package, regardless of rising cost of living and workers unions’ angst. But Kwara has managed its own full implementation without any loss of jobs and has begun clearing up workers’ promotion arrears that date back to 2017 or longer. What are the lessons here for states, asks NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. Policy makers in the country who back full implementation of the new minimum wage law have always argued that state government could afford the payment of N30, 000 as statutory payment package to workers per month. “State governments just have to cut wastage and reprioritize their choices of where they spend public money,” once explained, Comrade Tunde Meshach Joseph, secretary, Joint Negotiation Council, JNC, Kwara State. But that was a long time ago during the initial negotiation talks on behalf of labour unions with the state government of Kwara State. But these days, Comrade Joseph walks with a bounce in his steps on account of Governor Abdulrahaman AbdulRazaq’s full implementation of the new minimum wages for workers. No government worker in the state now earns below N30, 000 per month. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award It has eased pressure on Comrade Joseph and other labour leaders in the state who have been put on waiting list by successive administrations. The union leaders have had to pacify workers as JNC mediated on the matter with the governor. But with the implementation, with last month salary alerts confirming their new wage status, labour unions under JNC have inundated media and public space with gratitude to the state governor, Abdulrahaman AbdulRazaq in the last one week. “The Kwara State Organised Labour under the auspices of TUC, NLC and the JNC are happy at this development and thank governor AbdulRazaq,” said Joseph, in a statement. He also acknowledged government workers’ perseverance in the matter. The social media space in Ilorin has been suffused with viral footages of jubilant civil servants, too. There was one in particular. This was the footage of a school principal at Okelele Senior Secondary School, Ilorin, Mr Albarika Akanbi, tearfully, thanking the state government. It was emotional and full of drama, especially when the principal directed pupils to clap for the state governor. “I want you to clap for the Kwara State Governor, he has done very well for the civil servants in Kwara State. We need to appreciate him. It has never been good like this in Kwara State where a governor promises and fulfills it in this way,” the principal said. POLL An outsider to the happenings in Kwara might not see any big deal in the salary increment for workers in the state. But a careful consideration of figures from states’ civil service in North Central and South West shows that earning and spending power of the state’s civil servants have been very low over the years. For instance, until the recent implementation of the new minimum wage, the civil servants in Kwara were the lowest paid workers across the two geopolitical zones. This is even as their promotions have been stagnated. Especially before 2019, salaries of workers were paid in percentages. “I can say that this administration from inception brought permanent end to salaries being paid on percentages. On the account of salaries being paid on percentages, we have salaries arrears of about three months and 43% dating back to before 2019. We want to plead with His Excellency to further look at our direction and clear the outstanding salaries arrears of about three months and 43%,” explained Prof Shehu Adaramaja, chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board, SUBEB. Added to the wage increment is the promotion exercise. Earlier in the month, the state governor approved the implementation of promotion arrears for teachers and staff of the State Universal Basic Education Board (KWSUBEB). The move ended years of career stagnation that brought workers’ morale to an all-time low. 2023 Elections: Women Group (NCWSN) Clamour For Mass… APC Chieftain, Alao Faults Makinde’s Peace Talks With Area… Public basic school teachers in Kwara State were last promoted in 2017. “Conduct of years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 promotion examination and oral interview has been expressly approved by His Excellency to hold between the 2nd and 5th August, 2021,” Adaramaja said. “The beauty of this is that these promotion exercises (2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020), going by the good understanding we have with the government, will come with cash backing. “Outstanding salary arrears of staff are also not left out as the process is at its peak,” the state SUBEB boss said. Ordinarily, Labourers and their employees are never happy with each other for long over wage disputes. In April 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the national minimum wage bill into law. The president’s decision came after the national assembly passed the bill approving N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. But in 2020, the unthinkable happened. Covid 19, a viral flu of global proportion, struck. For Nigeria, it was a bad situation made worse. The economy was already beleaguered on account of drop in oil revenues from which states draw monthly allocations. Insecurity, especially around agrarian and food belt zones of the country, led to shortage of food supply, further straining the economy. The challenges, regardless, governors have to implement the new wage law; a matter that has drawn anger from Ayuba Wabba, national president, NLC. Wabba described the poor implementation of the new law as ‘disheartening’. And he mentioned culprit states. According to NLC records, say Wabba, seven states are yet to implement the N30,000 national minimum wage. The list include Zamfara, Taraba, Benue, Kogi, Cross River, Abia and Imo. “It is disappointing,” he said. “While some states are in compliance, others are not. While most of the states in the north-west geopolitical zone have started implementing the new national minimum wage, there is an exception in the case of Zamfara State which has refused to pay the national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment to workers in the state. “In the north-east, the exception is Taraba State which is yet to fully implement the new national minimum wage. “In the north-central, there are still challenges of full implementation in Benue and Kogi states. “In the south-west, most of the states are already in compliance. “In the south-south, the weak link is Cross River State which has spurned all negotiation agreements and entreaties to pay workers in the state the new national minimum wage and consequential salary adjustment.” According to Wabba, it is sad that amid the current economic situation affecting workers, some states “still need persuasion” to pay workers the national minimum wage. He, however, noted that in line with the directive of the national executive council of the NLC, workers in the affected states will embark on strike to demand the implementation of the national minimum wage.