ENUGU – The Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abari­be, on Saturday expressed worry over insecurity challenges in South East, describing it as tragedy while revealing that the sit-at-home order, which has almost paralysed the South-East economical­ly was never ordered by leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. Abaribe, who stated this in Enugu on Sat­urday while speaking during the investiture of the 16th President of Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), Barr. Jasper Nduagwuike, on Satur­day called on Ndigbo to concentrate on making the Southeast as the eco­nomic hub of Nigeria, irrespective of the out­come of their 2023 presi­dential quest. He also lamented the negative effect of Mon­days sit-at-home on the economy of the region, saying rather than achieving anything good, the exercise had ended up driving businessmen away from the region. Wife Reportedly Stabs Husband’s Nephew Over Broken Mirror Analysing The Retaining, Removal Of Nigeria’s Oil Subsidy He urged the business­men, industrialists and all stakeholders in the Southeast to emulate the people of Bavaria in Germany and Catalonia in Spain for jettisoning everything about ruling the countries, but con­centrating on making their regions economic hub of their countries. “We want to turn the Southeast into the Cata­lonia of Spain, the big­gest industrial area in that country. It doesn’t matter that they are seeking for their own self-sufficiency. “They still become the industrial hub of that place so that at the end, even if you are go­ing anywhere, you are going to become a viable country. “If you destroy your place, where are you going to be when every­thing is destroyed. “We want to turn the Southeast into the Ba­varia of Nigeria. Bavar­ia is the industrial hub of Germany today. No Bavarian has been made president of Germany because they are the peo­ple that are holding the economy. POLL “I want to task each and everyone of us es­pecially the chamber of commerce that our job is cut out for us,” he said He said that the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, told him while in deten­tion that he neither or­dered, nor knew about the Monday sit-at-home which had continued to be observed in the South­east.