The Global Initiatives for Good Government (GIGG), a non-governmental organization (NGO) has called on the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to rise up and defend the sovereignty of Ukraine. A statement by Dr. Emeka Kalu, the Director-General of the group, said that by the virtues of human rights and United Nations Charter on Respect for the Defence of Sovereignty, it was absurd, abnormal and draconian for the Russian Government to invade Ukraine without minding its adverse effects on the global community. The group noted that through the series of airstrikes and military offensives launched in the eastern cities of Ukraine, scores of lives and properties worth billions of euros had been lost, while Ukraine was yet to get any external relief intervention from the powerful blocs. Sexual Abuse Of Patients: Nigerian Nurse Bags Three Years In US #EndSARS Report: UN, US, Amnesty International, Others Demand… Kalu insisted that the heinous crime committed against Ukrainians and the world at large called for immediate resistance from world powers to sustain peace and security in the land. The group insisted that the appeal by the UN for Russia to consider the safety of humanity was not enough to contain the situation in the country. Besides, it said the first tranche of sanctions against Russia as announced by the US President, Joe Biden was not capable of weakening the military excesses of Russia in quelling the war. “We are talking of defenceless citizens of Ukraine being carelessly bombarded, killed and rendered homeless in this fourth industrial revolution and there has not been any meaningful resistance or counter attack from NATO family to save Ukraine. “May this Russian military rascally not degenerate into the forceful test and use of nuclear weapons, which is sure to reduce if not entirely wipe the entire human race,” it said. POLL In this hybrid state of the art global village, the group wondered how Russia would rise up against a sovereign state because of selfish interests in the rich oil/gas deposits in Ukraine. The group emphasised that the recognition of the two self-proclaimed independent states by Russia, Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republic as liberated states from Ukraine was a calumny knowing full well that Russia would shortly annex them to her territorial control as soon as perfection of the phoney plans was achieved. It warned that the world could not afford the third world war in this 21century, rather should work to live in mutual togetherness, peace and unity with one another. The group advised the world body to use the carrot and stick system of international politics, propaganda and diplomacy to address the situation.