…As Ayu Declares Him As Better Candidate In Ekiti …Urges Aggrieved Party Members To Put Their Grievances Behind ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Ekiti state governorship election, Bisi Kolawole on Tuesday received his certificate of return. Bye-Election: Alade Olanrewaju Lawson Wins APC Primary Sylva Celebrates Ijaw Youth Leader This is even as the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, at the party national secretariat, declared Kolawole as the best candidate to fly the party flag. Speaking during the presentation of certificate of return to Kolawole who won the party primaries last weekend, Ayu described him an experienced politician, adding that he’s a perfect fit as the candidate. He said: “Bisi Kolawole has seen it all as a politician. He is a perfect fit as our candidate. He was a member of the state House of Assembly, he was a commissioner in the state also and later PDP Ekiti state Chairman. So, Kolawole is a well breed politician. “Let me appealed to our brothers and sisters in Ekiti state to put behind all their grievances and work towards the success of our party. It is only when we win that we can seat down and talk better.” While calling on stakeholders in the state to close rank, Ayu said it is in unionism that winning Ekiti state is possible. POLL Also speaking, the Delta state governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, representing the PDP Governors and Professor Jerry Gana, who represent the Board of Trustees, called for total reconciliation that will give the party victory at the June 18th, 2022. The duo said: “Winning Ekiti and Osun states is a gateway to sending the All Progressives Congress out of Aso Rock. Responding shortly after the presentation of the certificate, Bisi Kolawole said his emergence as the party candidate is the beginning of PDP revolution in Ekiti state. Thanking the party National working committee for their efforts at putting the party at the right direction, Kolawole applauded the party initiative to have quickly set up a strong reconciliation committee. He said: “I want to sincerely thank our national leaders for putting our party in the right direction. Let me assured you people that my emergence is the binging of PDP revolution in Ekiti state. 2023: Nobody Can Undermine Southern Nigeria, Wike Osun Warns Trouble-Makers To Relocate “Ekiti state has been on steady progress before the interruption of the All Progressives Congress. Now, there is suffering, hunger, security problems, pensioners are dying, all these we will change when I enter as governor of Ekiti state.”