YEANAGOA – Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, and the President of Ijaw National Congress (INC), Professor Benjamin Okaba, have called for more concerted efforts to promote and preserve the Ijaw culture and language. They spoke separately at the official launch of a book titled, ‘The Izon of the Niger Delta as part of activities marking Governor Diri’s second year in office on Thursday in Yenagoa. The 849-page book with 33 chapters, written under the auspices of the Ijaw History Project and edited by Professors Ebiegberi Alagoa, Tekena Tamuno and John Pepper Clark, was commissioned by the first elected Governor of Bayelsa, late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, in 2004. Jim Ovia Foundation, Zenith Bank Gift 3,500 Tablets To Indigent… IGP Charges Strategic Police Managers On Intelligence-Driven… Diri said his administration was working hard to put measures in place for the preservation of the Ijaw culture and language, adding that teachers would be trained and posted to schools to teach language. He said, “What we are doing today as Izon people is very important. If you do not know where you are coming from, you actually do not know where you are going. As Izon people, let us all resolve that wherever we give birth to our children, we will speak Izon to them. “Our language is one of those forecasted to become extinct in a few years and we do not want it to become extinct. So, your government is doing everything to ensure this does not happen. “I am happy that this programme is part of our second anniversary. As I have been saying, we can build all the bridges and roads but if we lose our identity, we have lost it all. For me, this is one of the star events of our anniversary programme.” On his part, Okaba advocated the teaching and learning of Ijaw History as a compulsory subject in secondary schools and universities. POLL He, in particular, called on the Governor Diri-led administration to come up with legislation to galvanize the teaching and learning of Ijaw history at secondary and tertiary educational levels in the state. Okaba while commending Diri for ensuring the conclusion of the book project, said, “I consider it most expedient to call on Mr. Governor of Bayelsa State to maximise the gains of this noble effort (the book project) by, through legislation, making the teaching and learning of history and Ijaw history compulsory in our secondary schools and tertiary institutions (as General Studies Courses). “From this book project, it is obvious that history is not just study of past events but the witness of time, the torch of time, the life of memory, the teacher of life and the messenger of antiquity.” Both the governor and the INC chief saluted Alagoa, Tamuno and Clark for documenting the history of the Izon people and lauded the book launch committee chaired by Professor Seiyifa Koroye for their efforts in putting the event together. They also paid tribute to Alamieyeseigha for commissioning the Ijaw History Project to “rediscover and reconstruct” the totality and essence of Ijaw heritage for the Ijaw nation. Warri Agog As Atanomeyovwi Gives Daughter’s Hand In… You’re Not Begging But Negotiating, Buhari Tells APC… In his remarks, Alagoa, the only surviving editor of the project, said the book was special because the ideas were from ordinary Ijaw folks. He thanked Diri for his support towards the formal book launch and also expressed appreciation to a former President, Goodluck Jonathan, for also providing financial support and encouragement that enabled the authors to travel and source materials around the world.