FELIX UKA Although it would be herculean to pin-point all that had challenged the various political outings of the South East geopolitical zone in the Nigerian federation, the point of agreement is that the region has not been able to achieve suitably, their deserved standing in the nation’s polity since the democratic dispensation. There have been cases of sabotage, betrayals, mistakes, political impunities, and of course, the concomitant lack of cohesion. These have diminished the political advancement of the Igbo race, negatively affected their solidity and made them prone to all sorts of manipulations, and marginalization. These have manifested at various times in the annals of Nigerian political narratives. It was only when the Senate Presidency was zoned to the South East that Nigeria had five Senate Presidents within five years, occasioned by manipulations orchestrated by actors from within the region and from outside of it. 2023: Can Atiku Survive The Zoning Battle In PDP A’Ibom 2023: Media Group Berates Akpan’s Campaign Organisation… Evidently, though, there are perceived indications that the region in recent times has demonstrated new-flanged determination to stand strong on actualization of the lofty expectations of their people in the comity of States in the Nigerian federation. Even as varied interests, politicians are paraded as possible candidates from the zone for the 2023 presidential elections one common accord in the South East is that, “It is our chance to rule”. Who goes for us? That is the probing question. No doubt, the region cannot gain the presidency without alliance with the other federating unites. To gain such pact, they need a candidate, a personality who has stood strong in favour of the unity of Nigeria as one nation, a person who can be trusted by stakeholders across the major political divides. Such a person would also have proven to have the capacity to improve the infrastructure and welfare of the populace, more so, ensure security of Nigerian residents and their properties without religious or ethnic sentiments. Elder statesman, Chief Mbazuluike Amaechi, one-time Minister of Aviation at the Presidential Lodge, Old Government House, Abakaliki, recently told Daily Independent that the Igbo’s success in 2023 elections depends, highly on the choice of candidate the region would presents, more so, on the strength of unity and oneness of purpose of the region, without selfishness among the Igbo key players. As at the last count, over five people from the zone had indicated interest for the presidency. POLL Those who have formally made their intention known include Ebonyi State Governor, Engineer David Nweze Umahi, Professor Kingsley Moghalu, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, Chief Sam Ohuabunwa, and of course, Mr. Yule Edochie. Others who are perceived to be waiting in the wings include Mr. Peter Obi, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu etc. All these are prominent Igbo sons who have the credentials and rights to contest for the plum position of the President of Nigeria. But a number of observers of the unfolding scenarios posit that Governor Umahi has added advantage among the aspirants, having in the most recent times demonstrated capacity to lead, coupled with his profound achievements within the last six years he has led Ebonyi State as its third civilian Governor at precarious times , when it has become very difficult for some State governments to pay salaries due to paucity of funds. Umahi’s commitment to unity of the Nigeria nation earned him much heat, even from his home front. He was misunderstood, criticised for his posture on certain protestations which he considered secessionists’. As fate may have it, that Umahi’s insistence on indivisibility of Nigeria now tends to be counting to his credit. That accounts for his growing robust relationship with the Northern and Western power brokers. Another factor budding well for the Umahism is his passion for reconstruction of wherever he finds himself. Yes, an Engineer, but the much he has done in the infrastructure sector in his State is not just about being an Engineer but has to do with his passion, just enthusiastic like a man who is under divine calling. The transformation in Ebonyi State is unprecedented. The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Ajaokuta branch recently endorsed his Presidential bid. Enugu APC Chairman Wants State Wrestled From PDP Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… The branch Chairman, Engr. Abraham Aghadike, who spoke on behalf of a delegation of the NSE who paid a courtesy call on the Governor at the Old State Executive Chambers, Government House, Abakaliki said they were amazed by the magnitude of infrastructural development that had taken place in Ebonyi State in less than seven years of Umahi’s administration. Aghadike said they were fully in support of the presidential ambition of Governor Umahi, noting that the Governor had the credentials needed to seek and perform exceedingly well as the next president of Nigeria. “We are amazed by the sheer magnitude of infrastructural development that has taken place in Ebonyi State in less than seven years. In fact, even as Engineers that we are, who are conversant with designs and construction of major projects, but I must say that the scale and scope of what we are seeing here, truly stagers our imagination. We are very proud of the laudable achievement of His Excellency, Engr David Nweze Umahi. “I must say, sir, you are a worthy ambassador of the engineering profession. Your Excellency, permit me to say that today, you have ascended into the realm of a legend. The name, David Umahi has become a phenomenon, it is no longer a name of a person, and it represents a phenomenon. We have heard all the exploits of Ebonyi State, but like the Queen of Sheba, we believed not the words. But until I came and my eyes have seen it and behold a half was not told to me. “We, the members of NSE, Ajaokuta branch, are not unaware of the higher calling of your Excellency, it’s the opinion of so many of us in this delegation that what you have done in one place should be replicated in other places. “On that note, your Excellency, please, permit me to say, we are fully behind you in this higher calling that you seek. We believe that you have every credential to seek and perform exceedingly well in the higher office in this country. “We are just saying, give us the word, and we will follow. We don’t know how to come in, we don’t know what to do, but we like what we have seen and we are ready to be part of it. In as much as we are a professional body, we are ready to front our fellow professional to seek a higher office in the land,” Aghadike said. Asked shortly after the courtesy call why the branch endorsed Umahi’s bid while their State Governor, Bello, is aspiring to be the next President, he said, “we didn’t really come to endorse Governor Umahi. But Like the Queen of Sheba said, we have come, we have seen and we are convinced. Whoever that is aspiring for a higher office, show us your work, if you have faith that it’s good”. Ebonyi State Chairman of APC, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha on his part explained that, “I am very confident with what I am seeing. I am being pampered and people are seeing me as the Chairman, who is going to produce for the first time, a president of South-East extraction”. He explained that, “consultations are going on and something great is happening. Nigerians are coming together to say let us give Umahi the management of the country. They believe very strongly that he will do very well and that is why they are yearning for him. So, I have so much confidence with what I am seeing. Umahi is going to fly APC’s flag in the presidential election. He is not only going to fly it, he is going to be the brand new President of the country come 2023”. Indeed, Umahi’s achievements in his state have positively impacted their socio-political developments such that even the opposition elements and his supporters in the area attest to that and can now raise their heads high, anywhere and claim to be indigenes of Ebonyi State that was previously, named Dust of the Nation, seen as home of hewers of wood, and source of maid servants. A former member of the State House of Assembly, Barrister Uchenna Orji explained that the transformation in Ebonyi State did not come without some level of leadership thought, high level of creative ability and ingenuity of the Governor. He noted that, “Chief Umahi was a party Chairman, a Deputy Governor and as such, he knows the State well, especially where the shoe pinches. In virtually every locality, he knows their problems and what critical infrastructure that must be fixed”. Orji, currently the State’s Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, said “In each local government council of the State the Governor ensured the construction of not less than twenty- five kilometre of roads, in addition, the Governor ensured that every federal road connecting Ebonyi State was rehabilitated, on concrete pavement. So, we now have about 1500 km state roads, including the satellite town, metropolis and across the rural communities. He first procured 13 number bulldozers, one for each per Local Government Council. He procured tractors not less than 30 and gave to Co-operatives and procured seeders, trans planters, harvesters. In addition to these, he had to revamp the rice milling plants”.