BENIN – Some members of the butchers’ association on Wednesday protested against alleged maltreatment of their members by one Akhere Odijie who they said was sponsoring thugs to attack them after imposing himself as the state chairman of the butchers association. The protesting butchers also called on Governor Godwin Obaseki to call the coordinator of Edo Security Network, Chief Superintendent of Police, Yusuf Haruna (Rtd.) to order, who, according to them is backing Akhere Odigie to sponsor thugs to attack them. According to the butchers, who protested to the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Edo State council, “Haruna and Odijie have been making life unbearable for us by using thugs to attack us on regular basis”. New Royal Scandal As Police Probe Deals Linked To Prince… Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… Speaking on behalf of the protesters, Sunny Omokaro, said after imposing himself as the state chairman of the association, Odijie has been attacking and maiming anyone who refuses to cooperate with him or fail to pay money at the abattoir. He added: “Anytime we make a complaint to the Nigerian Police and the thugs are arrested, they would be released without delay. And what we were told is that call came from the Governor’s Office. And they told us the person that is usually called is one Yusuf Haruna. “Recently, we went to make a complaint at the Zone 5 headquarters of the Nigeria Police, and thugs of Odijie were arrested, but they were released. It was there I saw Haruna who came to effect bail of the thugs. It was there I confirmed the allegation. “Odijie, on his part is threatening that even if he kills, nothing will happen and that his brother is governor of the state. As we speak, we cannot express ourselves freely. It has been intimidation and gunshots. When you speak out, you will be attacked,” he added. But Haruna denied the allegation, saying he does not know the protesters nor does he have any business with them. POLL On his part, Odijie said the protesters were sponsored to rubbish his administration which he said has been the most successful. “This is my seventh year as chairman and those people are just carrying propaganda against me. We are getting close to the election and that is why they are causing this crisis. Edo Butchers Association is not part of the national body where somebody is claiming to be the life president.”