UGHELLI – A frontline 2023 governorship aspirant in Delta State on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP ), Olorogun David Edevbie, has assured pensioners in the state of full payment of their entitlements if elected into office. Edevbie, a former Delta State Commissioner of Finance, who said this on a radio programme, monitored in Warri, weekend, declared that it was unjustifiable to deprive pensioners of their entitlements and thereby subjecting them to untold hardships. In a television programme which was anchored by the Delta State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Edevbie said, “denying the senior citizens of their rights was a disincentive for those who had contributed to the development of the state.” Community Raises Alarm Over Alleged Planned Attack By Neighbours… 2023: Urhobo Youths Urge Okomitie To Contest Ughelli South… He said: “Though the state government is much concerned about pensioners’ plight but was constrained by paucity of funds, I am assuring that I will deploy my financial management expertise to generate the much-needed funds within the first few months of my administration.” The immediate past Chief of Staff to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, said he will introduce a students loan scheme for those who might need it in addition to seasonal bursaries and scholarship programmes in order to sustain the existing free primary and secondary education programme of the state.” He said his administration will invest much to upgrade tertiary institutions in the state towards producing graduates who will meet the global standards and employability in the public sector. Edevbie said he will prioritize the provision of power and security to drive his main agenda of the modernization and industrialization of the state. According to him, “This will entail investments in the training and greater motivation of public servants for greater efficiency and productivity, consolidating on the efforts of Gov. Okowa on roads and infrastructure.” POLL The former commissioner of finance, who assured the three senatorial districts of the state of even development, said his government will invest more to open up the riverine areas of the state.