*Says Council Chairman, House Assembly Seat Can’t Be In One Constituency A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Comrade Ejiro Ogidigben has stated that the existing zoning formula of elective and appointive positions in Ughelli South Local Government Area favours the Ughievwen people (Constituency II) to produce the member of the State House of Assembly till 2031. Ogidigben who made this known during a chat with journalists, said Ughelli South Local Government Area have two zoning constituencies, Ughievwen as constituency I, while constituency two is made up of Ewu and Olomu. It Doesn’t Matter Where Nigeria’s Next President Comes From –… Ugwuanyi’s humility, Penchant For Peace Will Take Him To… He noted that within each of the constituencies, there are zoning structures between Olomu and Ewu, while Ughievwen have Ughievwen north comprising Uhurie and Orhowhe, and Ughievwen South comprise Ukpedi and Owhawha. He revealed that there are clandestine moves by some political heavy weights to undermine the zoning arrangement between Constituency I, (Ughievwen) and Constituency II (Ewu and Olomu) for the State House of Assembly seat to go to Constituency II (Ewu and Olomu) that held it for 16 years. He explained that both the Late Senator Pius Ewherido and Olorogun Taleb Tebite held the position for eight years each, while Constituency I (Ughievwen) has Hon. Reuben Izeze who will complete second tenure of eight years in 2023. He noted that at present, the Council Chairman seat is in Constituency II (Ewu and Olomu), yet some persons are making clandestine moves in the name of Community Blocs for the Delta State House of Assembly, Ughelli South Constituency seat to go to Constituency II (Ewu and Olomu) in 2023 and Constituency I (Ughievwen) would be left with nothing. According to Ogidigben, “come 2023, the State House of Assembly seat will still remain in Constituency I (Ughievwen), any move to undermine it may spell doom for the PDP in the area”. POLL “Even the governor of the state and leadership of the party are aware of the political arrangements in Ughelli South Local Government Area. And it is on record that Constituency I (Ughievwen) has more registered voters and units, that is over 65% of the total registered voters in Ughelli South Local Government Area”. “Now that 2023 approaches, the people of Constituency II (Ewu and Olomu) should respect the zoning arrangement and peacefully allow Constituency I (Ughievwen) to retain the State House of Assembly seat for 16 years just as they did through Late Senator Pius Ewherido and Olorogun Taleb Tebite for 16 years. Ogidigben called on all Ughievwen politicians to come together in one voice in order to retain the State House of Assembly seat, Ughelli South Constituency for 16 years.