ABUJA – Concerned FCT Indigenous/ Residents Women has cautioned Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory  ( FCT ), Hajia Ramatu Tijani Aliyu against making inflammatory and inciting statements capable of causing violence in the Saturday, February 12 Area Council elections. The group disclosed this in a statement signed by its Leader, Josephine Itayo at a press conference on Thursday in Abuja. The statement noted that such statements would not only trigger violence but set the country on fire.The group added that the Feb 12 election is a grassroot election and should not be a ground for breeding violence owing to the fact that a political party is ready to win at cost. Women Group Protest Over Gender Imbalance In Appointment Of… Women Group Tackles Gani Adams Over Calls For Removal Of Oyo CP They accused the minister of threatening fire and brimstone should the All Progressives Congress  ( APC ) lose the election. The statement also called on relevant security agencies to ensure a level playing ground among all political parties and ensure the safety of FCT residents during and after the elections. The statement read ” I would like to bring to your imminent notice a very scary situation about to hit our beloved Federal Capital Territory. It is the inflammatory and inciting statement coming from the Honourable  Minister of State for the FCT regarding the forthcoming Area Council elections slated for the 12 of February 2022. ” By way of introduction, we are a group of Concerned Women and Mothers, comprising of indigenes and Residents of the entire FCT. ” We are making this press conference to resoundingly condemn in strong terms the Provocative statement made by a highly respected mother and woman such as Hajia Ramatu during her campaign rounds in Bwari Area Council of the FCT. POLL Her utterances of “ ABAMU A HUTA, KO A HANA MU A SAMU DAMUWA” meaning: it’s either APC wins and there’s peace or APC loses and there would no peace. ” You would agree with me that a statement like this coming from a reputable representative of the Presidency such as Hajia Ramatu is enough to throw our FCT into anarchy, ” it is enough to endanger our hardworking husbands and our children even the Corp Members who are staking their future on the line to serve their fatherland. This kind of statement is strong enough to put all the sweat and efforts put into modeling by both past and present administration into flames. By way of reminder, the FCT has a culture of political tolerance, a tradition of the indigenes, imbibed and practiced by the Residents. Past Ministers of the FCT have promoted this peace in all their campaigns including the Present Minister. ” The Honourable Minister, in all his years as the President’s representative meaning the seat, has never used an inciting and provoking statement in all his campaigns. ” We are using this forum to call on the Government and all Law Enforcement Agency to ensure that a level playing ground is given to all political stakeholders and most importantly the security of our children, our husbands, our parents, friends and neighbours are protected as they exercise their Civic responsibility come Saturday 12 February 2022.