Mercedes have unveiled their stunning new car which they hope will help Lewis Hamilton win back the world title from Max Verstappen. After losing last season’s title in agonising and controversial circumstances on the final lap of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, the team have pulled out all the stops to ensure Hamilton has the best chance of chasing down the Dutchman and winning a record eighth world championship. Mercedes have presented the W13, the narrowest car of all teams for the coming season, with just a five cm gap between the pontoon and the floor, making it 10cm narrower than the cars unveiled by Aston Martin and Ferrari this week. Why Okagbare Bagged 10-Year Doping Ban I Want To Bring Unity, Development To Oke Ogun Through Sports,… Mercedes said the car, which took 18 months to build, is 98% new compared to last season’s car. The team also returned to its traditional silver body work after racing in black the last campaign. Hamilton will be hoping to navigate the new car to the world championship while fellow Brit George Russell will be the car’s other driver after joining Mercedes from Williams to replace Valtteri Bottas. Russel got his start in F1 with Mercedes when he joined their young driver programme in 2017. ‘Ever since work on W13 began, I have seen an excited enthusiasm in our team members like never before, thanks to the scale of opportunity that these technical regulations provide,’ said Mercedes boss Toto Wolff. ‘Towards the end of the year when the car build project truly came together, I felt a deep passion across the whole organisation, not only in the technical arena but across our bases at Brackley and Brixworth who were embracing a mindset of ‘we can do this”. POLL ‘We did pretty well during the last big regulatory change into the hybrid era and performed well when we went from the narrow to the wide cars in 2017. While we have a good track record, my message is clear: we can’t rely on past success for this year’s performance, but we can rely on our people, our culture, our structure, and our mindset to do the best possible job for 2022.’ Wolff said ahead of the launch that Hamilton had made peace with the tumultuous end to last season and never doubted that the seven-times world champion would compete this year. And he said the events in Abu Dhabi have only made the 37-year-old more motivated to win the championship back from Verstappen. ‘I have never seen him more determined,’ said Toto Wolff. ‘Lewis is the best driver in the world, and he is joined by one of the brightest and most promising of their generation in George. Djokovic keeping An ‘Open Mind’ Over Being… Okpekpe Road Race Has Come To Stay-Edo Govt ‘I have no doubt that we can create an environment of partnership between the two of productivity to develop this new car which will be essential, whilst maintaining a healthy competition that will motivate them and the wider team.’ Hamilton had a childlike fascination with the new car. ‘It just takes you back to being a kid,’ he said. ‘I think it’s always exciting watching, I mean with this new era of car, we’ve never seen such a drastic change, right? ‘So it’s such a huge change in so many ways, that it’s just been really interesting seeing the designers and everyone coming together to find the best ways of creating a masterpiece.’ Russell added: ‘It feels incredible, obviously Lewis and I have driven so many laps in the simulator of this. We’ve seen all the drawings, we’ve had so many meetings and presentations about it, but suddenly seeing it all come together, seeing all of the men and women who have put so much hard work and grit into making this, and coming together here, I think it looks incredible. ‘And I think the silver [coming] back, we’ve had an incredible livery with the black in the past couple of years – but the silver back on track I think is going to look incredible.’