Says Party Unity, Top Priority Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has applauded the former governor of Kaduna State, Sen. Ahmed Makarfi for saving the party from destruction during his stint as the Chairman of the party. Wike said this in Kaduna when he paid a visit to the former governor who has just returned from a medical leave PDP Can Only Support Presidential Candidate That Will Unite… Delta 2023: DIGAG Counsels Senatorial District Zoning Crusaders… The River State governor stated that Makarfi saved the PDP from the hands of Senator Ali Modu Sheriff whom he described as an agent of destruction.“If not for Makarfi and his leadership, there wouldn’t have been PDP today. He disclosed that where the presidency of Nigeria would be shifted for 2023 polls is not a priority now, but the unity of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party PDP remains the most important issue which party members should focus on.. Wike advised Makarfi to take it easy as he recuperates, stressing that the Unity of the Party is what they should and would fight for now, after which the issue of the presidency would be resolved in the interest of the party and the nation. He said the PDP remains the party to beat in Nigeria and it remains the only party to salvage the country, as he accused the All Progressive Congres APC of failure. Wike who applauded the party for winning most of the councilorship positions in the last Local government elections in Kaduna said that showed that Kaduna grassroots is in the hands of the PDP and promised of any support to ensure the party remains United in Kaduna. POLL On his part, Senator Ahmed Muhammad Makarfi said there is no need to rest now as there is lots of works to be done. He said the party in Kaduna has issues, but they will resolve it. Makarfi applauded the role Wike played to reclaim the PDP from the hands of those who do not wish the party well, assuring that he is ready to play further roles to strengthen the party and win 2023 election to save Nigerians