Chief Glory Emeh was a Commissioner under former Governor Peter Odili, Chief of Staff to former Governor Celestine Omehia and political adviser to Governor Nyesom Wike in his first term. In this interview with DANIEL ABIA, he speaks on the effect of consensus candidate to the power of choice by the electorates and development in Rivers state. Excerpts: How in your opinion do you think the 2023 general elections will play out in Nigeria given the strength and reach of the two major political parties, APC and PDP? If what is being done now is anything to go by, what it means is that we are expecting free, fair and credible elections in 2023 far different from what we used to see in the past years. If the new electoral law is assented to, it means one of the major bottlenecks in election planning and execution by the INEC will be fairly reduced which is the transmission of result. Before now when you hear politician says guard your vote or protect your vote, it means that you have to follow the result bumper to bumper. At that point, as a result bearer, any move that you make is suspicious. You may want to take a particular route that takes you to your destination, but because of those who are monitoring you, they may think that you want to escape with the result, then you may be attacked. But if the result is done in a way we are told, transmitting it electronically, that will be less risky. That should be the expectation of Nigerians. If we don’t use this method and resort to what we used to know, then you can believe that we will still have the same problem that we are familiar with. How I’II Tackle Insecurity Challenges If Elected Benue Governor… Sunday Igboho: Afenifere Condemns Extenson Of Incarceration Another contending issue in the new electoral Act is that of whether or not political parties should adopt direct or indirect primary methods, we are also aware that Mr. President benefitted from the direct method to emerge victorious in the last two elections, why is he against it now? There is nothing wrong for the eyes of the President to open to the truth now. I am not an APC person neither am I working for the President. You can’t continue to do the same thing forever. It could be that Mr. President has come to see the flaws in the direct primary method of election and decided to change it for the good of Nigerians. If it was a civilized society where the facilities are there, the best is to allow everybody to participate in the process. Direct primaries in our situation is not even like a general election. It is just that it involves a certain percentage of people during an election. The general election itself does not involve the general population. Direct primaries does not involve the entire populace as such. It only involves only those who are involved in that political party at the time whose membership is up to date and is subject to the payment of dues. It is certainly going to be close to complications and implications, cause implications and some elements of the general election. This is not like the indirect primaries which is the delegates’ election. All of them have their advantages and disadvantages. What I am against is the consensus. Consensus reduces the choice to a handful of people. The indirect primaries involve some people to some extent because the delegates are first elected by the people. You can see that today, the President is managing our collective resources on trust for all of us. That is because we had surrendered our fate to him at the time we elected him to be our president. Both those who are in his political party and those who are not are already tied to what his head can bring out. Our luck is that we have the opportunity to say stop which is when there is another election. The most disturbing scenario in the two major political parties in Nigeria today is the issue of zoning. Where in your opinion do you think your party, the PDP, should zone the presidential ticket to in 2023? My level of politicking will not matter here. We have our leaders who are the people to speak on that. Just like I told you about delegate election, if we do election properly on who to represent us, if I vote for you, it means that I have surrendered my mandate to you to carry me along. Party has leadership but I have an opinion. Even that opinion cannot be expressed without me consulting the leadership of the party on such issue. Until when I am sufficiently independent to make my opinion influence others, I have to wait until the leadership of the party comes up with a position on that. It will not augur well if your opinion conflicts with the position of the party on any particular issue. The issue of zoning is going to be decided by the leaders of the party. I will only advise the followers to wait and comply with the position of the leaders on zoning because it is a very important matter. When do you think Nigeria will be of age in the issue of recycling of old politicians as President of the country, are we not yet ripe for the youth to be entrusted with power? POLL The youths are already in active political positions. I remember one Samson Itode. When I was in law school, he was our leader. I watched them when they visited the President. Politics is participatory. Election is voluntary. Nobody can force you to come and contest election. It is only in Nigeria that I see people segregating between the old and the young. In Europe, America and Britain in particular, you have people who are close to 80 years or more in the parliament. They have been in that parliament for 40 to 60 years. When I was in England, our Rep had been in Labour party for about 42 years. You have people who have been Borough chairmen, what you call local government here and he has been close to seventy years in that position. There they consider what you have been able to achieve over the years. There is what you call dole. It is a welfare package for the people. In a place like Sheffield, you don’t pay tax. The whole of Yorkshire is within that dole.  People move from one area to that area just for that purpose. Any Rep who argues that such package should be retained can be returned to the parliament as many times as possible. There is a criteria in returning anybody other than you winning an election and being able to maintain the welfare package. If you can render good service for the people, your age does not matter. As long as the person is healthy and has no underlining terminal disease, you can be voted for. How confident are you that your party, PDP, will take over government at the centre in 2023? Every political party looks forward to that and PDP is not an exception. What will determine a party winning any election is the performance of the party. If the party has done well and the people are happy with it, they will vote. When a leaf is coming from up down to the ground, you cannot determine which side of the leaf will touch the ground until it finally lands. Incomplete combustible substance, otherwise referred to as black soot is one problem confronting the residents of Rivers state today, we have seen effort of the state Governor in combating this menace, what is your take on this? First of all, I want to commend the governor for what he has done. It takes a strong-willed leader to take up such fight. It is a problem that concerns human being and their welfare. This thing has its effect on those illegal miners as well as the populace. It requires a very strong-willed leader to take a very strong decision to stop the soot. We are beginning to see some results. Before now, you would have seen that the whole of this place would have been filled with whitish substance but if you touch it, it turns to black. I commend the governor for his effort. And I also want to advise the people involved in this sort of business that in every money they make, it affects the lives of other people. It is evil money. Blood money. I want to also commend some of the local government chairmen. Not all of them. The Obio/Akpor. Emohua, Ikwerre, Port Harcourt and few others are really doing well. The incentive of N2million for every spot identified is a very good motivator. They are doing well to put an end to the bunkering menace. We appreciate the governor for daring the operators of this illegal business into the forest. It is very risky to do that. In my village, some of these boys do the business in their homes where people live. You can see how dangerous that could be. So, I appreciate the governor and I want to call on everyone to give him the needed support he deserves.