….Warns Troublemakers ABUJA – As the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) elects its council chairmen and councillors, the Chairman of Bwari Area Council and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), John Gabaya has expressed concern over the slow function of the Bi-modal Voters Accreditation System (BIVAS). Speaking to journalists shortly after casting his vote at Polling Unit 002, in Tokulo Primary School, Igu Ward, Bwari, Gabaya also warned trouble makers to steer clear the election areas as they are ready to face them. Buratai Boasts Of Modernised Nigerian Army Tricycle Riders Seek Separation From NURTW, Independent Union Gabaya, who voted about 9:30 am, noted that the BIVAS machine is not picking up quickly to identify faces. He said: “I have just voted in my polling unit and the challenges I realised that we might face, though I am the first person to be accredited and voted, the BIVAS machine we are using is an electronic device and it is a device that we know will do the right thing at the right time. “In terms of maybe manoeuvring or doing anything that is not supposed to be in an election, BIVAS will sort it out. “The BIVAS machine is not picking up quickly to identify the face, that is, thumb printing has been the major challenge of the BIVAS. I pray that as the voters continue voting it will improve.” Expressing further concern, Gabaya asked what would be the solution if the machine continue to delay, adding, “I have asked that severally, because, I can see what is happing. POLL “It took about five minutes before the BIVAS captured my details. So I don’t know how it is going to be with thousands and millions of people that are going to vote in FCT today. I think capturing with the BIVAS machine is the major challenge we are going to face.” On the issue of security, Gabaya, who said that they are ready for any trouble maker, called on all the FCT voters who have come out to vote, to vote for the candidates of their choice. He said that the election will be peaceful, free and fair. The Bwari Council Chairman said: “In terms of security, we thank God the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, has done the best he could by deploying military personnel to all polling units. “I, therefore, want to call with a loud voice to the voters that whoever is ready to make trouble, we are ready to make trouble with the person. Therefore come out en-mass and vote peacefully. The Lord will see us through.”