ABAKALIKI – Controversies yesterday trailed the election of Ebonyi State chapter of Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC), following the alleged exclusion of some political parties including the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the contest. The election was held at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Ebonyi state, office to elect new leaders that will pilot the affairs of the council for the next two years. Trouble started when it was announced that only 14 political parties were accredited for the election, excluding the PDP and others. Aisha Buhari, Dolapo Osinbajo, Ifeanyi Uba, Nollywood Stars Join… Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… Mr Chika Samuel of the ADP had moved a motion and seconded by Catherine Ohakam of APM for the dissolution of the former executives of the council, to enable the election to commence. But the representative of the PDP who is the Deputy Chairman of the patty, Ifeanyi Nworie, moved a counter-motion calling for the suspension of the election. Nworie alleged that there was no transparency in the processes that led to the exercise and accused the Special Assistant to Governor Dave Umahi on Labour and Interparty Affairs, Mrs Jenifer Adibe of hijacking the process to favour the state government. He said, “I am appearing in protest and bringing to your attention the irregularities in the processes of this exercise and the unlawful exclusion of my party, the PDP, in the ongoing election. It was a deliberate and calculated effort to scheme our party out of this election.” Nworie while giving background to the origin of the matter further said, “On 29th December 2021, the SA to the Governor on Inter-party Dialogue, Jenifer Adibe called for a meeting in her office and directed that anybody who had an interest in the election should soft pedal, that she wanted the current executives that was just dissolved to come back for second tenure unopposed. POLL “This brought a lot of controversies and the meeting was marred with quarrels because where a political party will be for-closed in involvement in the election, I wouldn’t know how it will look like.” Also, Comrade Morgan Nnaemeka of the ADC also challenged Adibe and called for the suspension of the election. Both Nworie and Nnaemeka submitted petitions against the election before IPAC national officials, even as they engaged the IPAC national officials verbally leading to a rowdy session. The duo of Nworie and Nnaemeka later walked out of the venue of the election as the officials did not act on their protests. Reacting, Mrs Adibe said that the law provides that she calls for a meeting over IPAC election as SA on Inter-party Affairs to avoid breakdown of law and order. UEFA Expects €7 Billion In Pandemic Losses Take Prompt Against Alleged Sponsors Of Terrorists, Afenifere… “There have been a lot of crises in IPAC. So, I have tried to stabilize the system and not to cage them. so, nobody was told not to participate in the election”, she said. The election, however, later held with former leaders of the council returned unopposed.