…Calls For Reduction Of Exclusive Legislative List Items LAGOS – Concerned about rising insecurity, terrorism, kidnapping and sacking of villages, the pan Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, has advocated for the democratization of the police force. The organisation in a press statement on Wednesday, signed by Comrade Jare Ajayi, its National Publicity Secretary, regretted that the insecurity seems to be enveloping the country and the government appears to be losing grip of how to tackle the menace, even as it harped on the need to have state and local government police established. The group berated the National Assembly which recently voted against the empowerment of state governments to set up state police.  Afenifere urged the state governors and members of the states’ Houses of Assembly to mount pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to allow state police if they are sincere about putting an end to the menace. According to Afenifere, the latest reports shows that many farmers in Ondo, Ekiti, Ogun, Imo, Abia, Benue and the Zamfara States have been kidnapped with some of them killed while communities in Kaduna, Sokoto, Borno, Niger, and Nassarawa have been sacked by gun-wielding terrorists. “The Borno State Governor Babangana Zulum while commiserating with his Zamfara State counterpart in Gusau, lamented that over 100,000 people have been killed by terrorists in his state in recent times. He was in Zamfara State to condole with Governor Bello Matawale over the devastations wreaked by terrorists on lives and properties in the northwestern state last week. “Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai early this week was close to tears when reeling out the statistics of thousands of lives of people that have been killed, maimed and turned into widows and orphans by terrorists in his state. Many poultry and crop farms in Oyo and Ogun States have been closed down as a result of constant attacks by kidnappers and armed herders,” the statement reads. It added, “Even Katsina State, the birthplace of President Muhammadu Buhari, is not spared as reports coming from that state kept posting near-daily acts of insurgency and terrorism that lead to loss of lives and properties as testified to by the State “Governor Bello Masari.  A few hours after President Buhari arrived Daura, Katsina State on December 14, 2021, armed gunmen invaded a government-owned secondary school in Kankara and abducted about 600 students. Afenifere observed that the spate of security and safety infractions make it look like Nigeria is in a state of war, and challenged those at the helms of affairs to be more sincere in finding effective solutions to the problem. “The immediate strategies to end the scourge are to quickly allow states and local government councils to have their own police force, strengthen the existing security forces and motivate security personnel adequately. “Government should create the atmosphere for youths in the country to be productively engaged, respect the rule of law including fundamental rights of the Nigerian citizens as well as stop treating terrorists and bandits with kid gloves,” ASfenifere stated. The organisation called for the amendment of section 214 of the 1999 Constitution to enable states and local government councils to have their own police forces, stressing that the section which made the Nigeria Police Force exclusive to the central government (FG) should be reviewed to read. “The National Assembly, States Houses of Assembly and the Local Government Legislative Arm shall legislate on police and security matters in their respective areas of jurisdiction. Euro Surges As Record Inflation Adds Pressure On ECB Court Adjourns Hearing Of $130m Suit Against SAIPEM “In the 1999 Constitution, 68 items are on the Exclusive Legislative List while only 12 are on the Concurrent List, meaning that only the federal government can act on 68 items that have to do with the lives of Nigerians while states that are closer to the people can act only on 12 items. “It must be changed to vest more power on states and local governments especially on issues like security, natural resources, education, health, transport etcetera,” the statement further reads.