LAGOS – Ahead of the mega party, Third Force party  launch in Abuja on 8th March of, NCFront, Third Force Movement has met in Ibadan and elected South-West zonal leaders. The third force movement under the umbrella of the National Consultative Front, NCFront led by a group of Leaders of Conscience that includes, Prof Pat Utomi, Prof Attahiru Jega, Dr Olisa Agbakoba SAN, Hon Dr Usman Bugaje, Prof Kingsley Moghalu, Engr Buba Galadima, among others elected its coordinating officers in southwest region to pioneer the activities of the movement in the zone ahead of the formal launch of the much awaited alternative mega party of the Third Force slated to hold on March 8th in Abuja. In a communique issued at the end signed by  NCFront, Third Force Movement Meets in Ibadan and signed by the new Chairman and Secretary of the Third Force Movement in Southwest, the new leadership of the movement in the Southwest “emerge on Thursday in Ibadan during the General Assembly of Third Force Leaders organised by the National Secretariat of the National Consultative Front, NCFront held in Ibadan on Thursday.” Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… New Electoral Act Will Deepen Nigeria’s Democracy –… In his address, the National Secretary of NCFront and Convener of the Third Force Movement of Nigeria, Sir Olawale Okunniyi described the NCFront as a movement of Leaders of Conscience initiated to rescue the country from pervasive misrule and growing impunity in government that have cast doubt and gloom on the future of Nigeria. Okunniyi, while explaining why the third force movement was yet to adopt any political party inspite of the agitations of Nigerians, said it was due to pressure on the leadership of the third force to absorb and accommodate more interested movements, stakeholders and allies into the fold of the alternative mega movement. He however commended the leadership of the Nigerian Labour Movement for being a huge impetus to the third Force initiative to rescue Nigeria, promising that leaders of the Third Force Movement shall be part of Nigeria Workers political conference holding in Abuja on 2nd March. He also welcome some new movements launched recently into the third force under the coordinating umbrella of the National Consultative Front, NCFront. He also assured that the country would witness the birth of the much awaited people’s movement soon as plans have been perfected to launch the mega party by the first week of March. According to him some of the parties being consistent for adoption and fusion of the various partners are; People’s Redemption Party, PRP, African Democratic Congress, ADC, National Rescue Movement, NRM and Zenith Labour Party, ZLP POLL He therefore implored leaders and delegates from the six states in the Southwest in attendance at the meeting to try and accommodate more youths and women into the fold saying that the movement is about the youths and the vulnerable. He said the third force in Nigeria is the government in waiting as Nigerians are tired of the self serving rule of the  present parties in power, urging all Nigerians to support the ballot revolution of the Third Force in 2023 While formalizing its zonal structure in Southwest, the assembly elected the following leaders to run the affairs of the movement ahead of the Launching of its Mega Party as follows: Mr Lanre Adenuga from Lagos State was elected as Chairman, Engr Jagun Abiodun from Ogun State was elected as Vice Chairman, while Hon Lanre Fadahunsi from Osun State emerged as the Secretary, Mr Olusola Ayodele from Oyo State became the Treasurer. Others elected by the zonal congress includes, Barr Thompson Akinyemi, Esq from Ondo as Publicity Secretary while Wasiu Olanrewaju from Osun State was voted as Youth Leader and Prince Adesina Bashorun from Ogun State endorsed as Elder and Barr Ademola Okeya, Esq from Ekiti became an Legal Adviser of the Zone. The new zonal leadership was subsequently inaugurated by the Head of National Secretariat of the Third Force Movement, Sir Olawale Okunniyi, who again in his closing remarks urged the new zonal officers of the NCFront to see their emergence as a call to duty with a view to making sacrifices in mobilising the people Southwest to build formidable structures in the six states in the zone ahead of the Third Force Mega Party slated for launching on March 8th. Electoral Act: CNPP Hails Nigerians, Says Clause 84(12) Must… Electoral Act: National Assembly, A Very Mischievous… In his acceptance speech, the new zonal Chairman, Mr Lanre Adenuga, on behalf of all other elected officers, pledged and assured the Zonal Assembly of their loyalty to the values, principles and agenda of the third force movement to rescue Nigeria from misrule and self inflicted poverty and misery come 2023.