The Delta Central 2023 (DC-23) lobby group has urged the political classes and stakeholders in Delta state to key into the three aspirants, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi and Olorogun David Edevbie who were successful at the final screening/pruning down of governorship aspirants of Delta Central Senatorial District by the group. The National Chairman of DC-23 who made this known on behalf of the group while speaking with Journalists at Asaba, the Delta state capital, said now that the three aspirants had been screened and adopted, the group was ready to market them to the people of Delta state to enable them choose from any of the three. According to him, “any of them can become the governor of Delta state. As from today, they are the names we will push forward. We have also advised our people in Delta Central, Delta South and Delta North Senatorial District to support these three persons for the governorship of Delta state. Edo 14 Assembly Members Elect: Ovia APC Youth Leader Accuses Edo… Oboro Congratulates State PDP Scribe On His Birthday Anniversary “You may have been with A or B, but now that we have reduced the number to three, join their campaign trains and support any of them. We have chosen, examine, put all parameters into consideration and they met our minimum requirements to become the governor of Delta state,” he added. He reiterated that all those who had been supporting A, B, C or D before now should key into and collapse all their initial support into the structure of A, B & C. “That is, the structures of Olorogun David Edevbie, Chief Kenneth Gbagi and Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori,” he said. Amori averred that everybody could not be governor at same time, appealing strongly to those who were not lucky enough to be chosen as one of the three to accept it in good faith. “I know that there is a place in history for them; it is not that they were not chosen because they were not qualified, they were not rejected by anyone, but somehow in any examination, somebody must come first, second and third. 4th, 5th, 6th are not within our plan; hence, we did the screening to chose 1, 2, 3 and that is what we have done. Those were not lucky to be among the three doesn’t mean that they were not qualified or meet certain criteria. Even if two people have first class, there must be a first class within the class,” he said.