Warns against victimisation  of his supporters A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, has disclosed that neither he nor members of his political family will leave the party over alleged irregularities in the just concluded governorship primaries in Ekiti. The APC stalwart also declared that he won’t be challenging in court, the victory of the party’s candidate, Honourable Biodun Oyebanji, in the shadow poll for the sake of unity and cohesion in the APC. Jim Ovia Foundation, Zenith Bank Gift 3,500 Tablets To Indigent… IGP Charges Strategic Police Managers On Intelligence-Driven… Bamidele, who is representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District  and  governorship aspirant clarified this in a statement he personally signed on Friday, 10th February 2022 and made available to journalists in Ado Ekiti, The legislator said he jettisoned his earlier position after critical stakeholders had intervened and appealed to him to sheathe his sword. “Yet, in spite of my strong convictions as expressed above, I have come to some irreversible conclusions and these are the messages I need to pass on to all and sundry today as I temporarily break my silence on the way forward. One is to say that I have chosen to drop the option of going to court to sue the party. “The other is to make it crystal clear to everyone that both my supporters and I will not defect from APC. Details of the reasons which informed these choices will be communicated at a later date when my supporters and I address Ekiti people and Nigerians at large. It is not just about me. “It is about the unity and progress of Ekiti State and her politically undermined and economically afflicted people. It is also about ensuring that the ground is not prepared for reactionary beneficiaries to take advantage of seeming lack of capacity to manage our affairs as a ruling party in the State. POLL “I also must coordinate and lead my own aspect of this popular struggle in a way to ensure that my supporters and stakeholders who had been isolated from the mainstream of the party become relevant again, for anything short of that can only be a highway to nowhere. “We have all contributed so much to building this party in Ekiti State and the management, as well as its decision-making process, cannot be an exclusive preserve of a few. “That is the new reality that those in control, including our national leadership, must accept or it becomes a popular subject matter of a struggle around which a popular movement must be built. This is where I stand”. Bamidele posited that, though he still harbours resentment against the January 27 primary, which he described as a sham, charade and flagrant abrasion of democracy ethos, he restated he won’t seek redress in court or defect from APC despite the electoral malfeasance that dogged the poll. Bamidele, had shortly after the primary threatened to challenge the primary that produced former Secretary to the State Government as a candidate in a controversial fashion legally, alleging that it was brazenly skewed and manipulated by Governor Abubakar Badaru-led APC committee.