BENIN – The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, (NDLEA), Edo State Command says the state has ranked low since it intensified the war on drug barons, illicit drug, drug abusers, dealers and their likes nationwide. An official of the agency who pleaded anonymity, in a chat with newsmen said that not less than 30 states are under pressure over the new wave of anti-drug campaigns and operations of the agency. Investigation revealed that Edo State seems to be relatively free from attacks, launched by the agency recently. CERANY, NDLEA Advise Students Against Drug Abuse NEPC, Stakeholders Chart Path For Improved Export From Edo It was revealed that “there were years when Edo State was a safe haven for drug abusers, drug dealers and drug barons. “Those were the years when parents were not informed of the persistent activities of drug dealers. “Today, in our schools, we have a scheme of work for drug-free sensitisation, even in our National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), there’s this NDLEA Community Development Service, CDS. “So, the agency has really done well in the fight against illicit drug intakes, destructive drug dealers and merchandise of drug abuse. We are really happy Edo is not under attack by the agency. “Not that there are no drug dealers in Edo, but the ability of the agency in Edo State to curb their unwanted activities has really spurred the result we see today. Kudos to the operatives of the agency in Edo; how I wish other states can understudy Edo NDLEA,” our source said. POLL A visit to the State premises of the agency in Benin City revealed that it was littered with vehicles impounded from suspected drug barons who were alleged to be transiting through Edo State to other states. The vehicles were mainly of high standard Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV). It was also observed that due to the poor state of infrastructure at the premises, it has relocated senior operatives of the agency to the veranda for use as office space. Attempt to seek the opinion of the State Commander was not successful as he was said to be away on an official assignment.