LAGOS  – The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Ports and Terminal Multi-Purpose Services Limited (PTML) Command, said it handled 199,487:00 tons of export goods worth N132,451,819,461.62 last year 2021. Comptroller Festus Ayodele Okun, Customs Area Controller of the Command who disclosed this to Daily Independent, said the command sustained and improved on various measures emplaced to enhance facilitation of legitimate trade as part of the achievements recorded last year by the command. According to him, “Some of these measures were in the area of capacity building for officers, strengthening of the dispute resolution committee and building a strong team for quality service delivery, thus engendering ease of doing business,” adding that the command has a functional help-desk, while keeping its doors open to stakeholders for direct access. MAN Oron Attributes Mass Failure Of COC Exams To Students’… How Customs Intercepted N79m Unregistered Drugs, Nine Containers… Comptroller Okun, noted that the achievements of the command last year were not devoid of challenges, but that they were able to surmount a greater percentage of the challenges. According to him, the poor state of the access roads to the port and the accompanying gridlock impacted negatively on the turn-around time of the movement of cargos outside the port, and movement of export cargos into the port. “Furthermore, the movement of officers and other stakeholders were largely affected, leading to loss of man hours. “Also, there cases of our personnel being involved in avoidable accidents. However, we must state that we benefitted from the improvement in the area of port access roads when compared with the previous year.” He said that another challenge the command had last was connected with the volatile nature of the environment they operated, adding however, that with effective stakeholders’ engagements, “we were able to control the situation and sustain the relative peace we have been enjoying. POLL “Another area of challenge is the issue of 100% physical examination of containerized cargo. This is due to absence of scanners in the port. “We are hoping that this will soon be a thing of the past once the e-Customs project is fully implemented.” “I wish to state that in spite of the challenges faced in the year 2021, it was a successful year for the command, having been able to improve on our performances in the year when compared with the previous year, 2020.” The Customs boss said that as regularly done, they have concluded their “SWOT Analysis”, and mapped out strategies to build on the successes recorded in the year 2021. “We will build and improve on our areas of strength, work on weaknesses identified, take our opportunities right from the low hanging to the challenging ones and put measures in place to deal with the threats. We’re Guided By Rule Of Law – Ojo ANLCA Laments 30,000 Job Losses To Border Closure,… “By so doing, we forecast a better performance in the year 2022.” The Controller said that their projection for the year 2022 is to be able to consolidate on the gains of the year 2021 in the areas of faithful and effective implementation of government fiscal policies, raising the level of competence by all critical stakeholders in the supply-chain. Comptroller Okun commended the Controller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd.) and his management team for the support “we have enjoyed, their inspiring leadership, giving us direction and guiding us a right. “We also appreciate him for additional operational vehicles we received during the year under review,” adding that this had impacted positively on their operations.