UGHELLI – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Executive Assistant to Governor of Delta State on Community and Rural Development, Dr. Andrew Omagbemi Igban, has formerly declared his interest to contest for Delta State House of Assembly, Warri South West Constituency seat cone 2023. Dr Igban, who made the official declaration during a consultative meeting with PDP executives in Warri South West Local Government Area, said he has all it takes, including experience and contacts to provide quality representation to the people at the State Assembly. He stated that he had always been deeply involved in activities aimed at promoting peace, good governance and development in the state, stressing that his desire to serve at the State Legislature was to further better the lot of the people to the greater benefit of the society. 2023: Nobody Should Spoil Ubuluisiuzo, Osumoghu’s Chances… Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… The former State PDP Youth Leader explained that the interactive meeting was to interface with the local government and ward executives of the party and officially inform them of his intention to represent the people of Warri South West in the State Assembly. He described the 68 member LGA and ward exco as “super delegates”, maintaining that their individual and collective support was required to actualize his ambition. The Chairman, PDP, Warri South West, Chief Favour Zuokumor, commended Dr Andrew Igban for coming to interface with statutory delegates in the local government area, ahead of the party primaries. Chief Zuokumor said he so much cherished the caliber of personalities in the local government area that are showing interest in various electoral contests, maintaining that what could made a party strong was the contest for electoral positions by great men. “We are highly honored by the visit of a great personality to interface with the party on his aspiration. What makes party strong is when great men like Hon Andrew Igban contest. The message is that PDP is a family affair and the party will give a neutral platform for every aspirant. I urge all to play by the rules. I have that strong belief that after the primaries, the party will come out stronger. This is just the beginning of several politicking in the year. POLL “PDP will win all the elective positions in warri South West. I urge all PDP supporters and faithful to match on collectively including at the federal level as Nigerians are tired of APC miss rule”, he stated.