LAGOS – Nigerian Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare on Thursday, called for sport diplomacy for the overall development of the country. Dare alongside the Director-General, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Professor Eghosa Osaghae, and a former Super Eagles Star, Segun Odegbami, made this call at the first of its kind sports colloquium, ‘Sport Diplomacy’ lecture, held at the NIIA in Lagos. The Minister of Sports explained that sports should be introduced to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and areas of conflict for the overall development of the country, adding that competitions should also be introduced as sports without competition would yield no result. Nigeria Loses 2,038 Persons To Air Crashes In 53yrs – AIB… FCT Council Polls’ Result Signposts PDP’s Rescue… “What we should do is to introduce sports to our IDPs’ Camps and areas of conflict. Sports without competition is also not productive. When you introduce this, make sure you place competition. “I have read several accounts and seen several videos coming from our IDPs even from the efforts made by Governor Zulum where in the IDPs camps, someone just simply went with ten balls and before you knew it, they have formed five different teams,” Dare said. Professor Osaghae on his part, said sport diplomacy preaches peace, sharing, and togetherness, adding that it can be used as a platform for non-violent resolutions. He stated that Nigerians are making their marks in all parts of the world and sporting events. The DG concluded saying sports bring the narrative of competence, and victory on the image of the country. POLL According to him, “Sport diplomacy is as old as mankind. It is one instrument of policy making that preaches peace, sharing, and togetherness. It is a platform that can be used for non-violence resolutions. “It promotes unity, brotherhood, and the only part of our lives where people who lose and people who win can still get together. In all parts of the world and in all sporting events, there are Nigerians who are making their marks. “Even without us saying so, they are already ambassadors of Nigeria. So, what we are saying first is to see how we can harness this tool, strengthen the capacities those people have. Those in sports bring the narrative of competence and victory on the image of the country.” Odegbami said the idea is for the development of Nigerians and Africans, adding that such is possible through sports. The ex-Nigerian star stated that sport is the most powerful weapon in the world and it is bigger than religion discrimination. 2023: Nigeria Owes Southeast So Much, Should Consider Region For… Nigeria Ignores Funding Technology But Investing In Corruption… “We want development for Nigerians and Africans. And this can only be possible by sports. Sport is the most powerful weapon in the world. It is bigger than religion. It does not discriminate. If you are good, you are good. “There is no power as sport just like Nelson Mandela said that sport can change the world. Sport is interesting. It is enjoyable. Sport has the power to change the world,” Odegbami added.