LAGOS – Hon. Shina Peller, a member of the House of Representatives, has charged Nigerians, particularly the youths, to strive and build strong institutions that would last forever instead of building strong individuals. Peller stated this during the recent launch of South West We2geda Movement, an organization formed to champion inclusiveness and good governance, among others, in the country, of which he is the national coordinator. The federal lawmaker said youths must build a new system that would make the present Nigerian system obsolete, saying it is high time godfatherism was expunged in the nation’s politics. Children Locked In As Security, Bailiffs Enforce Court Order In… Akwa Ibom Enmeshed In Employment Scandal “It is high time we focused on building strong institutions that will last forever rather than powerful individuals who have turned themselves to gods on earth. This is exactly what We2geda Movement aims to achieve, and though we know it is a very difficult, we are very optimistic that with the continued support and cooperation of great minds that make up the movement, we’ll achieve it. “You may want to ask, how do we achieve this? Yes, we can address and achieve this by changing our style of politics of anointing and imposing candidates on the electorates. We are now in a century where political godfatherism and imposition should be discouraged and jettisoned. “Fellow young vibrant Nigerians, it is very important that we are very strategic in our approaches, actions and activities if truly we want to make a positive change. My dear people, God doesn’t make mistakes and he has given every generation the opportunity to achieve the best for themselves through their strength and valuable assets.” “My dear loving people, this is the time for us to come together as one to address and solve numerous problems confronting us as a generation. At this very moment, we have the opportunity to leverage on our strength to make a positive change. Our strength includes our number as we occupy about 75 percent of our country’s population.” “I am so delighted to stand here before you all to speak as the National Coordinator of We2geda Movement as we launch We2geda South West today. This gathering strengthens my belief that truly we will get Nigeria back on the right trajectory through this formidable movement.” POLL “In trying to make this possible, we must be ready to make some sacrifices. For instance, before I ventured into politics, I was doing very fine in my businesses, and even my Abuja Quilox project was progressing very fast. But after I joined the politics, I abandoned the project and dedicated my time, personal resources to making positive impacts on the people, even at the detriment of my businesses,” he said. Speaking during the occasion, Dr. Linus Okorie, director of GOTNI Leadership Centre, said: “As young people we have to compete with reality and the very best. “I am talking about reality in terms of communication that will transform Nigeria, this movement is coming together to make Nigeria happen.” On his own, Ibrahim Abdulkareem, chairman board of trustees of We2geda, said: ”The idea that brought the initiative was that the founding fathers were bound to creating a society of hate, which has to stop. “The intention is to link to other African countries, which our leaders have missed out. It’s not about us but our future, children and country. The intention is to have at least 250 people in each ward to help reach out to young people.”