LAGOS  – Lafarge Africa Plc., one of the leading Sub-Saharan Africa building solutions company and member of Holcim, has announced the launch of the Lafarge Driving Institute in its Ewekoro plant in Ogun State, South- West Nigeria. The Lafarge Driving Institute in the South-West is the second of-its-kind created by the building solutions company following the commissioning of the first driving institute in the South East in 2017. The company has continued to provide drivers who have enrolled in the institute with industry-leading training programs tailored to the needs of Nigerian heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) such as trucks, trailers and articulated vehicles drivers. External Reserves Slide To Four Months Low At $39.98bn Arla Partners Tolaram On Kaduna Commercial Dairy Farm Mr. Khaled El Dokani, Country CEO of Lafarge Africa Plc., while speaking at the launch of the event, stressed Lafarge’s commitment to improving health and safety within its operations and ultimately in its wider community. He said: “At Lafarge, we recognise that we have a job to do in improving road safety and we are committed to investing in safety innovation, both within our organisation and along our supply chain. We see safety as key to creating sustainable and profitable operations – boosting productivity and increasing operational efficiencies and business performance in a tangible way.” According to El Dokani, the continuing number of deaths and serious injuries on our roads demands concrete mitigation action. We must institute appropriate measures to improve road safety. Data received from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) showed that between August 2020 and June 2021, 1,070 crashes involving heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) such as trucks, trailers and articulated vehicles occurred. He specifically said: “One major way to reduce road-related incidents and achieve our goal is to raise the standard of driver training in our operation and ensure drivers think about safety first and always while on the road. Embedding a strong culture of road safety at the heart of HVG drivers is paramount. This requires the right training and coaching to understand the risks involved in performing their task, shape their behaviours and to develop safety processes.” POLL “As an organisation, our ambitions remain the same as they did when the first Lafarge Driving Institute was established in 2017: efficient, sustainable and safe road transport. There is no denying the fact that we’ve had a good run these past few years. With the opening of this new centre, we are now extending the same amazing opportunity to more people by bringing it to the southwest.”