UYO – There is every likelihood that other gubernatorial aspirants under Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State have not been slowed down or weakened by Governor Udom Emmanuel’s anointed successor. This could be deduced from the major political activities and appointments still ongoing even after the anointed candidate was presented to Akwa Ibom stakeholders and the entire apparatus of the government shut down for his consultations. Notable of these activities include the appointment of Chief Usoro I. Usoro, PhD as the official spokesman of the Akwa Ubok Abasi Campaign Organisation – the electioneering structure of Senator Bassey Albert Akpan. Euro Surges As Record Inflation Adds Pressure On ECB Court Adjourns Hearing Of $130m Suit Against SAIPEM A release signed by the Chairman of the organisation, Arch Bishop Andrew Unwanta, said the need for an official spokesman followed the astronomical growth of the team and the seriousness of its operations. Also, South-South Youth Assembly in a release signed by Comr. Victor Sage Thompson on behalf of Akwa Ibom Youth Mandate commended the elders for their choice and endorsement of a successor for Governor Udom Emmanuel. The youths have however presented Barr Onofiok Luke, Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary and former Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly as their own candidate for the gubernatorial candidate for 2023. “We take a stand, we have assessed and examined the process of leadership recruitment in Akwa Ibom State, we have examined and assessed every aspirant that is seeking to occupy the office of the governor of Akwa Ibom State and we have come to a conclusion that it is only one person that meets our criteria, we have come to a conclusion that it is only one person we all yearn for who will be the governor of the people by the people and for the people and that is in the person of Rt. Hon. Barr. Onofiok Akpan Luke. “We believe that the majority of Akwa Ibom youths agree with us that with Onofiok Luke in the seat of the governor, we are going to breathe fresh air, we are going to experience a turnaround in the politics, governance and development of Akwa Ibom State. POLL “Onofiok Akpan Luke is the only aspirant in Akwa Ibom State that has clearly demonstrated capacity experience and ability to execute the demands of the office of the governor of Akwa Ibom State. “Onofiok Akpan Luke is the only aspirant that has shown and demonstrated capacity to execute the content of his blueprint are, Onofiok Akpan Luke is the only person that has articulated what he intends to do when we give him the chance to become governor and with the knowledge, we have about what he stands for and about what the young people of Akwa Ibom State stands to gain with him as the governor of Akwa Ibom State we are pulling our full weight of support behind him. “With that being said, We, Akwa Ibom Youth Mandate hereby declare Rt. Hon. Barr. Onofiok Akpan Luke, a one-time leader of the University of Uyo student union government, SUG, a one-time personal assistant to the Commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs, a one-time personal assistant to the governor of Akwa Ibom State, a Pioneer Speaker of the Nigerian youth parliament a two-time member representing Nsit Ubium State constituency in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and a one time speaker of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly of Akwa Ibom State and presently a member representing Etinan, Nsit Ibom, Nsit Ubium Federal constituency in the Nigerian House of Representatives and the Chairman House Committee on judiciary our full support to run for the office of the governor of Akwa Ibom State,” the release stated. At the ongoing consultation by the Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umo Eno, Governor Udom Emmanuel’s preferred successor at Government House, Uyo, the Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Moses Ekpo has appealed to all governorship aspirants seeking nomination on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Akwa Ibom State to close ranks and work together for the good of the state. Mr. Moses Ekpo noted that God has always had a hand in choosing leaders in every society, citing his own case when throughout his career, God has always surprised him with appointments even with his having to be desperate. [BREAKING] AFCON: Mane Scores As Senegal Beat Burkina Faso To… Hike In Fees: Senate Moves To Avert Impending Crisis In Tertiary… He narrated his experience when he was first appointed as Commissioner For Information, Cross River State and his reluctance to accept that role over his responsibilities at the Federal Ministry of Information and how it took persuasion for him to come and take up the responsibility in the state.Work stressed that Pastor Umo Eno is a man he has known in the executive council and a very intelligent team player who has always delivered on his assignments. “His background in business accounts for his work ethic and his ability to get things done quickly. I pray that God will bless you, protect you and give you the energy to keep running till you succeed”. Pastor Umo Eno was led on the visit by the Director General of the campaign, Chief Assam Assam, SAN, National Chairman, Maintain Peace Movement, Barr Emmanuel Enoidem, Senator Akon Eyakenyi among other executive council members of the Maintain Peace Movement.