President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the decision of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to postpone the party’s national convention earlier scheduled to hold this Saturday by minimum of two weeks, Daily Independent exclusively gathered. However, many stakeholders in the party, who are agitating that the convention should hold on its original scheduled date of February 26, are accusing the committee of mischief and attempt to perpetuate itself in office. Daily Independent had exclusively reported in its February 18 edition that the APC Caretaker Committee led by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, had agreed to shift the convention by a minimum of two weeks. Senate Tackles UniAbuja Over Non-Remittance Of N603m To… Buratai Denies Contesting 2023 Presidency A member of the caretaker committee, who confided in Daily Independent last week, had said there is a proposal by the committee to postpone the event as there are still lots of things that need to be put in place before the convention can hold. When asked on Sunday for the update on the convention, our source said the argument over whether the convention will still hold on February 26 or not has been laid to rest as President Buhari has granted an approval for its postponement. According to him, even before the president’s departure to Belgium for the 6th Europe- Africa summit, the Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Buni, who is in constant touch with him had already notified the president, who is the party’s leader on the need to postpone the convention and he agreed with them as the reasons advanced for the shift are cogent. One of the reasons canvassed by the Buni-led committee was that the governors, who are major stakeholders in the party, are yet to agree on the issue of consensus candidates and even the zone where the national chairman will emerge from. The Buni-led committee also said that they are still waiting for the final report of the Sen. Abdullahi Adamu-led APC National Reconciliation Committee, a document that is crucial to the holding of the convention. Another reason cited by the committee is the governorship primaries in Ekiti and Osun states, which even though have been concluded, the national leadership will still listen to appeals and reconcile those who lost out in order for the APC to go into the governorship elections as a united family. POLL Only three activities have been carried out so far of all the items listed by the party leadership with the convention being the last of all. The party leadership had, on January 31, received the interim report of its National Reconciliation Committee, and, on February 2, considered and adopted reports of state congresses. On February 3, it inaugurated state executives. However, sale of forms to aspirants vying for national offices scheduled to commence on February 14, did not happen as many aspirants who visited the party’s national secretariat were not attended to. By the timetable, aspirants were expected to submit completed forms and accompanying documents at the national secretariat on or before February 19, while the party will publish membership of its sub-committees same day. That also did not happen. “The convention can’t hold. That is certain. What I am not sure of is the new date being proposed but the extension can’t be anything less than two weeks. “Yes, it is likely that the governors will meet the president this week as they have not agreed among themselves on whether the convention should be postponed or not. But the caretaker committee chairman is in constant touch with the president and he has given him reasons why the February 26 date is no longer feasible. “If you remember, the new state chairmen were inaugurated on February 3. N20bn Assets At Risk As FAAN Plans Demolition Of Hangars NAFDAC Seizes 120 Tons Of Dangerous Imported ‘Ponmo’ In Lagos The state chairmen have written to the party leadership that they are not yet ready for the convention as they have just assumed office”. However, a chieftain of the party, who is against the planned shift in date, said Governor Buni and his cohorts are doing all they can to perpetuate themselves in office so that they can determine where the next president comes from. “If the caretaker committee had worked according to its timetable, I see no reason why the convention won’t hold this Saturday. But we have a situation whereby some few people who were just an interim caretaker committee now wants to perpetuate themselves in office so they can have a say in where the next presidential candidate of the party comes from. “For example, you release a timetable that you will commence sale of forms on February 14th, party members believed you and traveled to Abuja to get the forms but you refused to sell the forms to them for no reason. How do you explain that? I think the committee is not just sincere and they should stop taking party members for granted”.