Ekiti State-born former Students’ Union Leader, Gbenga Akomolafe, has declared an interest in running for the position of National Youths Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Akomolafe, a 2013 graduate of Glass of Ceramics Technology from the prestigious Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, also bagged a Post Graduate Diploma in  Business Administration from Nasarawa State University in 2017. The APC Youth Leader hopeful was active in the Students Unionism as he was elected the Director of Socials. He was also a Legislative Aide between 2011-2014. Leke Ogunsola: Group Defends Gbenga Daniel Over Police Security… Sowore To Make Presidential Declaration Next Week Speaking with SATURDAY INDEPENDENT about his political ambition, Akomolafe who hails from Ire Ward Two, in Ekiti State, said he had all it takes to represent the teaming youths population in the ruling party in Nigeria. He promised to use his robust influence and networks with many students bodies and youths groups across the length and breadth of the country to promote the party’s ideology and programme. He said: “I think at this crucial moment of our nation’s history, integrity should be the watchword if we want to choose who will lead the youth wing of APC. “This is the time where so many of us have lost hope in some of the youth leaders that have led us in the past and we must ensure that whoever we are pushing forward now must have passed the integrity test in other for him to be able to win back the trust and confidence which will enable our party to be well-positioned ahead of the Presidential 2023. “If integrity, competence and strength should be considered, APC should look towards my direction, because I have a verifiable pedigree. POLL “Another point is engagement. That we will not only engage the youths but will also engage the system for the benefit of the youths,” Akomolafe said. On mobilization, the aspirant said: “I have the capacity to mobilize over 10 million youths, this will be done by working on all the existing youth structures of our great party. I will also identify and mobilize more youths structures to ensure victory for our party come 2023.”