***As WOYEIN Donates Starter Packs DAMATURU – Satisfied with the performance of Women and Youths Empowerment Initiative (WOYEIN) for the various support and programs executed enhancing development and reducing all forms of gender-based violence (GBV), Potiskum Local Government Area is to partner with Potiskum Local Government Area to enhance effective service. The Chairman of Potiskum local government council, Salisu Muktari revealed this while speaking at the graduation ceremony of the women survivors of GBV, Beneficiaries of the Apprenticeship program organized by WOYEIN in Potiskum LGA of the state and funded by the Women’s Peace and Humanitarian Fund (WPHF) and the EU-supported Spotlight Initiative on Ending Violence against Women and Girls, with technical support from UN Women. Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Confirmation Of Gumus, APC Member As INEC Commissioner, Coup… Represented by the vice, Adamu Hamza Ngojin, the Chairman says impact of the project is already being felt in the communities as the locally produced items by the beneficiaries are gradually gaining market. Government he assured will patronize these products and follow up with beneficiaries to ensure they are utilizing items given them for the benefit of their families and communities. He emphasized that the intervention will compliment Government effort towards ensuring women empowerment and safety. The Chairman thanked WOYEIN and UN Women for choosing Potiskum as one of the project communities while charging the beneficiaries to make proper use of packages. Briefing the gathering, the project lead who is also the Executive Director WOYEIN, Hajiya Husna Ibrahim says the project which was long started has enrolled 200 women survivors of GBV in four local government Areas of the state to include Gujba, Gaidam, Damaturu and Potiskum. POLL She emphasized that the aim of the WPHF – Spotlight Initiative program is to strengthen womens participation through leadership Development and Livelihood for reducing GBV in Yobe state. The program lead said the program has built the capacity of the beneficiaries on GBV and related areas as well as apprenticeship program to build their choice skills, hence the starter packs being distributed now to enable them start economic activities and boost their participation to developments in their communities. Husna revealed that the program is to compliment government effort, appealing that government should continue such gestures even after the exit of the program. The occasion was blessed with the goodwill blessings from the Emir of Fika who is also the Chairman Yobe State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Muhammadu Abali Ibn Muhammadu Idrissa and the Emir of Pataskum, Alhaji Umaru Bubaram Ibn Wuriwa Bauya, who were both represented. The Royal Fathers all lauded the program noting that over 20,000 households have benefited the program. (UPDATED) Jonathan’s Abducted Relative Regains Freedom… Udom Emmanuel Receives Backing Over Choice Of Successor In her welcome address WOYEIN Gender Officer Asabe Abdullahi Abubakar stated that 50 women will be given starter packages to begin skills acquired, such as tailoring, shoe and bag making, catering, soap and detergent making. She disclosed that the women who have learnt tailoring are also producing reusable sanitary pads and should be encourage and patronized by partners and government for distribution to vulnerable women in the communities. Appreciating the gesture, some of the beneficiaries revealed the successes already recorded so far raging from economic and financial boasting, women networking for peace and leadership participation to self-esteem regaining. They pledged to make judicious use of the items received for the overall benefit of their families and communities while thanking WOYEIN and UN Women for the Program.