Amid final preparations for the sixth summit between the African Union (AU) and the European Union (EU) to be hosted on 17-18 February in Brussels, a network of leading research universities spanning both continents have reiterated a recent call on governments to foreground research and innovation capacity in Africa as a fundamental pillar for the next few years of geopolitical cooperation. In particular, the universities are seeking support for the development of 40 clusters of excellence for five years at emerging research universities in Africa. This would expand on similar existing structures that have been supported by various global partners, according to a statement by the African Research Universities Alliance (ARUA), a network of 16 research universities, following a board meeting on 2nd February. JAMB Has No Business In Varsity Enrolment – ASUU Teach For Nigeria Commits To Growing 20,000 Leaders,… “It is becoming urgent that these clusters of research excellence … are properly supported and coordinated,” ARUA said in a statement to outline its position ahead of the AU-EU Summit, which will be chaired by France. “These are intended to be clusters … that will bring together researchers in various stages of their careers from all over Africa, Europe and the rest of the world to work on realising African research goals.” “The clusters will be the channel for developing world-class research infrastructure at African universities. They will be the vehicles for attracting researchers in the Diaspora as they provide similar environments as may be found anywhere in the Global North,” the statement added. Ernest Aryeetey, secretary-general of ARUA, told University World News, “We are initially looking at N20 million [about US$23 million] per cluster per annum for 10 years. It will cover new infrastructure, doctoral training, post-doctoral training and interdisciplinary globally competitive and relevant research.” Although the fifth AU-EU summit in 2017 has already recognised the advanced research and innovation capacity of African universities as a priority for the African-European partnership, ARUA has been working closely with the Guild of European Research-Intensive Universities (the Guild), which has 21 members, to operationalise the role of higher education institutions in various collaborative initiatives.