LAGOS – A Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP Bamidele Oluse­gun, on Monday told a Coro­ner Magistrate presided by Mikhail Kadiri that staff of Dowen College were indicted in the first legal advice issued by the Director of Public Pros­ecutions (DPP). The Police witness told the court that he received a report from the DPP dated December 30, 2021 called interim legal ad­vice which recommended that the staff should be prosecuted for alleged negligence. CSP Olusegun, who said he was serving with in the homi­cide section of the Lagos State Criminal Investigation and In­telligence Department (SCIID), Panti Section in 2021 made the disclosure while being cross-examined by Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) in the ongoing inquest into the controversial death of 12-year-old student of the Dowen College student, Sylvester Oromoni Jnr. Again, Ovrode Community Shuts Down Ughelli/Asaba Expressway For… Mr. Eno Is My Golden Boy, Wife Blows Hot The witness also told the senior lawyer that he received another legal advice dated Jan­uary 4. He said, “We sent one dated December 23, this was the last report we sent.” Falana further showed the witness the interim report dat­ed December 30, 2021 and while reading the last paragraph, the witness said, “There are sufficient facts to establish this offense against Mrs. Celina Uduak, Valentine Igboekweze, Hammed Ayomo Bariyu, Ade­sanya Olusegun and Mr. Ad­eyemi and Dowen College. The witness further af­firmed that he conducted a thorough investigation on the matter. He said he was aware that the police protested that they were not allowed to con­clude investigation on the matter. When the witness was showed a protest letter writ­ten to the Chief Judge of La­gos State by the Police, on the development of the investiga­tion, the witness identified the letter. A portion of the letter that was read by the witness in the court stated, “It came as a rude shock that the investigation was not allowed to be carried out.” POLL He also said the suspects were not brought back to the station for the conclusion of the investigation. Olusegun also said, “During investigation, one of the suspects informed me that the deceased was bullied. Another one also told me that he was taken to the third floor to be tortured.” When asked if any witness told him that the deceased was injured on the 14th of No­vember, he said he could not recollect. The witness also affirmed that the deceased sister told her that he was also bullied sometimes in October and that the boy who allegedly bullied him was not punished for the act. “She also confirmed to me that they bullied his brother because they wanted him to describe her private parts. Alleged Defamation: Nnamdi Kanu’s Lawyer Sues Activist,… We Suspect Exhaust Fume Killed Two Lovers In Awka – Police “I wouldn’t know the de­ceased was taken to the sick bay in October when he was bullied.” He also confirmed that a female parent of the school also reported a case of bul­ly against her son by some students at at Maroko Police Station.