As African countries including Nigeria await the launch of the Biennial Review report of the African Union Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Program, (CAADP), the third in the series, the Non-State Actors  have urged the federal and the state governments to use the agricultural sector to remove Nigeria from the global list as the poverty capital of the world. They said that the agricultural sector is the only sector that can adequately provide the needed jobs for our teeming population. The stakeholders made the call during a two day Pre-BR3 launch with the theme; ‘Strengthening Accountability and Utilisation Biennial Preview Results – Countdown to BR3 Launch’ in Abuja. How To Invest In Agro Input Business Venture Obaseki Inaugurates 13-Man Committee On Arable Land In Edo One of the stakeholders, Azubike Nwokoye, Food and Agriculture Programme Coordinator, Actionaid Nigeria who spoke on the ‘Role of Non State Actors (NSAs) in the BR process – Case study AAN and partners, said that the FMARD and State Ministries of Agriculture should create a yearly budget line for support for smallholder women. He said that the three tiers of government should commit 10 per cent of their annual budget to the agriculture sector to meet the 10 per cent Maputo/Malabo Declaration required to support at least six per cent growth rate for the sector as postulated in the CAADP framework. He added that the state governments should allocate more public investments in agriculture to address the strategic areas of investments that would increase the agricultural GDP to at least six per cent. The NSA also called on the federal and State governments to ensure timely and total releases of the agriculture budgets towards food security, unemployment reduction and poverty eradication. “For agriculture budgeting and other policymaking processes, a strategy for involving and mainstreaming the concerns of smallholder farmers should be developed. For example, leaders of women farmer organizations and other smallholder farmers, vulnerable groups such as farmers living with disabilities, and CSOs should be invited to every stage of the budget. POLL “States should develop their own Agricultural Investment Plans. This will enable the efforts at the states and local government levels to be recognized in the overall determination of the country’s commitment to the CAADP and enable accurate data for the Biennial Review (BR) Reporting. Also, Constance Okeke, International Project Manager – Int’l Project Manager Public Finance for Agriculture (PFA), ActionAid International, while giving an Overview of the Malabo Declaration Biennial Review (BR) Report and how it works, said that one of the aim of the meeting was to enable non state actors, civil society organisation, farmers groups and the media to share results and experiences with the view of achieving the African union Agricultural target for 2025. She said Nigeria is working towards achieving results and that the country has made huge progress from the first BR to the second BR. “We are also hoping that the third BR will be better. We want more investments in agriculture, better policies, participatory processes, joint stakeholders review of programmes and policies so that we can be on the same page and everybody can move at the same pace,” she said. Okeke also stated that the inaugural Biennial Review (BR) report on the Implementation of the 2014 Malabo Declaration on Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Transformation for Shared Prosperity and Improved Livelihoods including the Africa Agriculture Transformation Scorecard (AATS), was launched on January 29th, 2018 during the African Union’s 30th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government. Food Security: FCT-ARDS Empowers Farmers To Tackle Fall Army… X-Raying Critical Role Rice Value Chain Plays In Economic… According to her, the second BR report was presented on 10th February 2020 at the 33rd Ordinary Session of the Assembly of African Union in Addis Ababa.