***Reports FG To British Govt. Over Economic, Security Situation In Nigeria ***The World Will Be Watching The 2023 General Elections In Nigeria- British High Commissioner ABUJA – The National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu, has said the party is confident of winning the 2023 general elections. Osun APC: Can Aregbesola Give Oyetola The Ambode Treatment ? Delta DC-2023’s Debacle On Search For Okowa’s… Ayu, stated this, yesterday, when he received the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, at the PDP national secretariat, in Abuja. The PDP chairman noted that with the outcome of the area council elections, in the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT), it is obvious that Nigerians want the opposition party back in government at the center . Nevertheless, he said the PDP expects the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other state institutions to be unbiased during the 2023 polls. We expect all umpires institutions including the Independent National Electoral Commission to carry out their work without bias against us as major opposition party. And so far, the signs are there given what happened in the last one week, to the elections we held in FCT . According to him, “what we want to see from friends of Nigeria is to support and encourage everybody to play by the rules so that even if we lose, we accept that we’ll have lost. But we want everybody to play by the rules because in the past, we had had serious reservation about the performance of the umpire institutions. POLL “So the strong thing we want to see from our friends, is to make sure that necessary effort is made to support those institutions that are going to umpire the elections because we believe that we are the party that should rightly be ruling Nigeria. Why did we believe so? We have cause to believe that the last six years have been worse off and the country has been going in the wrong direction.” Reporting President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to the British, Ayu told the British High Commissioner, what is presently obtainable in the country in the areas of economic and security. He said: “Economics situation has deteriorated alots. There’s massive unemployment. Secondly, the security situation has worsened. And we believe that we can do better. And it’s not just a question of a blame game of thinking that as an opposition party we must go ahead to rulling government. “The evidence is there that when we were in power for 16 years. We did certain things right. we reduced Nigeria debt considerably, particularly the commercial debts.” On her part, The British High Commissioner, said the world will be watching the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, with keen interest, hoping that it goes well. Convention: APC Governors Did Not Zone Any Position – Sources 2023 Presidential Election: Ogbara Kafilat Organizes Prayer… Laing said “so the world will be watching this election, and hoping it goes well. So it matters, obviously, for the people of Nigeria, it matters for Africa, and it matters for the world. You are one of the largest democracies globally. “ She added: “Our aspiration is for 2023 to be a credible, credible election that the people of Nigeria have confidence in. “We will not be taking a stance beyond that. Obviously we’ll be following the interests, the manifestos and the policy and hoping for good policy that will enable Nigeria to move forward and take its rightful place in the global community. “One of the challenges in Nigeria has been low turnout, you know, what we can we do collectively to inspire the youth to believe in in their politics and in the future of their country. We look forward to see how much this election matters. “Nigeria has been on the democratic journey since 1999. And that, in itself is something to be very proud of. You are in a region, unfortunately, where the democracy is backsliding. “I know in Nigeria, your President has taken a very clear forward position on that, and in ECOWAS and so on.”