Mikel Arteta has guaranteed that former Arsenal star Jack Wilshere will one day return to the club as a coach. Wilshere has just signed for Danish side AGF Aarhus after spending eight months without a club. The former England midfielder, whose career has been plagued by injuries, was training with Arsenal while he decided his next move. Diego Simeone Insists Man Utd Have “Two Of Best… Arteta Glad To See Jimenez Back After Skull Fracture And Arteta revealed that the 30-year-old considered hanging up his boots to become a coach after helping out with the club’s Under 18 team. Arsenal boss Arteta, who played for the club alongside Wilshere before going into management himself, said: “First of all thanks for all the time he has been with us. “It’s been an absolute pleasure to have him back, to enjoy watching him play again and having him around, the inspiration he is for all the young people. “And hopefully we have helped him a bit because he had some doubts whether to start coaching or to continue playing. “I think this group of players have given him that necessity to feel again on a daily basis how magnificent it is to feel like a football player. POLL “And I think he wants to experience that again and we wish him the best of luck. “Will he return to Arsenal in coaching capacity? 100 per cent. Everybody at the club will be willing to open the doors for him and try to find a role for him that can work for everybody. “I think that will happen naturally in the future.” Wilshere made 197 appearances for Arsenal and won 34 caps for England, but managed only 36 games during spells at West Ham and Bournemouth after leaving the club in 2018. Earlier this month Wilshere said: “I’ve been doing as much coaching as possible. “I feel even in a short amount of time I’ve improved so much as a coach. I’ve really enjoyed it.” Fred Defends Himself After Scholes, Keane Criticism Conte Reveals Transfer Battles With Paratici Over Lukaku,… He ended up signing a short-term deal with AGF until the summer with an option to extend, but has one eye on a permanent move into coaching. And Arteta was gushing in his praise for his former team-mate’s influence behind the scenes at Arsenal this season. He said: “Jack has come a long way since we were playing together but I don’t think he will ever lose that spontaneity that he has, that character, the funny moments he produced. “That is part of Jack but obviously the years have gone by he has matured a lot.”