LAGOS – The National Associa­tion of Government Ap­proved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), has said that it has withdrawn its members who were already part of the ongoing protest at Lagos seaports against the contro­versial Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) policy. Alhaji Ibrahim Tanko, Coordinator, NAGAFF 100% Compliance team, who an­nounced this in Lagos, said the association decided to withdraw as information reaching them revealed that hoodlums and crimi­nals who are neither freigh­forwarders nor Customs Agents have concluded plans to infiltrate the protest and commit crime. The NAGAFF chieftain maintained that unscrupu­lous persons from Mushin and Ajegunle axis of the state have perfected plots to join the protest and unleash mayhem on innocent citi­zens. Billionaire Kidnapper Evans, Two Others Bag Life Imprisonment We Have Not Received Any Suit On Igboho’s Trial –ECOWAS Court He also disclosed that a petition had already been dispatched to the Honour­able Minister, Federal Min­istry of Finance, Mrs Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, against the operators Customs’ ser­vice providers; Webb Fon­taine, for alleged inefficiency leading to loss of revenue by freight forwarders and the government. Recalled that clearing agents have since Monday, February 21, 2022, embarked on protests at the Lagos ports, specifically the Tin- Can Island Port and Ports and Terminals Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML), Commands of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), over the Vehicle Identifica­tion Number (VIN) e-Valu­ation policy introduced by the Federal Government, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for imported vehicles. Alhaji Tanko, who howev­er noted that the e- valuation implemented by the NCS has come to stay said that the VIN was introduced as a result of freight forwarders’ request for the need to cen­tralise Customs valuation process. He, however, stated that freight forwarders needed to know how the NCS came about the exorbitant value placed on vehicles as duty charges. He said: “They don’t even know what is freight for­warding. We are not part and parcel of the ongoing protest in Tincan. We have asked our men to withdraw since Tuesday. We agreed that e-valuation has come to stay, but we want to know the value and how you come about that value you are giv­ing to us,” Tanko asserted.