ABUJA – Dr Emma Ezenwaji, the Director of Centre for Climate Change, Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, has decried the lack of action at the local government and State level towards mitigating the dire impact of climate change. He observed that this nonchalance is more pronounced in the South-East geopolitical zone where he said governments are yet to place any emphasis on Climate Change remediation efforts and related matters. Addressing stakeholders at the maiden South-East Climate Change Summit held last week at the Climate Change Centre if the University, the climate change expert noted that states and LGAs have not been able to march the federal government effort at mitigating the impact of climate change. Zamfara Dep. Gov. Impeached, Gov. Replaces Him With Senator BREAKING: Sacked ASUU-LASU Leaders Reinstated The federal government had last passed the Climate Change Act to help tackle the growing challenge in the environment due largely to human activities. Dr Ezenwaji further noted that in some of the Ministries, the issue of climate change is handled to fulfil all righteousness as can be seen from the Climate Change obscure desks in these Ministries being manned by sometimes frustrated officers. “The States usually do not have any budget provision for climate change and when there is such a provision rarely are releases made to the Ministries for the desks. In our local areas, the evil menace of climate change is becoming much felt by both the rural farmers and urban dwellers. “This is why we have invited champions from various communities to share their experiences with us. I do hope that little interaction that our time can permit us will be used as a starting point to begin a climate action in the rural areas in this region,” he stressed. According to him, the Centre was established by the present Vice Chancellor of the university in 2019 with the central mandate of building the desired capacity for local people to engage in climate change mitigation and adaptation. POLL “The first step towards achieving this mandate is our collaboration with the Department of Geography and Meteorology to propose the mounting of PGD and M.Sc programmes in Climate Change. This proposal is receiving the desired attention from our college of Post Graduate studies with the assurance that it will soon be transmitted to the University Senate for approval for the programme to commence within the next academic session 2022/2023 In his welcome address Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Charles Esimone, pointed out that climate change is real and seen in rising incidences of wildfires, draught, flooding, soil erosion etc. The theme of the summit: Limiting Climate Change Through Local Action, he said is apt since local action He said that “Humanity today iives In the insidious asphyxiating grip of climate change and its consequences, “Climate change – the long term shifts In temperature, rising temperatures, and weather patterns – Is caused by the emission of greenhouse gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone, among others, arising from human activities. the burning of fossil fuels, primarily coal, oll and gas, landffs and massive deforestation”. NHIS Issues ID Cards To NBA Beneficiaries Makinde, Wife, OYSHA Speaker, Oladeji Bag Award As VAPP Law… The event witnessed the presentation of leadership and other awards to dignitaries including Hon Sam Onuigbo, sponsor of the Climate Change bill which has since been signed into law by President Buhari. Also recognized were Sent. Uche.Ekwunife, Profs Peter Nnabude and Christian Ifeanyi Enete for their deep cutting age research outputs in climate change. There is also Edic Chemical and Industrial Ltd for their effort in clean energy through the manufacture of solar energy components and Mr Ralph Azolo, the CEO of Radopin Supermarkets for his drive for clean energy in his shops.