AKINWUNMI KING Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari; the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; ex-Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, and a host of other dignitaries, on Saturday, February 5, 2022, were in Daura to witness the turbanning of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amechi as the “Dan Amana Daura”. The title is translated to mean “The Trusted Son of Daura”. The highly influential Katsina Emirate broke its tradition to enlist Amaechi, a devout Catholic into its ranks with the turbaning ceremony given the massive developments he has brought to the town through several landmark projects. APC Inaugurates Party Officials In Benue Plateau APC Suffers Mass Defection Of Members To PDP Expectedly, given several contemporary factors, it is not out of place for some Nigerians to read political motives in the turbaning of Amaechi at this time, given that it coincides with the emergence of a strong clamour for him to contest for the Presidency come 2023. Coming from the hometown of President Buhari, political pundits believe that the title is meant to send some coded messages to the polity. According to a public affairs analyst, Eddy Odivwri, “Here is a minister who has largely faced his business of revamping the transport ministry with scores of iconic achievements on various aspects of the ministry, ranging from the revolution in the rail transport across the country, the development of the marine sector, including the soon-to-come breakthrough in the Deep Blue Sea project, etc.; who has markedly stayed away from the ruckus noise of the 2023 presidential race, being invited to be honoured by the kinsmen of Mr President in a ceremony that promises to be as loud and colourful like a Christmas orchestra. “It is remarkable that all these are coming at a time when politics is literally flaking in the air. It is quite telling that the echoes of this turbanning will literally usher in that major political event in the party.” Typically, Amaechi has enjoyed a special relationship with President Muhamadu Buhari, firstly as the Director General of the latter’s successful presidential campaigns for both the first and second terms. Hence, even from a perspective of payback, Buhari owes him some form of gratitude. Then, as a serving minister, Amaechi has endowed Buhari’s home state and home town (Katsina and Daura respectively), with unprecedented infrastructure projects, whereby the city and the state have been reinvented. POLL Some analysts believe that the turbaning ceremony coming at this time not only qualifies as the icing on Amaechi’s cake of acclaim and commendations, but sends a strong signal that he should be seen henceforth as a strong contender for the Presidency of the country. As things stand, the country, especially the political class have to contend with the Amaechi factor, in the race for the Presidency, come 2023. According to the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, the traditional title of ‘Dan Amanar Daura’ conferred on the Amaechi by the Daura Emirate in Katsina State has brightened the chance of Igbo nation for the 2023 presidential race. The organisation in a statement by its Secretary-General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, on Sunday, described Amaechi as the beloved son of Igbo nation who has strengthened the cordial relationship between the North and Eastern Nigeria by accepting the title. It stated further that Amaechi’s pan Nigerian postures as minister for transportation had strengthened the cordial relationship between the North and Eastern Nigeria and the opportunity for the emergence of a New Nigeria anchored on justice and equity. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… It added that Amaechi’s new title will boost the chance of having an Igbo person as Nigeria’s president in 2023. This, the group said, is because the quest for 2023 Igbo Presidency accommodates all prominent sons and daughters from all Igbo speaking areas including Delta and Rivers states. It therefore noted that Amaechi as “a bridge linking South-South, South-East and the North, he is more of an asset to Ndigbo, as all eyes of the Igbo is on 2023, everyone is important to the realisation of 2023 Igbo Presidency, and there will be no segregation in the 2023 Igbo Project.” Recently, the Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance endorsed the Minister to succeed the President, in 2023. According to the group, at 56, Amaechi does not have the burden of old age-related health challenges associated with some aspirants. Addressing journalists in Abuja last Monday, the National Coordinator of the group, Bilal Dakiyak, said Amaechi is the best man to sustain President Buhari’s momentum of diversification and economic reform. He, however, called on Amaechi to waste no time by formally declaring his intention to contest for the top job in the country. He said, “The process for the selection and eventual election of this successor in the 2023 General Elections is already on. “For the purpose of continuity, the Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance has a preference that the All Progressive Congress continues its run in office. “That way Nigeria will not suffer losses that arise because of the government of different political parties deciding not to press ahead with the policies and projects inaugurated by the outgoing government. It is on record that Nigeria has lost much to the lack of continuity in government. “We have consequently critically assessed the eminent Nigerians that have indicated their interest to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and have zeroed in on the Honourable Minister of Transport, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi. “Mr. Rotimi Ameachi straddles the age divide as he is between those that are considered too old for the job or too young and inexplicably inexperienced. At 56 years, he is easily the connection between the youth and the older generation. As a bonus, while we concede that it is God that gives good health, Ameachi does not have the burden of old age-related health challenges that Nigerians are concerned about in some candidates. “Amaechi is a friend of the north in addition to having the right connection with the South- West, South-East and his south-south geo-political region. He is a fair-minded person and will be kind to all Nigerians, especially when he has repeatedly proven that has no religious discriminations.” The Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruq, while justifying the title bestowed on the Transportation Minister, during the ceremony held at the royal palace in Daura, said, “Daura Emirate does not confer titles on people because of money. The Emirate considers the services rendered to humanity by whoever he wants to honour. “The Kano-Daura-Katsina rail line which will terminate at Maradi and the Federal University of Transportation, Daura, would bring us benefits in the education of our youths, create employment for our teeming youths and socio-economic development of our community and that of Nigeria. It is because of all these that we are honoring him with the title.” On his part, President Buhari described the conferment of the title on Amaechi as a clear commitment to the harmonious relationship between the nation’s diverse cultures. The President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, quoted the President as commending Amaechi “for working with enormous energy to make the change we promised Nigerians a reality,” saying “the change we are witnessing in the transport sector is an extraordinary legacy.” Also, a presidential delegation made up of the Ministers of Water Resources, Engr. Sulaiman Adamu; Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika and few others attended the event. Amaechi is one of the most loyal and trusted ministers of President Buhari. He reportedly played crucial roles in Buhari’s emergence as APC presidential candidate in 2015 in terms of mobilisation support and funds. He was the Director General of President Muhammadu Buhari’s presidential campaign in 2015 and 2019. Although he is yet to declare his intention, Amaechi is considered to have a very good chance of picking the APC presidential ticket and going ahead to win the 2023 poll, if he gets the backing of the President. Already, foot soldiers are on the prowl working on the Amaechi 2023 Project. In their estimation, Amaechi’s presidency will address many issues surrounding agitation for the presidency. He is a Christian, an Igbo, and hails from Rivers State in Southern Nigeria. In essence, his supporters said with Amaechi as president, the question of power-shift to the South, a president of Igbo extraction, and a Christian succeeding a Muslim president would be answered. The Dan Amana Daura title is expected to further deepen Amaechi’s affiliation to the North and boost his marketability for the presidency as a detribalised Nigerian. If recent reports that the ruling APC is tilting towards giving its presidential ticket to the South- South is true, then Amaechi may have had his job clearly cut out for him with the title as it has further solidified his support base in the northern part of the country.