The Niger State Police Command has confirmed the attack on Galadima Kogo in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger state which claimed  10 lives including four personnel of the  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp’s ( NSCDC)  and six civilians. The NSCDC personnel who were said to be on a rescue mission to a nearby village unknowingly ran into the explosives devices with their patrol vehicle. Niger state  Commissioner of Police, Mr . Monday Bala  Kuryas, told journalists on the phone that IEODs were the handiwork of terrorist groups operating in the area. Terrorists Kill Police Officer In Katsina Four Killed As Terrorists Raze Community In Southern Kaduna Kuryas painted a pathetic picture of the incident that claimed the ten lives  in the early hours yesterday (Monday) “The gunmen invaded the community in the early hours of Monday in several motorcycles, first burnt down eight houses as well as the three buildings housing the Joint Security Task Force that is under renovation after last month attack in the area”. Already, a combined detachment of police tactical squad and the military have been deployed to the troubled area and have commenced manhunt for the armed men with a view to tracking them down. “We are appealing to residents to assist security personnel deployed to the area with reliable information that could aid in apprehending the miscreants”. While assuring citizens that efforts are being made to end the siege by the armed men, Kuryas said, “We are all out to deal with any person or group of people undermining the peaceful atmosphere our area”. POLL Also speaking on the security situation in the area, Chairman of  Shiroro local government area, Mallam Suleiman Chukuba said the attack was launched by members of Boko-Haram, considering the sophistication of the weapons they were seen carrying, including the explosive. “These are the handiwork of Boko-Haram not armed bandits because they were heavily equipped with sophisticated weapons including explosive devices. This morning Civil Defense vehicle ran into one of the explosive devices, their vehicle destroyed and many of them died”, The chairman explained that the NSDC personnel were on their way to one of the communities in Shiroro local government to ascertain the level of destruction by the gunmen before they ran into the explosive devices. “Only two out of the number of NSCDC in the vehicle survived the explosion and are in critical condition, receiving treatment at a government facility in Minna, the state capital. The chairman lamenting sustained attacks by the combined forces of; ISWAP, Boko-Haram and  Armed bandit/Fulani militia said, “As I speak to you now, several buildings were affected, everything was set ablaze and the entire community, for now, is deserted. Ortom To Buhari: Be Bold, Declare Miyetti Allah, Kautal Hore,… BREAKING: Boko Haram Terrorists Set Houses Ablaze, Kill Scores… According to the Council chairman, “Right now we can not ascertain the total number of people that have been killed, the situation is quite serious and the entire area has been deserted”.