Ago-Iwoye Great Thinkers Trust Foundation (AIGTTF) was launched recently with the mandate to raise a billion naira for developmental projects in Ago- Iwoye, Ogun State. This was revealed in a recent statement made by Major General Sansadeen Adebanjo Awosanya( rtd), Chairman of the Board of Trustees, at the WosAm arena of the town, stating that the mandate of the group was to execute community-based projects and to promote functional developmental projects in the town. According to Awosanya, “The foundation is an offshoot of a WhatsApp platform, ‘the Ago-Iwoye City Development Great Thinkers’, created in August 2016. It had as members, a mix of intellectuals, technocrats, royalty, business moguls, with the sole aim of promoting Ago-Iwoye and every one of her distinguished sons and daughters based in Nigeria and in the diaspora. NGO Donates Drugs, Items Worth N500,000 To Psychiatric Patients… Accreditation Of Bayelsa Varisty Programmes Gulps N1bn “Ago-Iwoye, located in Ijebu North Local Government of Ogun State is home to several notable personalities who have distinguished themselves and have attained the pinnacle of their careers, birthed the foundation to improve key sectors in the community, namely; healthcare, poverty alleviation and youth empowerment. Education, agriculture, character molding among others.” Awosanya stated. Members of the various committees were unveiled at the event, including, Dr. Tokunbo Osineye who headed the Health Committee, Otunba Olusola Ogundipe – Agriculture Committee and Omoba Dr. Seye Awojobi – Education/Skill acquisition and Youth empowerment committee. They were charged to drum support for its aims and objectives and make it more inclusive to get the required intellectual and financial support. Also speaking at the event was the Ebumawe of Ago-Iwoye, Oba Abdulrazak Adesina Adenugba, who expressed delight at the support given to the vision which has the potential of accelerating Ago-Iwoye’s economic activities. He applauded the brilliance of the promoters of the foundation and called for support from all the sons and daughters of the town. He enjoined the community to embrace unity and cooperation and denounced activities capable of causing rifts and disunity in the community. Other speakers at the event include Chief Femi Bakre, the Managing Director of Parallex Bank and Omoba Engr. Femi Olukoya, Chairman Loofca International, who àre members of the BOT of the foundation. POLL Chief Bakre maintained that the foundation is a sum total of intellectual and financial investments which must be given the chance to bloom to serve the interests of the community. In addition, Engr. Olukoya pledged the support of the foundation to work with other home-grown initiatives to achieve a lasting synergy that will ensure the growth of the community. Other dignitaries included Mogaji Adeyinka Sipe, Yemi Sonaike, a retired Director of State Security Service, Aare Safiriyu Kazeem Adebanjo, CEO of SAF Petroleum, Olori Modupe Sotobi, wife of the Anyagburen of Ikorodu, among others.