…Holds Public Lecture LAGOS – The youth of Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under the auspices of the Lagos Youth Democratic League has resolved to frustrate all the enemies within the party in their quest to take over power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. The youth at a public lecture on Friday, with the theme ‘Who is Afraid of Atona Odua stated that there is no more division in the party even as they vowed to deal with any member who would stand on their way to take over power in 2023. Chief Bode George, the former deputy national chairman of PDP, charged the youths to be committed to the task of taking over Lagos State in 2023 from the APC so that their commonwealth will be used for their benefit but not cornered by a few individuals who have continued to amass the state’s wealth for themselves and cronies. The public lecture, titled “Leadership and the Enemies Within” was delivered by Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosunmu, veteran journalist and the Special Adviser to Bode George, he noted that leadership is not a purchasable commodity that can be bought in the marketplace, but earned. He stressed that progressive leadership doesn’t reside in temporary advantages, nor resolve itself in narrow prejudicial benefits; rather it is predicated absolutely on the larger interest of the people. According to him, the Lagos State PDP Elders are now reconciled, working in lockstep unity. Buratai Boasts Of Modernised Nigerian Army Tricycle Riders Seek Separation From NURTW, Independent Union “They have re-asserting the bond, friendship and the amity of the good old days. They are fully united, strengthened in will and wisdom to confront the ruling party.  There is no more division. Governor Seyi Makinde worked graciously for the peace.   “We are also grateful to Chief Bode George, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu, Chief  Mrs Aduke Maina, Senator Kofo Bucknor Akerele, Chief Mrs Onikepo Oshodi, Dr Remi Akitoye and many other leaders who contributed to this new dawn of peace. We thank God for this important breakthrough in Lagos State PDP,” he stated. Shodipe-Dosunmu who is also the Oloriekun of Olowogbowo said that the concern about leadership is borne out of the petty virulence of a reckless minority who are unwilling to abide by the peaceful process but are determined to bring the party back to the destructive days.  “In recent times there has been a spate of vicious, cruel and vindictive vendetta waged against Chief Olabode George and Governor Makinde by some ill-masked, untidily veiled mercenaries fulfilling the purpose of the other side.  “Something is terribly wrong when a few chest-beating pseudo democrats within the fold of Lagos PDP are now the hired hands of the ruling party,” he said. Shodipe-Dosunmu added, “The current campaign of enmity against the Atona Odua and Governor Makinde by well-known perennial time-servers is all about envy and the complex of the diminished man.  It is about a virulent, aimless malignity encouraged by a distorted, scarred, verminous identity and more importantly, the campaign of blackmail is also about money.” According to him the failed conspirators against Bode George and Governor Makinde are often men of straw, inconsequential low -life who hardly contribute anything meaningful to the enhancement and growth of the party, stressing that Bode George has demonstrated a sterling, progressive and democratic leadership in steering the rudder of the party since 1998.  “He occupies the highest totem in Lagos State, in the Southwest and earns a national reckoning through hard work, selflessness, devotion to duty and the honourable path. “He remains an outstanding emblem of consistency and steadfastness in his contributions to the growth of the party and finances the party substantially, investing millions of his personal funds to ensure that the party is solvent and positioned on moral high ground as we grapple with the rot invested Tinubu’s fiefdom,” he said. Prominent PDP chieftains, youths and women were at the event including Chief Taiwo Kuye and Honourable Wale Gomez who charged the youths not to rest on their oars until PDP wins Lagos State in 2023.