…As Thousands Storm Ibadan For APC Youth Festival IBADAN – Thousands of youths across six states of South-West geo-political zone and Kwara state have on Saturday converged in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital to deliberate on 2023 general elections as it affects them in holding various political offices. The event that was held at the main bowl of the Liberty Stadium tagged: All Progressive Congress (APC) Youths Festival, youths from Oyo, Ondo, Osun, Ogun, Lagos, Ekiti, and Kwara states came en masse to discuss how to hold their present and future destiny in their hands. COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose Rediscovered Oduduwa Kingdom: Oba Adepoju To Celebrate First… Speaking at the event, a member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency of Oyo state, Honourable Shina Peller charged youths to ensure full participation in the forthcoming 2023 general election. According to the Federal lawmaker, youths should see the 2023 general election as their own time to effect positive change that would transform the country into “a land of our dream”. He further encouraged youths to get their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC), stressing that with their PVCs they are better placed at a vantage position to effect the needed change to rebuild the nation and set the country on the path of progress. In attendance are the APC Deputy National Youth Leader, Afeez Bolaji Repete, son of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, Kabiru Aregbesola, son of the late former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, Idris Ajibola Ajimobi,  daughter of the late business mogul and politician, Chief MKO Abiola, Derinsola Abiola, Barrister Ismael Ahmed, Babajide Akeredolu and Titilope Gbadamosi. Also present are Nollywood actors, actresses, and popular musicians including Okunnu, Jigan, Kunle Afod, Saheed Osupa, Portable popularly known as Zazu Zeh and Kamilu Kompo amongst others. POLL Peller also used the occasion to clarify the controversial Bill seeking to absorb the National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) into the Nigerian Police Force. He maintained that the purpose of the proposed Bill was not to cause sorrow or disaffection but to avoid duplication of functions and foster growth and development. Peller while urging the youths to embrace the ongoing call for full participation in politics, described as unfortunate the misconception of some people over the proposed Bill. It would be recalled that shortly after the proposed Bill was announced, the leadership of the NSCDC ordered the withdrawal of its officers attached to Hon. Shina Peller. However, the security agency later rescinded its decision, claiming ignorance. 2023 Presidency: 19 Northern Groups Endorse David Umahi’s… All Eyes On Salah, Mane As Egypt, Senegal Vie For AFCON Crown He added that the bill is not about scrapping NSCDC, but merging the agency with the Nigeria Police Force to achieve better results in policing. “The bill does not in any way seek to render people jobless rather the bill proposes the transfer of assets and personnel of the NSCDC to the Nigeria Police. In other words, assets and personnel will be absorbed by the Police; so there won’t be loss of jobs,” he stated. Also speaking at the event, the daughter of late Chief MKO Abiola,  Derinsola, charged the youths to come out en masse to participate in the forthcoming general election, to ensure that problems facing the country are cured. She said, “Now is Youth o’clock, this is your time to take part in decision making. Go out and make sure you collect your PVCs. “It is only through this, you can have a voice in the affairs of the country. It is through this you can determine who is your President, Governor, and all other elected officials. This is your party, APC, a party of the progressives. Please, this is your chance now!”