LAGOS – All is now set for this year’s Access Bank Lagos City Marathon tomorrow, Saturday, February 12, 2022, in Lagos. The 42km race is expected to be flagged off by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in front of the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos by 6.30 am. Group Head, Corporate Communications and External Affairs, Access Bank Plc, Amaechi Okobi said the company will continue to support the race as it embodies the values of Access Bank and Lagos State. Kenya And Ethiopia Win Big At 2021 Access Bank Lagos City… “Values build around resilience, continuity and pushing the boundaries of the perceived impossible. “For seven editions, the race hasn’t stopped, and won’t stop! Despite the challenges posed by the global pandemic, we have evolved, demonstrated resilience, and shown our capacity to stage a competition that measures up to global standards. “You can rest assured, this year’s race will be even better and more competitive than previous editions. “Of course, we expect the marathon’s records across the male and female races to be challenged and even broken,” said Okobi. He added: “The Access Bank Lagos City Marathon has provided a platform for thousands of young athletes who are eager to dominate the world using their incredible talent and we are proud of our local and international participating athletes who have gone on to excel beyond the shores of the continent”. Okobi assured that Access Bank will continue to ensure that the marathon gets more interesting, attracting the biggest and best talents in the world. POLL “Together with our partners, we will continue to target world-class outings until the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) awards the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon the gold label rating. “As Africa’s gateway to the world, the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon is our responsibility to sportsmen and women who need a globally-recognised platform to showcase themselves; to small and large businesses who can expand their market through this opportunity; to our stakeholders whom we have promised to deliver unmatched value; and to the general public, within and outside Nigeria, who have joined us,” said Okobi.