***Ask PDP To Prevail On Obaseki, Shaibu ABUJA – The 14 Edo state lawmakers elect that were excluded from inauguration by the Governor Godwin Obaseki administration have petitioned the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Iyorcha Ayu. The lawmakers, in their petition have asked Ayu to remedy the situation. Igbos Haven’t Committed Any Crime To Be Denied Presidency In… Political Parties Grooming Thugs Instead Of Leaders – Sen… In the petition dated 4th of February, 2022, signed by Rt. Hon. Victor Sabor Edoror, on behalf of the 14 APC members titled, “Re unlawful exclusion of 14 elected APC members of Edo state house of Assembly from parliamentary duty,” the lawmakers asked Ayu to use his good office to prevail on Godwin Obaseki, his Deputy, Philip Shaibu and their agents to immediately cause the integration of all members of the Edo State House of Assembly so as to protect the Nigerian Democracy which they said they believe PDP also stands for. The petition reads: “Chairman sir, it will be our honour to meet with you. If you so desire, to explain our plight in better detail. While looking forward to hearing from Your Excellency, kindly accept assurances of our highest consideration. “Representations were severally also made to the National Assembly members, recommended that a proper inauguration be done, but were ignored by the Governor Obaseki. “Our resort to Legal redress has also not yielded fruit, as Edo State High Court failed to hear the case till date for the third year running due to the influence of the government (Governor Godwin Obasek and Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu) through the solicitor general now Attorney General, Mr Wole lyamu. Infact, the eighth judge is presently handling the matter without hearing yet. “The Attorney general of the federation and minister of justice was invited to use a legal opinion on the matter after which he wrote to the Inspector General of Police and relevant authority of the state, interpreting provisions of the Constitution and recommending that the inauguration of elected members of the house be conducted. POLL “The Edo Governor and his Deputy similarly did not comply with this advisory of the highest national legal authority, to integrate Edo House of Assembly members, as the law requires.”