***Pledges To Rebrand Party In Line With Current Realities MINNA – Thirty six years old aspirant for the National Chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), from Niger state, Mohammed Saidu Etsu has formally declared his intents to contest the party’s number one seat, insisting that he is the most suitable for the plum job. Mohammed Saidu Etsu, an Aide to Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello of Niger state is challenging Senator Sani Musa (Sani 313), also from Niger state had declared his intents to contest the chairmanship seat and has also received the Governor’s endorsement. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… But Saidu after formallay joining the race yesterday in Minna, the state capital promised to first rebrand the APC to instill party supremacy above individual members and as well build strong internal democracy with a reward system for distinguished party members. Saidu Etsu made the declaration at the state APC secretariat where he solicited for the support and blessings of members as he presents himself for the national office, accompanied by over a hundred youths endorsing his candidature. The aspirant told the state party chairman, Hon. Haliru Zakari Jikantoro with groups of youths chanting the slogan, ‘APC Re-set Agenda’ and a banner with the same inscription that he was on a mission to move the party from current stagnation to enviable heights. Nigeria is currently in dire need of genuine change for the party and it is only a young vibrant, visionary, experienced and non sentimental candidate like him can build an APC of Nigerians dream. Saidu who commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing into law the ‘not-too- young-to-run’ bill indicating the confidence he has on Nigerian youths however solicited for the support and blessings of the party ahead of the national convention. POLL Niger state APC chairman, Haliru Zakari Jikantoro in his response encouraged the national chairmanship aspirant to also intimate the state party leader and Governor of the state, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello about his aspirations. While assuring hundred percent support and loyalty as he awaits the Governor’s direction, Jikantoro told his guest that youths have proved their worth holding strategic positions and has been the ones determining election results due to their population and therefore encouraged him to remain focused as he joins the national chairmanship race.