Following the release of the sex tape of songwriter and singer, Ikuforiji Olaitan Abdulrahman, popularly known as Oxlade on Twitter, Nigerians have taken to the comment section to express their opinions. Earlier today, footage of Oxlade having sex with a girl, after which he openly displayed and recorded his nude using his phone was leaked via Snapchat. Though Oxlade and his team are yet to make an official statement, Nigerians have taken to Twitter to react with many saying that Oxlade should be dragged the same way Tiwa Savage was dragged. IBEDC Faults Oyo Government On Closure Of Offices Eguavoen, Amuneke Should Guard Against Clash Of Interest,… @davidword1 tweeted, ’’It’s a man’s world. Oxlade is being praised for something similar that Tiwa savage did and got a backlash for. If a female celeb makes this kinda mistake tomorrow, the whole of Nigeria will shame her. @Ojonya3, ‘’Where is the energy y’all used to drag Tiwa savage that time? Abi because Oxlade na man @khanofkanis11: “Apparently, there will never be much uproar when men’s sex tapes get exposed like there is when women’s happen. Tiwa’s case nearly shit the internet down with takes. Nobody cares about Cross’s nudes and everyone laughs about Oxlade’s and how good he is. Hypocrisy.” @jayythedope: “Many of you are trying to paint Oxlade’s sex tape like he committed a crime, smh. Everybody is a virgin on Twitter. It’s high time we all stopped acting like kids whenever things like this happen. When sex tapes get leaked, blame the leaker, that’s the criminal, period!!” @jedipand: “Nigerians are hypocrites, they bashed Tiwa Savage when her sex tape was released, but are not applauding Oxlade because he is a man. The same thing should happen to him too.’’ POLL @deoors: “People that bashed Tiwa’s video are applauding that of Oxlade. Different strokes for different folds.” @Tiwalang: “I think Oxlade is a good artist, but he is better at something else. Your versatility is admirable.” @sammyconnect2: “Oxlade has blocked the comment section on IG. Bros, we are not trolling; we want to hail you.”