AKURE – In its drive to ensure the se­curity of lives and prosperity, Governor Oluwarotimi Ak­eredolu-led administration in Ondo State has procured a fleet of vehicles from CIG Motors Nigeria, distributors of GAC Motors in the country, to boost the security apparatus of the state. The vehicles, which include GAC pickups, DFM buses and light trucks, were distributed to all the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. Taking delivery of the vehi­cles from CIG Motors Nigeria during, the official handover ceremony at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital, Governor Ak­eredolu said the deal with the automobile distributors includ­ed after-sale services. One Killed, Several Injured As Park Managers, ‘Federal… Police  Arrests TOOAN Leader, 4 Others, Recover Weapons He, therefore, told CIG Mo­tors to earnestly set up an af­ter-sale services workshop in the state, as the government is poised to purchase more vehicles from their stable, promising to provide land for the construction of the service workshop. Speaking on behalf of Chief Diana Chen, chairman of CIG Motors, the General Manager, Commercial and Group Head of Communications, Mr. Ju­bril Arogundade appreciated the governor, saying that “the importance of today’s mission being the handover of these security pickups is one that is highly regarded in our compa­ny’s vision to become the auto­mobile company of choice for organisations and individuals who are interested in dealing with authenticity. “As part of our drive to deliver in all capacity, we will be setting up an after-sale ser­vices centre in Ondo State. CIG Motors is truly invested in the future of mobility and innova­tion that aids development in Nigeria, and we have contin­ued to strengthen these values through strategic partnerships and collaborations such as this one while delivering excellent value which is our primary goal. “We are grateful to the Ondo State Government for their trust in our brand, for our prod­uct and our capacity to deliver,” he emphasised. Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa appreciated the Governor for the initiative to empower the 18 local govern­ments in the state with the state-of-the-art fleet of pickups for security operations. POLL The deal with the state gov­ernment marked a new mile­stone for the company, which has over time since coming into the Nigerian automobile market, proved itself to be a trustworthy and quality brand at the best rate.