ALL EYES will be on Mo Salah and Sadio Mane when the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) final gets under way on February 6. The Liverpool team-mates go head-to-head as Egypt and Senegal respectively look to win Africa’s foremost football competition. It has been a lively tournament full of goals, cards, drama and upsets and it all comes to a head this Sunday when Egypt takes on Senegal in the final of the 2022 African Cup of Nations. Many predicted that Senegal would reach the final and even go on to win the whole tournament as they boast one of the strongest squads at AFCON. They will certainly be favourites; however, they are up against an Egypt side who have knocked out some top sides along the way and will be full of confidence. Wife Reportedly Stabs Husband’s Nephew Over Broken Mirror South Korea Surpasses 1M COVID-19 Cases With Record Daily High However, historically, it is Egypt who should be full of confidence as the most winningest team in AFCON history, looking to claim their 8th title. Meanwhile, Senegal are looking for their first AFCON title, having lost in two previous final appearances, including most recently in 2019. It is a match full of top European talent with the likes of Edouard Mendy, Kalidou Koulibaly and Idrissa Gueye all on display; but the focus and narrative will be on Liverpool’s two-star wingers, Sadio Mane and Mohammed Salah battling it out. The love and respect will most certainly be on display between the two men before and after the match; however, that will go out the window for ninety minutes as the two men will put club loyalty aside and do everything in their power to make their countries proud. Both teams have faced much different routes to this year’s final. POLL Despite a slow start with two goalless draws and a narrow 1-0 victory over Zimbabwe, Senegal topped their group and really came to life in the knock-out stages. They found their shooting boots in the Round of 16 beating Cape Verde 2-0 and then following this up with a 3-1 victory over Equatorial Guinea in the quarter-finals. They then took on an inspired Burkina Faso side in the semi-final, scoring three second-half goals to win the match 3-1 and advance to the final. Senegal head into Sunday’s final as the last undefeated side left in the tournament. Egypt on the other hand have had a much trickier route to this year’s final. They advanced to the knock-out stages in second place after losing 1-0 to Nigeria in their final group stage game. They then faced an extremely tough three knock-out matches. A 0-0 draw with Ivory Coast in the Round of 16 meant penalties and they then had to come from behind to knock out Morocco 2-1. UN Chief Says Africa ‘Source Of Hope’ For The World KNSG To Review Retirement Age Of Teachers In the semi-finals they were up against hosts Cameroon and after another goalless draw they once again held their nerve to win the match on penalties and make it to this year’s final. After coming through three tough matches against some of the tournament’s favourites, Egypt will have no fear going into the final and believe that they can once again cause an upset in the final. Many will be focussing on the battle between Salah and Mane; both their countries top scorers at this year’s tournament, but this Sunday’s final is about so much more. It is the most winningest team against a team looking for their maiden title, a Senegalese coach who has established Senegal as the highest-ranked side in Africa and is looking to finally end the wait. It is Egypt against Senegal, and it is a mouth-watering final.