Damaturu – Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum has ordered the construction of new barracks for the police and immigration on his third day of ongoing visit to Gamboru border town of Ngala Local Government Area on Tuesday. Both are federal institutions and insurgents had razed down the barracks that existed in the area. Zulum, who travelled alongside Senator Kashim Shettima, also directed the construction of a shopping complex to enhance trade, and the reconstruction of some buildings at the Nigerian Arabic Village in Ngala town, owned by the Federal Government. 2023: Group Canvasses Tinubu As Consensus Candidates Of All… Davido Disburses N250m To 292 Orphanage Homes Zulum, Shettima and other stakeholders traveled to Gamboru on Sunday and undertook major humanitarian activities on Sunday and Monday, and on Tuesday, with the Governor inspecting government buildings in Gamboru. The Governor observed that barracks belonging to the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigeria Immigration Service were beyond repair He directed the Commissioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and Resettlement to commence processes towards the construction of new barracks for both the Police and Immigration services in Gamboru. The Governor further directed the Borno State Geographic Information Services (BOGIS) to construct a new shopping complex in the town, asking the Executive Secretary of BOGIS, Adam Bababe, to submit a budget for the project. Zulum also took a tour of structures at the Nigerian Arabic Village in Ngala town, on the invitation of the school’s Executive Director and afterwards directed the commencement of reconstruction works, with a completion deadline of end of 2022. Zulum also promised to look into other problems faced by the school to identify immediate, short, and longterm interventions by the host government. Zulum also announced plans for the urbanization of border towns in the state, one of which is Gamboru that shares a border with Cameroon, linking up with the Republic of Chad. POLL “Gamboru Ngala is one of our border towns, and there is the need for us to urbanize all the border towns in Borno State in order to enhance commercial and social and trading activities,” Zulum said.