Former deputy national chairman (South) of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, in this interview on Arise Television recently, says the party would not jettison the zoning arrangement. AKINWUNMI KING monitored the interview from Lagos and brings the excerpts: All of a sudden, what we are hearing is that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has jettisoned a major part of its culture since the return of democracy in 1999, which is the idea of zoning, rotational presidency. In 2019, there wasn’t a problem when it was said that power should go back to the northern part of the country. Now going into 2023, the party is saying that the race is open to everybody. Would this not be detrimental to the fortune of the party, particularly if the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) eventually decided to take a candidate from the south and PDP found itself with a candidate from the north? I don’t believe we have jettisoned the rotational presidency. What they have done is to reposition to give everybody the opportunity to participate, it is very uncommon. If I can back-up a little bit, historically, how did we come about zoning? Because if you don’t understand why that one was accepted, you wouldn’t know the reason why people are playing this kind of game. The founding fathers sat together when General Abdulsalam Abubakar was trying to hand over and they said “Look, let us be serious with our nation; that what has been the major setback in this country?” It has been that in the north, the minorities were to be seen and that is all. In the south, the same. So the founding fathers, Chief Bola Ige from the South- West, Pa Alex Ekwueme from the South-East, these were people who would not get in the same room and discuss politically. So, the G9 wanted to find out what exactly had been the major setback in the progress of our nation, and they thought the majority would always have their way. The minorities are to be seen and not heard. So they came up with this brilliant idea that let us divide Nigeria into six geopolitical zones so that you have the three in north (north-central, north-east, and north-west), and in the south, you have south-east, south-south and the south-west. Now, with these geo-political zones, they now sat back and said “Look, there are six top positions in the government, which are the president, the vice president, the senate president, speaker of the House of Reps, the secretary to the government of the federation and the party national chairman.” So six geopolitical zones and six top positions. 2023: Nobody Should Spoil Ubuluisiuzo, Osumoghu’s Chances… Borno Lawmaker Hails FG For Ongoing Reconstruction Of 127km… So no zone, whether you are minority or majority, will go home without something to show to their people. So that sense of commitment was established. But when you look at it like that, after eight years, all positions in the south will go to the north and all the positions in the north will come to the south. But the mistake they made was that… and it is natural, you know, you can’t find solutions to all problems, especially when it is a developing country, even developed countries do have problems. But what the founders didn’t consider was that a situation could come up where you will have another political party that can produce the president, you know it wasn’t in our political equation. So, when the APC now produced the president and he’s from the north – we had never added that into our political equations. I was also shocked when the zoning committee said “we were only allowed to handle the party and we zone accordingly.” When you look at the six top positions, if the presidency comes from the south, vice presidency would come from the north, senate presidency will come from the south, speaker will come from the north, secretary to the government of the federation will come from the south, national chairman of the party will come from the north and vice versa. So, if you are zoning the national chairmanship, you must consider where should the presidency come from? Now people from the south-east are saying President Buhari, though he is not from PDP but he is from the north and there will be another situation in the future and somebody will be a president who is from the south, do we put that as a parameter in the political equation? That is the problem PDP will be handling in the next few months ahead of us. Yes, people are angling, it should come to the south, it should come to the north and APC has said it is going to come from the south. If you remember at the beginning, APC said we don’t even believe in zoning. So, we cannot tell people that we don’t believe in zoning or that we are going to jettison the zoning concept, we will not. It would require a lot of discussions, a lot of debate with people and we will rise above that. We are lucky we still have some of the few people who are the original members, the G9. In fact, the current national chairman of our party was a member of the G9. So, there are resourceful people, we will sit down and discuss and that is the only way we can move forward. Once an agreement is made, we will all comply. The other mistake that was made at the very beginning is the fact that the concept, the norm, the culture of the party, we didn’t put pen to paper to write it down. And what I have noticed is that most times, when we get to the eight years, people start interpreting zoning in a manner where it would soothe their ambition and this is a major problem. I have been proposing, I have been putting my pen to paper that we must write these things down so that no misinterpretation will be allowed in the future. This country is growing, at the initial time, nobody thought that there could be another party that could be as strong as the PDP and the president could emerge from that, it was not in our political equation. It is part of growing, it is part of development but it is not too confusing because we will sit down like the other people who started it all started, we will sit, we will discuss and we will come with a very rational decision that will be acceptable to everybody. Will your presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar be contesting again? POLL The former vice president, Atiku Abubakar is eminently qualified like the others. The name of our party, Peoples Democratic Party, reflects the concept, the norm and the culture of our party. The decision will be by the people. Before I go on, I want to thank all the current members of the national assembly because in the Electoral Act, they have factored in direct primaries, indirect primaries and consensus, that is brilliant. I thought they were going to expunge those issues from that bill. We want to be fair to people, therefore, we will allow a lot consultations, a lot of discussion and lot of very robust debate as to how will the public feel and we will also look at the integrity, the capacity and the age and the health of the would-be candidate because all of them are aspirants now. We will look at them well so that we don’t make a mistake and present somebody who will not be able to do the work. And again, people are angling for who is going to be the president but the Constitution we are running is not working. The center is too strong, we need to devolve powers to the states, so that people will not start rushing to want to be president at the center. Let us empower the state so that the impact on the people in the state will be optimum. This issue of everybody wanting to run to Abuja, and all the resources being repackaged to Abuja and Abuja will start cutting the cake according to certain factors… no, it shouldn’t be. We borrowed the American system, let us go and take the report of the 2014 constitutional conference, let us look at it and implement it. In the PDP, we have quite a number of individuals who have indicated interest. They include, ex-senate president, Bukola Saraki, Atiku Abubakar, Anyim Pius Anyim, Aminu Tambuwal, Bala Mohammed among few others. Out of this list that we have, if you are to do a shortlist of just two people, who and who will you pick? In the PDP, before you throw in your hat, you would have made your enquiries in all the six geo-political zones. Like I said earlier that we have a political equation and all these people you have mentioned are eminently qualified to run. But they need to go around, consult and see whether they will fit into the political equation of this country and be accepted by the party. We have a procedure in the PDP, the national chairman of the party cannot come from the same zone where the presidency will come from. If you remember, the national chairman, when he was elected, said, in case the presidency comes from the north, he will resign. Because automatically, we have to go back to another convention where we will have to rezone all those party positions so that you can balance the equations between the north and the south. Still a long way though, but it is not a problem for the party, the people who are contesting are also looking at this political equation. Give us till July of this year, everything will start to get much clearer. Right now, it is very oozy. Okowa’s Aide Declares Intention For Warri South West,… Only Women Can Deliver Nigeria From Corruption, Says Karen James Will you be comfortable with a Northerner succeeding President Buhari after eight years? My position is personal. Like I told you earlier on, the party would have discussed, there would be meetings of many minds and there would be a lot of robust debates. I don’t want to start jumping into conclusions, as an elder of the party, we must follow the norm, we must follow the culture, we must follow the dictates of the discussion. And at the end of it all, whatever decision that is made by the party, we will follow it.