LAGOS  – Priests and lay faithful of Saint Paul Catholic Church, Ebute-Metta, in Mainland local government, Lagos, have called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to help reclaim their land from alleged grabbers who have already started the process of building on the land. They explained that the land in dispute was the former site of the demolished Catholic Girls Nursery and Primary School, situated directly behind the church on 117 Borno Way, Ebute-Metta. The aggrieved added that the church called for the demolition of the school, which used to be owned by the church before government took over its ownership, because the building became a hideout for criminals after the pupils were moved to another site due to the deterioration of the school. Defilement The Man Called Bartimaeus (I) The parishioners at a briefing and peaceful protest including children carrying placards to show their grievances and calling for the land to be returned, said the grabbers whose identity were unknown took them by surprise about two weeks ago, when they gained access into the compound and immediately started work, including foundation laying. Onikpede Adebayo, a parishioner and member of Catholic Men Organisation (CMO), while addressing journalists, stated: “Here on the land of Saint Paul Catholic Church, Ebute-Metta, you can see the statue of Our Mother Mary, all of a sudden, about two weeks ago, we saw people digging up the ground and pegging. So we asked them what they were doing, they said ‘they want to build a school.’ “We answered that we have no knowledge about that and there was no letter from anywhere to back that up. They also refused to tell us the client they are working with. We cannot be looking while people start working on the land that belongs to us. “We implore the government to come to our aid and see what is happening here, we want to have a dialogue and make headway. We have a lot of things to do with our land…” He also stated that about two years ago, “we saw some people, we noticed some people coming here to work, we challenged them and it almost turned into a fight. We went to the police station and the DPO called for orders.” POLL Adebayo said on noticing the development, the church went to the local government to complain but they received the reply that they were not aware. “We met with the chairperson and she said they do not know anything about the construction. This is why we called for the protest so that the state government can hear us and listen to us because we are peace loving people and do not want trouble,” Adebayo further narrated. Solomon Olatunji, an old-time resident of the area who has been a member of the church since 1959, said the site of the church land was known as Aguda, which was a pet name for the Portuguese who brought the religion. Olatunji also explained that the church has been in constant touch with the state government for the perfection of documents for the land, but the new development came to the church by surprise. He corroborated Adebayo, stating: “The statue of our Lady of Mount Carmel (title given to Virgin Mary) tells the history of the place. The school was built and owned by the church before the government in its wisdom took over the school. Of course when the school was taken over, we understand they took over the land with it. Now development came, the school building became distressed and the school was moved away from there. Some Doctrines Make Slaves Out Of People – Afolabi Church Of The Lord Visits Vulnerable Children, To Mark… “The place became fallow and we asked for the demolition of the building so we can get back our land which is supposed to be returned automatically to the church, the original owner. That has been our stand all along until suddenly we saw that some people started doing some digging and there was no information about who they are or where they are coming from. “This is why we made the call for our voices to be heard. We want our land. This is the stand of the authority here in the parish and at the Archdiocesan level. We have been in constant touch with the state government to perfect the document on this land so the development we are seeing here is a surprise to all of us.” Rev. Fr. Michael Christian Okonkwo, Parish Priest of Saint Paul Catholic Church and Dean of Yaba Deanery, said the peaceful protest was an initiative of the lay faithful which he fully supports. Okonkwo stated: “The lay faithful of St. Paul are really concerned about what is going on. Together they came and said they need to express displeasure over what is going on. “Since every organisation and individual have constitutional right to express themselves in a peaceful way, the parishioners principally decided to put up this peaceful protest. “We noticed some intrusions on our church land in terms of construction which we do not know who is in charge. We were told its being done by the education board of Lagos State but the truth is that there is no letter from any government agency, nor discussion with the church regarding the construction. “I know if the government wants to do anything they can communicate, they write letters. I remember when they wanted to erect a pole in front of the church, they wrote us a letter. But when you see people coming into a land without proper communication, this gives you worry. So we are worried as a people about what is really going on.” He further stressed that Lagos State Government considers returning mission schools to original owners. “What we want is that the land be returned to us. We are not against the government. The huge mistake the government made was taking over schools built by the Catholic Church and churches establish schools. “Many states are returning the schools. Anambra state is one of such states. If you look at it, you will see that the quality of education there has improved. We are also saying Lagos State should return mission schools to enable the state to manage the ones they have,” Okonkwo added. However, some parishioners told SUNDAY INDEPENDENT in confidence that the land in question would not have been allegedly grabbed without close sources to the church. As they noted that in the early hours, prior to the peaceful protest, a board was hurriedly mounted to allegedly feign legal permit to start work on the land. The board erected by the entrance of the land fenced with aluminum partly reads, “Lagos State Government. Project Title, Construction Of 13-Block Classroom, H/T’s Office…” However, as at press time, efforts made to reach the Local Government