LOKOJA – In her determination to rid the society of vices and ensure prosperity for the youths and vulnerable in the society, members of Kogi State Miners Association of Nigeria, have commenced aggressive sensitisation of youths to tap into the enormous opportunities inherent in the artisanal and small scale mining activities across the state. The Miners who held their stakeholders sensitisation meeting on Saturday at Ejule, Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi, challenge youths, women and vulnerable to venture into the sector , saying it has the capacity to transform their social economic lives. Addressing the audience, the Chairman of the Association in the state , Oruma Yunusa, noted that the youths who constitute high percentage of the population, have been neglected with its consequences on high crimes and criminality which has affected the society negatively. Sokoto To Generate N250bn From Exportation Of Onions Annually… Tackling Traffic Induced Indiscriminate ‘On-Street Parking’ In… He added that in attempt to rid the society of these negative tendencies in the youths, the Association has decided to embark on advocacy to woo them into the business of artisanal and small scale mining activities, across the state. Yunusa, explained that with training going on seamlessly, to adopt modern techniques in mining, lots of unemployed youths have keyed in, while calling on them to form co-operative in order to access grants and loans to advance their business. He appealed to the federal government to ensure easy access to grants and loans and to provide necessary equipment and infrastructure to help his members work effectively and efficiently. In a remark, a representative of the Federal Ministry of Mines and power, Obasi Destiny, disclosed that the artisanal and small scale miners constitute over ninety percent of mining activities across the sub-Saharan Africa, hence, her importance in lifting social economic status of the people cannot be overemphasized. He said, the federal government through the ministry has packaged robust incentives that will encourage the youths, women and the vulnerable who are willing to change their economic narratives, assuring that the sector can take huge numbers of youths and women out of Poverty. POLL He called on the miners to form cooperative societies in order to benefit from the numerous financial packages put in place by the government to help them advance their businesses. He assured of the federal government’s interest in the development of the sector tailored towards fighting crimes and criminality among the youth and to bring prosperity to the people. While commending the Association for embarking on sensitisation across the state, urged investors to be alive to the payment of royalties and to honour Community Development Agreement-CDA, to tame the tide of frequent clashes.