Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar has been advised to support younger Nigerians from the Southern part of the country in the 2023 presidential election. The former Commissioner for Information in Edo State and erstwhile spokesperson to former military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, rtd, Prince Kassim Afegbua, gave this advice on Sunday. Afegbua, who maintained that it is the turn of the Southern part of the country to produce the candidate of the PDP in 2023, noted that Atiku has always supported zoning and should not play the ostrich this time because of his selfish aspiration. UPDATE: 2023 Presidential Election Holds Feb 25, 2023 2023: Southwest Youths Storm Lagos, Vow To Change Political… Afegbua, in a statement in Abuja, said that anything short of the Southern part of the country to produce the candidate will amount to usurping the opportunity, position and chance of the Southern axis. The statement reads: “In 2023, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar should be thinking of how to support younger Nigerians from the South of the country to pursue the presidential aspiration of the opposition party. “Alhaji Atiku has always supported zoning and should not play the ostrich this time because of his selfish aspiration. “Power cannot reside in the Northern axis for 16 unbroken years. That will be against the normative order, against justice, fairness and equity. “The opposition PDP must copy from the ruling APC in ceding its ticket to the South as a form of gentleman agreement that will promote peace, unity, cohesion and collective responsibility within the party.” POLL Expressing concern over the statement credited to former Vice President where he boasted that he would always get the presidential ticket of the PDP, Afegbua said, “at a time when the former Vice President should be working towards strengthening the structures of the party for more electoral victories, the only thing that bothers him is all about his selfish aspiration. “The party did by-election in Cross River state, we didn’t see Alhaji Atiku Abubakar during the campaigns. There was a by-election in Akure, Ondo state, yet we did not see Alhaji Abubakar there. “There was bye-election in Imo state, we didn’t see Alhaji Abubakar at the campaigns. All that matters to him is all about the presidential ticket of the party. “Let me remind the former flagbearer of the PDP, that since formation, he has only represented the party once; in the 2019 presidential contest. So the claim that he had always gotten the ticket of the Party is a big lie. “In 2007, when he attempted the ticket of the party, he was shown the exit door. In 2011, he used another party platform to pursue his ambition. In 2015, yet again, he tried to use the platform of the All Progressives Congress, and he was beaten roundly at the Lagos convention. 2023: Niger Governor Joins Call For Younger President 2023: NNPP Chieftain, Majasan, Joins Senatorial Race In Ondo “That was the primary election that saw the emergence of General Muhammadu Buhari as the candidate of the APC. “It was only in 2019 that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar emerged as the candidate of the PDP at the Port Harcourt convention when it was decided by the Southern aspirants to allow All-Northern aspirants to contest the primary election.” He, however, said that the claim by Atiku that he will always get the ticket of the PDP, “flies in the face of logic, fact and reality.”