LAGOS  – Shebah Exploration & Produc­tion Company Ltd (SEPCOL) said it discovered one dead body in the vicinity of the FPSO Trinity Spirit at the Uk­pokiti Terminal, Delta State, in the early hours of Sunday. The company’s Chief Ex­ecutive Officer, Ikemefuna Okafor, who revealed this in a statement said the identity of the deceased has not been ascertained. He also confirmed that three of the ten crew mem­bers, who were said to be onboard the FPSO before the explosion, have been found in the community where the incident happened. Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari “Further update on the missing crew members. Following the unfortunate explosion and subsequent fire that engulfed the FPSO Trinity Spirit at the Ukpokiti Terminal in the early hours of Wednesday, 2nd of Febru­ary 2022, we can confirm that three crew members have been found alive in the com­munity and our priority is to ensure that they receive the appropriate medical attention they need. “As earlier confirmed, the fire burnt out completely as of Thursday afternoon, 3rd Feb. 2022, thus enabling closer in­spection of the vessel. A joint investigation visit (JIV) with the relevant authorities, stake­holders, and expert organisa­tions took place on Saturday, 5th February 2022. “The focus of our joint efforts is to prioritise investi­gations towards establishing the whereabouts, safety, and security of the seven crew members still missing, clean up and limit damage to the en­vironment, and establish the cause of the explosion. “We appreciate the assis­tance provided by the Clean Nigeria Associates, the Chev­ron team, NOSDRA, NUPRC, SPDC, NIMASA and people in the community, particular­ly the fishermen, who have been of immense assistance since the incident occurred”, the statement noted. He advised members of the public to continue to keep away from the area, while his company’s Crisis Manage­ment Team monitors devel­opments in the investigations and update all stakeholders with new information accord­ingly.