Prince Adeyinka Aroyewun is the National President, Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he discusses how government’s policies affect the maritime sector, among other national issues. Excerpt: Could you tell us about the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) of which you are the president? The Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) is a collaboration of transport unions and associations in the maritime industry. It currently has nine affiliated unions and associations and some corporate branded truck owners. These unions and associations include the Amalgamation and Container Truck owners’ Association of Nigeria (ACATOA), Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Container Truck owners Association of Nigeria (COTOAN), Kirikiri Truck and Park Operators Forum (KKTPOF), Logistics Practitioners Association of Nigeria (LPAN), National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW, Heavy Duty Section), Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN, Haulage Section), Truckers and Carriers’ Association of Nigeria (TACAN) and Young Truck Owners Association of Lagos (YTOAL). This is a collaboration ruled by a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by members, most of whom are registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). We have our Board of Trustee (Advisory Council) and our management committee (among whom the executive members were elected) as the leadership structure of the collaboration. The BoT chairman is Otunba Olaleye Thompson, while myself, Comrade Adeyinka Aroyewun, is the National President of the collaboration. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award How would you say that the members of the unions and associations have been helping to boost the national economy? Members of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) have been helping to build the economy in so many ways. The economy is tending more towards revenue generation from import and export. As a matter of fact, the non-oil revenue is about 40% of the federation’s income and the imports and exports contribute over 80% of this. A very important aspect of import and export is maritime transport and logistics. This is because the goods can only get to the destination with the services of our members. Our contribution to the nation’s economy is very huge. We also pay taxes and rates and also do some corporate social responsibilities. What are some of the challenges being faced by the groups under the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA)? The groups under the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) face mainly the challenges of insecurity in the country, especially in the areas of touts disturbing our businesses, overzealous enforcement teams, who engage in extortion instead of enforcing the law and compromises the systems. There is also the problem of armed robbers who hijack our trucks and cargo. Also, there is the poor state of the roads leading to accidents and death of many drivers. There is also the issue of non-protection of small-scale indigenous businesses which has resulted in loss of jobs and patronages of foreign companies. Another challenge is inconsistent policy formulation and implementation by the governments, which also affect our business and operations adversely. What is your take on the economic situation of the country? POLL The economic situation of the country requires more attention. The foreign exchange and the inflation rate are all negatively affecting the cost of doing business and standard of living. The cost of parts for our trucks has risen to the roof top and they are even substandard. The cost of diesel is now N420 per litre as against N200 a few months ago. So, the maritime sector needs a lot of attention and support from the Nigerian governments for it to be in a proper position to help boost the nation’s economy more. Nigeria has been borrowing from foreign countries and bodies to finance its budgets. How do you see this development? To borrow to finance our budget is not the problem, but the aspect of the budget we borrow for. We can borrow for investment, but not for consumption as is the case now. We can have some respite if we pay more attention to our export policies. Compare the import/export ratio in our country. We do more import than export. It is not that we cannot bridge the gap. We shall earn more in terms of foreign earnings by putting up policies that can stimulate export. How best do you think the issue of congestion of Nigerian ports could be solved? Port congestion is a yet-to-be resolved issue. The major issue is the mismanagement of empty containers. A lot of people think the traffic gridlock on the road is the congestion, that is the effect and not the cause. All trucks you see on the road are in transit to the ports. They are there because the admission process is slow and inefficient. The terminals in the ports are either not admitting due to several reasons, including compromise or corruption, or that the system is not working. These inefficiencies are still there, but the failure is hinged on the truckers to cover up for their inadequacies. Shipping companies have insufficient spaces for their empty containers and equipment is inadequate for their operations. 2023 Elections: Women Group (NCWSN) Clamour For Mass… APC Chieftain, Alao Faults Makinde’s Peace Talks With Area… Would you say that the federal and state governments are doing enough to support the maritime business in Nigeria? The federal and state government needs to do more to support maritime businesses in Nigeria. Inconsistent policies, lack or obsolete infrastructures, and a very harsh business environment are areas of concern. What is your view on the state of insecurity in parts of the country? The state of insecurity in parts of the country requires urgent attention. The loss of lives and properties is condemnable. It is impacting negatively on every sector of the country. How do you see the rise of political activities now when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not given the go-ahead for such? Our union is apolitical. But, we encourage our members to perform their civic responsibilities. We register to vote and some of us aspire for various political positions in their individual capacities. The rise in the political activities in the nation is not abnormal, but we advise politicians to play by the rules. We reject violence in the electoral system. Our union is not available as a political instrument for any individual or group. What is your advice to your members and the Federal Government? To our members, I advise them to live and operate by the rules and regulations surrounding our business and should stop patronising touts in the course of their businesses. My advice to the government is to involve the critical stakeholders in policy formation. The government should also address the issues around insecurity squarely.