ABAKALIKI – Youths under the aegis of David Umahi Youths Movement For Presidency on Wednesday held a solidarity march in support of the presidential ambition of Ebonyi state Governor, Engr David Umahi in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi state capital. The youths numbering over 10,000, caused heavy traffic gridlock as they marched along the major streets and roads in Abakaliki professing their support for Umahi to be president of the country in 2023. The youths were made up of women from Hausa and Yoruba communities in the State. 2023: Bala Mohammed Visits Obasanjo, Says APC Zoning No Threat… Tambuwal Presidency Will Restore Sense Of Oneness, Patriotism,… The pro-Umahi’s group who carried placards with various inscriptions staged an acrobatic show with power-bikes and tricycles. The National Coordinator of the group, Hon. Chika Nwangele noted that the presidential ambition of Ebonyi State Governor had become a common project and agenda of Nigerians, especially the youths. Nwangele expressed satisfaction that Umahi had the capability to rescue and transform the country from the security and economic challenges. “David Umahi Youths Movement for Presidency is one of the groups across the country that is adding voice to the clarion calls for Ebonyi State Governor, Engr David Umahi to rule Nigeria. We are concerned that if Umahi becomes Nigeria’s president, he will rescue and transform Nigeria. “With the Ebonyi example, Umahi is one of the leaders who believe in a United Nigeria where justice, equity and fairness reign. He is also an infrastructural giant who has utilized the meagre resources in Ebonyi state to transform the State to compete with major cities in the country”. POLL “We assure Nigerians that Umahi is the answer to our numerous challenges and problems in the country. We want to appreciate all the ethnic nationalities in Nigeria for their series of endorsements of Umahi for the Presidency in 2023. It’s a clarion call which I want to appeal to all Nigerians to support the movement,” Nwangele said. Receiving the group, the chairman of the All Progressives Congress in the State, Hon. Stanley Okoro applauded the group for their show of support for the Governor. He said that Umahi was prepared, tested and trusted to bring all the needed change in Nigeria. The chairman who was represented by the member Governing Council Federal Polytechnic Bali, Taraba State, Comrade Okenwa Nnachi noted that there were many indications that Umahi’s presidential ambition was a reality. He called on all Nigerians to support the presidential ambition of Umahi for the betterment of the country.