***Calls On Buhari, Others To Step In BENIN – The youth wing of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ovia North East local government area chapter of Edo state has accused the state judiciary led by the state chief judge, justice Acha of assisting the state Government to deprive 14 members elect of the Edo state house of assembly from discharging their constitutional duties to their various constituencies by delaying the dispensation of justice. The APC youths noted that the 14 members elect’s case which has been in the law court for over two years without hearing or proceeding, has denied no fewer than 1.6 million people of Edo state representation. Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Confirmation Of Gumus, APC Member As INEC Commissioner, Coup… This was contained in a statement titled “Nigeria constitution under treat in Edo” and signed by Lucky Omakaro, APC Youth Leader, Ovia North East LGA, Edo state. Omakaro said, “In this crusade, are, myself, 13 ward youth leaders and the 296 unit leaders in Ovia North East have informed our council party chairman, Hon Oscar Aghedo that it is a slap on Nigeria democracy, Ovia people and our national assembly that those who we elected to speak for us( Barr Vincent Uwaedia and Hon Dumez Ugiagbe) both from Ovia North East constituency 1&2 and other 12 members are not allowed to do so by one man who is running the state as a military administrator. “We therefore wish to call on our president, Mohammadu Buhari, the Senate president, the speaker of the house of representatives, the chief justice of the federation and all lovers of democracy to call to order the Edo state judiciary, led by the chief judge, justice Acha, who is assisting the governor to teleguide the case in question in court. “We are passionately appealing to them to wade into the matter to save democracy and avert the the complete break down of law and order in Edo state as this conspiracy of silence is a clear danger to our democratic practices, because as youths, we will stand firm to defend democracy any day at any time, which some persons paid the supreme price for in Nigeria” The Ovia North East youth leader recalled, “it was presumed as a joke, when sometime three years ago, after long delay, governor Godwin Obasaki inaugurated the house with 10 law makers on June 17, 2019 at late Night while some lawmakers were forcefully kidnaped under gun point to present themselves for inauguration at late night just to form the required quorum in disguise. POLL “Whereas section 19 of the Constitution of Nigeria stipulates that a state house of assembly must not be less than 24 members, suffice to say that the Edo state government is illegally running the state with a defective legislative arm, leaving about 1.6 million people without representative in the state. What a country! “This illegality must be stopped and the judges who have joined in this act must be brought to justice without any further delay because this act of illegality is almost becoming a precedent in our democracy” he declared.