LAGOS  – There seems to be no end in sight in the feud between Satellite Town residents and owners of Tank Farms sited in the community as they both trade words on the suitability or otherwise of having the Tank Farms there. Daily Independent investigation reveals, that while the residents are daily complaining over the discomfort they experience as a result of the operations of the Tank Farms and that of the drivers of the trucks that move the products in the tanks, owners of the Tank Farms on the other hand, say their operations ‘are within the ambit of the law’. Some of the residents who spoke to Daily Independent, say the sitting of the Tank Farms in a purely residential area, amounted to a gross violation of their fundamental right to a peaceful existence. We Are Using Advocacy To Stamp Out Quackery In Our Profession –… Building Collapse: Experts Proffer Stiffer Sanctions For… Chief Nndozie Nwachukwu said that the operations of the Tank Farms have become unbearable and a major discomfort to residents who are saddled daily with the responsibility of engaging drivers of these trucks for the right of way. His words: “ It is quite unfortunate that some people could think of sitting Tank Farms in a residential area. Everyday, we live in fear of our lives because anything can happen and the consequence is best imagined. We can no longer fold our arms and wait for the inevitable to happen”. A retired military personnel, Olugbeyega Akinbami noted with disbelief, the sitting of Tank Farms in an area earmarked as residential. He said: “I have been living in this community peacefully until suddenly, we started seeing the emergence of the Tank Farms. Initially, we thought it was a one off thing but to our dismay it escalated. We won’t allow it stay as any explosion would be very devastating. Its consequence would be worse than the bomb blast that occurred at Ikeja Cantonment a few years back” In her submission, a prominent businesswoman, Chief(Mrs)Anthonia Chikelu noted that while they were still complaining about the existing Tank Farms, there are ongoing plan to site another at Liverpool Zone 2 which is ‘highly vulnerable’. POLL According to her, it is quite unfortunate, that since the Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development Tpl(Dr)Idris Salako addressed the media with a promise to relocate the Tank Farms to Ibeju-Lekki, nothing tangible had been done to remove them from Satellite Town. She was quick to add “is the government waiting for us to be consumed by fire”. However the Commissioner who spoke through the ministry’s Deputy Director (Public Affairs Unit),Mr.Mukaila Sanusi said that the state government has not abandoned the idea of relocating the Tank Farms. His words; “ The Lagos State Government will surely relocate the Tank Farms but it should be noted, that it’s going to be a gradual process. We are still putting the logistics in place. He said: “ We appeal to the owners of the Tank Farms to provide Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for the host community, adding that they should cohabit and coexist in the meantime. OneLand Reveals Four Factors For Safe Real Estate Investment LASG Monthly Rental Scheme To Take-Off Soon – Awoyinka Mr.Ayo Cardoso, the Zonal Coordinator of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR),Lagos Office, said the sitting of the Tank Farms “ was a huge investment’ pointing out,that shutting down the Tank Farms would have a negative effect on the economy.