As the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) prepares for its impending national convention amid claims and counterclaims of zoning of key positions of the party, facts have begun to emerge to the effect that governors on the party’s platform also known as ‘Progressive Governors’ did not zone any position as alleged. This is, even as, many heavyweights and pressure groups within the party have also relentlessly proposed one system or the other, with a view to outdoing one another, just as some others are even allegedly working to sabotage the convention entirely. Sources within the ruling party and the convention planning committee led by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, who pleaded anonymity have lamented the intensity of horse-trading among the party faithful, so much that it has become a case of “one day, three dramas”. Wike Applauds Diri, Mocks APC Governors Over Excuses On… Convention: APC Governors In Crucial Meeting Recall that the convention was fixed for Saturday 26th February 2022 with six top contenders, all from the north, gunning for the party’s top job. The front liners are former Governors, serving Senators, a serving Minister and others who believe the party stands a better chance of consolidating on its electoral fortunes with them at the helms of affairs. While the sources believe that seeing aspirants of northern extraction is an indication that the party’s presidential ticket is headed for the South, rumours have however been rife that the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) had zoned certain positions, even though Governor Buni had countered it same at every turn saying, the committee “had not concluded on any zone to produce any position.” Lending credence to the said sharing formula via zoning, a front-page story of a leading national daily of Thursday, February 17, 2022, with the headline, ‘Finally, APC Governors Reach Consensus, Zone Chairmanship To North Central’; stated that “the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) met in Abuja on Wednesday and agreed to zone the number one seat to North Central while zoning the Deputy National Chairman (DNC) and National Secretary Positions to the South.” Though the report never mentioned in particular, names of those in attendance that could have taken such vital decisions on behalf of the party, it only said a source close to the Governors who did not want his name mentioned. POLL According to the “source”, the Governors also micro-zoned the chairmanship to Benue State and tipped Buhari’s Minister on Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Senator George Akume. However, an impeccable source who’s very familiar with happenings within the Convention Planning Committee confirmed to this newspaper on Thursday evening that the Progressive Governors did not conclude on zoning the positions. “Yes, they (Governors) met but they could not resolve on the zoning. Although many who spoke were in support of zoning the chairmanship position to North Central, but it was not concluded,” the source said. “It is after they must have convinced the Southern Governors and they have accepted it that we can say the PGF has zoned the position. If anyone tells you anything otherwise, let him mention the names of the Governors in that meeting and also mention whoever addressed the press. In such meetings, the Chairman of the PGF would address the press and open up on the decision of his forum. But for now, nothing like that”, a close source at the PGF added. Also, another source at the CECPC who pleaded anonymity said, though the PGF has the right to suggest to the planning committee or offer advice, just like any other group or organ in the party; the Governors had not written to the Committee on anything zoning. APC Chairmanship Aspirants Showcase Programme Ahead Convention APC Governors In Closed-Door Meeting “I understand their Tuesday’s meeting on zoning ended in deadlock, so don’t let anyone deceive you. Come to think of it, why would they zone a position to North Central and sat there immediately and picked only one aspirant, is Akume the only aspirant from North Central? Why would they ask those from the South to go home and meet with aspirants and bring candidates for DNC and Secretary, but in the case of chairmanship, they said they have picked a particular person. “I don’t believe such cock and bull story and I think nobody would even believe it. We have channels of communication at our party. APC is a ruling party that has everything, the Progressive Governors that I know, are very experienced and principled. They would not want to send such a sensitive message to the CECPC via the page of a newspaper. “They have the right, like any other organs of the party, to advise the planning committee, but nothing like that has happened. We are working diligently to see that the convention holds and with a credible outing too”, the source added. However, on his part, Edwin Ochogwu, a House of Assembly aspirant from Benue State, told this newspaper that, “the PGF is divided into 3 to 4 camps and the news could be the latest mischief by one of the groups to deceive other members of the PGF and the general public”. “Already, the proposed national convention has been a subject of controversy for the past few weeks, with some calling for its postponement, amidst crises at state chapters and law suits. “As at now, several persons are in court, either at the state levels and national, trying to stop the convention,” he said.