Egypt has called for adopting a clear African strategy to eliminate the threat of extremism and terrorism. Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry chaired the Egyptian delegation at the meeting of the 35th Ordinary Session of the African Union (AU) Assembly, held over two days in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. In his speech, Shoukry said Egypt spared no effort to help overcome the African countries’ challenges to achieve the peoples’ goals and aspirations towards a better future, reviewing the Egyptian Vision of peace and security on the continent. EU Donates Additional Two Million Doses Of COVID-19 Vaccine To… Rep. Onuigbo Bags Climate Champion Award The Minister praised the launch of the Africa Union Center for Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development (PCRD) in Cairo in December 2021, noting that it would be the executive arm of the post-conflict reconstruction and development policy adopted by the AU. Shoukry stressed the need for joint action to identify the causes behind the internal turmoil in some African countries in light of their security and economic problems. The Minister stressed the need to strengthen the national governments’ institutional structures and formulate a clear African strategy to eliminate the threat of extremism and terrorism. Shoukry also attended the meeting of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change (CAHOSCC) on the sidelines of the Assembly. The Minister affirmed that Egypt would speak up for Africa’s aspirations to cope with climate change during the coming 27th session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP27) that is set to take place in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh in November. POLL Despite being the least contributor to polluting emissions, Africa has been negatively impacted by climate change, Shoukry added. He pointed out that the continent is receiving “inadequate” financing to cope with climate amid its limited ability to obtain the modern technology needed to adapt to the negative repercussions of climate change. On the summit’s sidelines, Shoukry met his Somali counterpart, Abdisaid Muse Ali, to discuss issues of common interest between the two countries. The Spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Ambassador Ahmed Hafez, said that the top official highlighted during the meeting the need to ensure post-2021 arrangements of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) based on a comprehensive approach. The approach includes building state institutions, reconstruction, and economic development, explained Hafez, noting that it is not limited to security and military dimensions only. Peterside Berates Wike’s Alleged Displacement Of 100,000 Rivers… Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Egypt attaches great importance to the stability of the situation in Somalia, based on the historical relations that unite the two countries, said Shoukry. Egypt hopes for a speedy agreement among the various Somali parties over electoral procedures, putting the country back on the path to reconstruction and stability.