LAGOS – Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu assured students of the new Lagos State Universi­ty of Science and Technology (LASUST), Ikorodu, that he would make the institution big­ger and best choice in Nigeria. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who made the assurance on Friday when he stopped at the Ikoro­du campus of the University, while on his way to the com­missioning of the new plant of Kimberly-Clark Factory in Odongunyan area, also prom­ised the students that he would work towards reducing the in­stitution’s school fees. Addressing the students who came out to welcome him after his helicopter landed at the School of Technology Car Park, the governor said he is committed to making LASUST one of the best universities of choice in Nigeria. Scarcity: NSCDC Threatens To Seal Filling Stations Hoarding Fuel… APGA Governorship Aspirant Calls For Scrapping Of State… He said: “Great students of Lagos State University of Sci­ence and Technology. You are now university students; it is going to work well. We’d contin­ue to do what we’re doing to en­sure that you finish well. JAMB has put your name (Lagos State University of Science and Tech­nology) as a full university. “We know you have a small concern about your school fees, we are going to look at it and we are going to bring it down. We are going to be building this university that would be big­ger than even LASU very soon,” Governor Sanwo-Olu assured. It would be recalled that the National Universities Com­mission (NUC) Executive Sec­retary, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed on February 8 handed over cer­tificates for two new Lagos uni­versities – Lagos State Univer­sity of Education (LASUED) and Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LA­SUST) to Governor Sanwo-Olu at the commission’s headquar­ters in Federal Capital Territo­ry (FCT) Abuja. With the issuance of clear­ance certificates of operation by NUC, Lagos State University of Education is now the 56th state university and 204th University in Nigeria, as well as the second University of education in Nige­ria while Lagos State University of Science and Technology is 57th state university and 205th university in Nigeria. The two universities are in addition to the existing Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, established in 1982 by the first Civilian Governor of Lagos, the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande. Lagos State now has three state-owned universities.