LAGOS  – The International Association of Lions Clubs District 404B2 Nigeria, in conjunction with Selet Initiatives, an anti-drug abuse advocacy non-governmental organization, has organized an awareness campaign against drug abuse for the students of Government Technical College, Agidingbin, Ikeja, Lagos State. Speaking at the event with the theme “Share Facts on Drug Abuse, Save Lives, Lion Kayode Oshunuga, Governor of the district, urged the students not to engage in drug abuse. He told them that getting into drugs was easy, adding the consequences were grave and could bring shame and ruin to them and their families. Reasons Infertility Could Set In After One Year Chromosomes Abnormality In Growing Embryo Responsible For 50 %… The District Governor told the young people that engaging in drugs could stop them from achieving the goals in life and making them worthless, adding that drugs could mar their careers and potential. In her comment, Lion Folashade Ashafa, the chairperson of the committee that organised the event, stressed the need to combat drug abuse among young people, because according to her, they are the future of the country. She called on young people to abstain from drugs and spread the harm associated with drug abuse. Also speaking at the event, Pillot Gbolahan, a clinical psychologist at the Yaba Psychiatry Hospital, Lagos State, said that drug abuse has reached pandemic proportions in the country. He said that the abuse cut across all strata of society, young and old, adding that the pandemic was pervasive. He disclosed that 85 percent of people with mental issues in the country are within the age bracket of 18 to 39 years and called for measures to be taken to stop young people from accessing hard drugs. POLL In his lecture at the event, Mr. Sunny Irakpo, an anti-drug abuse advocate, told the students that getting into drugs was easy and cheap and that continuing in the habit is very expensive and life threatening. He advised them to be wary of the type of friends they keep, adding that most young people who are into drugs were lured by friends into the habit. The students pledged not to engage in drug abuse and promised to spread the message among their peers and others.