LAGOS – Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has congratulated Dr. Oluyomi Finnih, a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the apex leadership body of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on the occasion of his 80 years birthday. Governor Sanwo-Olu described the renowned Obstetrician and Gynecologist, who will clock 80 years of age on February 9, as one of the few Nigerian medical practitioners who have used their wealth of experience to make a mark in both private and public health sectors during their active service and left with impeccable records. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary Gboyega Akosile, on Tuesday, Governor Sanwo-Olu described Dr. Finnih as an epitome of honesty, dedication and service, adding that the GAC member has used his positions as a medical practitioner and political leader for the betterment of the people by contributing immensely to the public health sector not only in Lagos State but entire Nigeria. Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… Reps Back Bill Proposing Higher Educational Qualifications For… “On behalf of my family, the good people of Lagos State and members of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), I heartily congratulate our father, leader and member of the Governor’s Advisory Council, Dr. Oluyomi Finnih, on the occasion of his 80 years birthday. “Dr. Finnih is an epitome of dedication and selflessness in public and private service. His contributions in the field of medical practice have helped with the development of the health sector at State and national levels. “He served passionately in the Lagos State Ministry of Health and worked as Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Lagos Island Maternity Hospital for many years before going into private practice as Medical Director/Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Finnih Medical Centre, Ikeja. “Dr Finnih, as a member of the GAC has displayed exemplary leadership in Lagos politics, especially in APC, where he has been working tirelessly for many years as members of the progressive camp to ensure our party remains the ruling party in Lagos State in the last 22 years. “As Dr Finnih celebrates a major milestone by joining the league of octogenarians, we pray that the Almighty God will increase him in good health and grant him fruitful years to enable him to render more service to our party, Lagos State and humanity.”