Introduction Today, I notice that Nigeria’s equity market is becoming more interesting and I believe that many of you know factors shaping what is happening. There’s no new way to invest today than to apply the principles you already know, namely your investment objective, stop-loss and, profit target. Also, I have said it repeatedly that volatile as it is today, is the hallmark of any market, but what will keep you ahead of such is your ability to know what to do at any given time in the market. That’s why you see, at times, the market will oscillate, breakout and then breakdown, but if you understanding all of these, you will not be tossed about the market. That’s why, for me, when you see the market become more volatile, or is oscillating up and down, it is a time for you to deploy appropriate strategies, depending on what cycle the market is. In every market cross the world, there are three kinds of trends-the uptrend, sideways trend and downward trend. No matter how the market is, it will betray one of these trends, whether the market you are playing is in the accumulation, markup, distribution, or markdown stage… They are key in equity investment when you are using technical analysis tools, you will see them. But as you see them, there is need to take advantage of what is happening in the market to make wise investment decisions, because you know why you are in the market, you know what to do at any given time. That will help you stay ahead of the market. Like I just said, after you have noticed the market volatility you must be practical and honest with yourself, devoid of emotions when it comes to investments, whether you are a day, weekly, or long-term trader, let your investment objective and stop-loss guide you on what to do, or what not to do. That’s why I said at the beginning of this town hall, you don’t need to get carried away because the market is up, or down… the earnings season is more of direction and volatility. If you understand that, then you will know that the up and down movement is expected and as such you will not panic, because it offers you opportunities to make money. Vbank Unveils Thompson Avenue Roundabout, Ikoyi Why Salim Harps On Support To Local Industries As Panacea To… In equities trading, when the market is side trending, most investors start to hear different stories about why, but when it breaks out, it becomes clear to you that this market has given you a signal of where it’s going earlier. Every serious trader or investor should be interested in really looking at what the direction of the market really is. Is it a breakout now, or a breakdown? When the market is side-trending or oscillating, you may not know where it is going, which is why different stories and theories will start coming up. That is why I believe in that school of thought that “trade your chart, forget the news,” because the news will feed into the chart and also the price action. That is why also, as a good trader, or investor, your eyes must focus more on the chat. Those candlesticks will tell what is happening… the behavioural pattern of everybody, whether those who are selling or buying. It is for that reason that most times when news comes I quickly look at my chat, because it will reflect announcement such as results. Whether it is too good, or not, it will show on the share price when you see a breakout from somewhere, because there will be increased momentum… increased activities, and sentiments for that particular stock, whether negative, or positive. That means if you just trade the news alone, you won’t know the right time to make a move, but if you are positioned and as they breakout you see some volume coming around the breakout as a hint that something is happening in the market. That is how to trade. Any time you are entering the market, especially when you are trading a volatile market, your eyes must focus on every trend change, because it is very key, just like price structure. There are the things that you should note when you are looking at the candle- changes in trend and price structure. It will tell you what has happened to the price. The trend is there, but the price structure is changing… the candlestick will tell you turning green indicating a buy position, or a red for sell position. It can even tell whether it’s going up and down, plus your trend line… all these things are there to guide you. You will, therefore, not just follow the market, because something is there guiding you. There will be other investors or traders in the market that will not understanding what is going on and just be following the bandwagon as it goes up, down and sideways. But you who understand the market relatively because of the knowledge you have gathered at this town hall, as well as previous paid-for trainings you have attended over the year. It will therefore be unfortunate for you to just follow the market. At every point, you need to pause and ask yourself in which direction you should go, whether left, right or just stay still and watch. Once you know all these, I tell you, this market is a place that will make wealth for every one of us, because we know what to do and do right. I equally tell people that the stock market is not the place that you should win all the time. The important thing is to let your winning side be more than your losing side. With that principle at the back of your mind, you won’t be carried away by the fact that the market is rallying- price is going up, and as such decide to stick to your position by shifting the goalpost from your 20 percent target to 40 percent. My warning for you is that should the market turn against you the very next day and you go into loss, you will not forgive yourself. Alternatively, you could say, let me quickly jump out of this position and then the price will start rallying. Just forget about it, because you have met your target and exited that position. That is how to invest in any market situation, and now as the bourse is experiencing volatility, let me stress that you must focus on the strength, price structure, (and) relative volume- up or down. For example, we witnessed an upward movement on Friday (February 11) in the price of NGX Group, there was a little gap up, but at the close of trading, it closed the gap and at the end of the day still closed almost flat. These are what should be looking at: the volume behind the gap up, and what is the sentiment. If you understand this, you won’t just kill yourself because price is rallying. Rather, you need to know whether the price is going to be sustained. If you are there, and the price is sustainable, you just hold your position even when others are jumping out. I knew that when the NGX broke out, it won’t go far, being a newly listed company on the exchange and the information that we are seeing. The market will also place the stock where it belongs. For me, also, if a stock is selling at about N28 or N30 each and unable to pay you N1.00, N1.50 dividend, or even N3.00 per share, it may not sustain the price. As such, I can’t see NGX sustaining that price, because I don’t see anything with the way it is going that will make the board pay so much, being the first dividend since becoming a publicly traded company. It is for that reason that the price will oscillate and then pullback, after which you can take position, which means when you see such move, know that it is an opportunity for you to cash out your profit, and when it pulls back then you enter again. The company’s business model is known to us all, following which there is no need to panic. Instead, what we need to note when trading in a volatile market are: change in trend is very important, price structure is key, just as relative volume, also market direction, and timing. These are the things that you look at, like I already mentioned- your stop-loss. It is the solid risk management tool you need to adopt that will tell you at what price to exit a stock (on its way down during a fall), because it’s your fund and if you lose that money, even when the markets begins to rally again, there’s nothing for you to play. As such, you will just be hearing news about the market going up, but you cannot participate. That is why your stop-loss is key and helps you prepare always, whether you are a day, or weekly trader, or you are a long-term investor. It is applicable to everyone in the market, because there’s always movement in the market, which is why it has trend. No market across the globe is perpetually stable, hence the trend. If the price is not changing, it stops being a market, since it is because prices go up and down that you need to also study change in price structure so that you know what to do at any particular time. POLL What is your dividend forecast for Julius Berger and Presco this season? We are expecting a dividend within the range of N2.50 to N3.00 from the board of Julius Berger Nigeria this earnings season, judging by the payout ratio. Presco, on the other hand, has about N18.87 earnings per share and the payout is within the range of 50 percent, meaning that we should expect nothing less than N7.00 or N8.00 as dividend per share, and when that happens it will push the price further up. What are the updates on Union Bank, Honeywell Flour, and Oando? Participant I: There was the meeting of chief executives meeting on Thursday and as promised at our town hall last week, I raised the issue of Oando under “Any Other Business,” that the company told us about plans to release its outstanding results before end of December 2022, which negates the rules of the NGX on such matters. The rule requires that the 2021 results be filed before March 31, 2022, and that companies unlikely to present theirs within the window should present unaudited numbers before the end of January. All of these were not reflected in the Oando notification, so what are the regulators doing about it. The CEO of the NGX Limited promised that something will be done about my concern, and so we want to see what will come out of that promise. On Union Bank, there is yet no new information aside what was made available to the public and as such we are still waiting. The board meeting holds on Monday (February 14), so we wait to see what is likely to come from them as regards the acquisition and what should follow. But for Honeywell Flour, the third quarter result came out yesterday (Friday, February 11, 2022), but I know the acquisition is going on as planned and that both parties (Flour Mills and Honeywell Flour) would complete the entire process, that means if you are in the stock you can still hold your position, unless you have made profit and want to exit. True, the stock can still move higher, especially when they provide further guidance as to the acquisition deal to which we expect the market to react. If you want to enter fresh, you are free also at this point. But then also, you know that the price of Honeywell is not driven by the results released to the market right from time. For me, the news of the acquisition will ultimately support the price of Honeywell Flour Mills Wema Bank Fosters Talent Development, Employs Over 60 Young… JAMB ePINs 2022: Quickteller To Reward Candidates With Free… What are your expectations from Livestock Feeds? The market has not looked towards its direction, because the company is yet to pay dividend. Our expectation is that the directors will consider a dividend payment from the 2021 financials. The results we have seen as of Q3 is likely to support a payout. But at this time that the price is not rallying as expected, if you are in that position, you can sell 50 percent of your holding, or wait to see what the audited result would look like before moving elsewhere. But for me, from what I can see, if you are there, I would advise that because we are in an earnings season, instead of tying down your funds unnecessarily, you should jump into another position by selling half and then coming back later when there is an improvement. But if you are within the range of your stop-loss, jump into another stock like NPF Micro Finance Bank which a stock we should keep our eyes on, with its EPS of about 40 or 42 kobo. That is why we expect an improved dividend payout from that company, a situation that will further support the price. What is the likely impact of the acquisition of two Investment One Subsidiaries by GTCO? These companies were originally part of GTCO (in the days of the Universal Banking licence regime of the CBN under Prof. Charles Soludo) before being sold (through management buyout on the directive of the CBN under Mallam Lamido Sanusi, who directed a return to pure commercial banking) and now banks are returning to HoldCo, which is same as the universal banking licence regime. Coming back again into the fold, GTCO understands both companies, being previously their parent. This is going to be a plus for GTCO in the nearest future and if it is also going into Fintech, which it was not doing before and will not be an addition to its business, as it will start impacting the bottom-line, going into the future. For other companies that are now adopting the HoldCo arrangement, we need to begin to look at the likely impact on their business models, for example, Access Bank. You can see all the other companies- the registrars, Coronation Insurance, and Merchant Bank, are all going to be part of the group and they will impact the top and bottom line, going into the future. That is one advantage Stanbic IBTC HoldCo has enjoyed all the while. The reason that of FBN Holdings was not really playing out like the others is because of management and now that it has changed, I believe we would see improvements going into the future. For so long, the commercial banking business of FBN has been the one carrying the load. Now that there has been a huge write down of its non-performing loans, I see the group bouncing back strongly. I believe holding company structure is good for the banks, if they are able to manage it, because that is the only way to go now, because there is need to diversify the business from only commercial banking in the face of increased competition. Participant I: On the contrary, things may not be as simple as you are looking at it. Let me begin with Access Bank. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede and Herbert Wigwe them had a stronghold on the bank (which they acquired from the original owners with the board led by Chief Ayodeji Oni, a chartered accountant). And when Aig retired from the group, he took over the Coronation Insurance, Merchant Bank and the registrars, while other individuals had strong positions in Access Bank. Now they have realised their weaknesses and now they may decide to go to holdco, if the other one will be allowed to exchange with Access Bank shares. They have to allow for a share exchange so that both can come back together again and have a strong position. Whether that be allowed or not, only time will tell. In the case of GTCO, it is merely beating around the bush. You have sold off your good ones… Do you know that GTCO had a stake in ARM Pension Fund? Now they have sold that one out and it cannot get it back… Now, also, it owned AXA Mansard (formerly GT Insure). You know Mansard is doing very well? It cannot get that one back too, so what are you talking? You are talking Investment One and you are shouting. What is there in Investment One? Is it more than a stockbroking firm? My friend, let me tell you, if GT wants to raise its shoulders, let it go and acquire other companies that will make it a real holding company, rather than embarking on mere ego trip. These (companies being mentioned now) will not add anything meaningful to its top and bottom-line… Both will not even constitute 5 percent of the group’s income, and I don’t think it is worth shouting about that you have acquired Investment One. What is Investment One? Look, if they want to do it let them do, the sky is their limit, they can go and acquire more pension funds and add it to Investment One… They should go and acquire those that will add value, not making noise over what will not even add five percent to their books. We bought MTN IPO Shares at N169, it is now N198, do we sell and move elsewhere, or wait? Participant I: MTN Nigeria only wanted to know if the retail investors are those who hold for the long-term. Even if they promised one for 20, that is, five percent to those who hold the shares for one year, they know most of them will not hold it to that time, which is why they quickly released the shares to the new owners. What is the total holding stake of retail investors? 27 percent. They have released it a week ago. So, everybody that has CSCS (Central Securities Clearing System Plc) accounts have been credited, except the very few that have reconciliation issues, should contact their brokers. But, they have released it. So, the choice is yours already. You bought it at N169 each and before the IPO shares were released MTNN was trading at N200 each, and after the release, the price started falling, because the retail investors started selling and trust retail investors. The choice is up to you to either hold on for the five percent or take your 15 or 16 percent that returns you have made already. If you bought at N169 and sold at N200, your gain is N31, when you take that over this, this is almost about 20 percent. So, now the question is: do you wait for five percent and lose 20 percent, or you want to grab your 20 percent and say bye to five percent? The institutional investors who are going to hold for long have not released their shares until May 18, and therefore, not every institutional investors got their shares, including stockbroking firms because if you apply in the name of your stockbroking firm, you are considered an institutional investors, and that category has not got their shares. And, you know brokers, they are traders. Ambrose: From all that has been said now, if you are in that stock, you can take profit now, because when more of the shares hit the market, they will depress the price further. The bonus will then not hold water, but the earnings of the company will support the price. You might see oscillation and volatility in the stock as it moves up and down when the numbers are released, it will change the face of the company. I know that MTNN has capacity to grow revenue earnings, especially as it continues to expand the business further which also supports bottom line at the end of the day. But if you are a trader you can take profit and for those who want to wait for dividend, that is fine. He said also that those who bought the IPO also qualify for the dividend. The company has potential to grow higher when the numbers start coming and they meet expectations. It is also good for the long-term by virtue of the nature of its business, depending on your investment goal. What benefit can investors derive from stocks listed two exchanges? Participant 1: I think investors should look deeper at stocks with dual listing (companies whose shares are traded on two different equity markets like Seplat, Airtel Africa and Ecobank Transnational Incorporated). I want us to look at this issue. Dual listing is very, very essential, but unfortunately we don’t pay enough attention to where the money is. For instance, from January to date, Airtel gained 33 percent, Seplat garnered 30 percent; while ETI grew by 43.68 percent. These are dual listed stocks with which you can do arbitrage by finding out what their current prices are in the other markets where they are traded? I want us to pay attention to this at next week’s town hall. Please take them as part of the issues to discuss, so that we will benefit from it. EQUITY TRADERS & INVESTORS’ TOWNHALL with AMBROSE OMORDION is an excerpt of the weekly free question and answer session by Mr. Omordion, Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting Ltd, with select equity investors and traders on Zoom. For questions and clarifications: +23408028164085. email: ambrose.o@ investdata.com.ng.