Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday gave verve to the quest to ensure that Lagos remains flood-free as he commissioned the Second batch of 19 high capacity drainage clearing and maintenance equipment. Speaking at the event which took place at the EFAG Yard in Oregun, Governor Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello said never again will Lagos be branded as a flood-ravaged city. He stressed that the State Government will always be a step ahead in terms of its preparations for the rainy season and the aftermath because of the nature of Lagos as a coastal city. Tainting Insecurity With Politics Bane Of Nigeria –Adesina U.S Capitol Invasion: Trump Loses At Supreme Court He said his administration will consciously continue to position the Office of Drainage Services to perform its statutory roles adding the equipment will be evenly deployed to every part of Lagos. He explained that the complaints of non-removal of silts from drains in quick times have been addressed with the new tipping trucks amongst the equipment. The Governor who said the equipment and vehicles represent the second batch to be procured said more will be provided in due course. The Commissioned drainage maintenance equipment comprised of two (2) Loader Black Hoe Model, One (1) Low Loader Trailer, One (1) Track Loader, Four (4) Wheel Pick up, Five (5) Tipper Truck, Two (2) Light Cargo Truck, One (1) Low Bed Horse One (1) Crane Truck as well as Two (2) Floodlights all to be used in our fight against flooding in the State. In his remarks, the Special Adviser on Drainage and Water Resources, Engr Joe Igbokwe said the government is aware of its responsibility to evolve strategic methods that will improve the environment and guarantee that the State is flood-free and beautiful for residents. POLL He added that this feat can only be achieved through sustainable cleaning of all drainage channels in the state. Also speaking at the Commissioning, the Permanent Secretary Office of Drainage Services, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde said the Ministry is confident that the injection of the new set of equipment will improve efficiency in providing all-year-round drainage maintenance for effective and efficient flood management in the State. The Permanent Secretary said the first batch of equipment were procured in 2019 and had since been put into use adding that the second batch being commissioned will also be used to complement existing ones. The Governor’s representative later handed over the new equipment and trucks before taking a ride in one of the tipping trucks alongside the Special Adviser, Engr Joe Igbokwe to the admiration of all those present.