It is the private sector that drives the process and government role is to create conducive environment through sustainable policies which stake holders in Agricultural sector such as RFAN (Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria) and the parent body ALFAN (All farmers Association of Nigeria) should be part of, that will encourage private sector participation. For instance, government policy on rice importation ban paid off, the rice value chain has been improved as many investors invested into branding, processing and packaging and machineries that has improved the quality of our local rice. I can stand to say some our local rice can compete with the foreign both in quality and finishing. Viable and sustainable jobs are now available within the value chain. Driving Private Sector Investment in Wheat Seeds Production Embrace Urban Farming To Boost Food Security, Lagos Tasks… In this year, there are a whole lot of opportunities for those that wants to invest into rice value chain as RFAN launch dry season farming such as: – • Productive resources e.g., seeds, fertilizers, equipment, energy, machinery. • Facilitative services e.g., credit, insurance marketing, consultancy, branding. • Storage or warehousing, • Processing and packaging. POLL • Transportation and distribution. • Irrigation equipment and services With revolution in Agriculture, the business of Agriculture within the rice value chain has been made attractive. Every kobo invested into rice value chain this year will have sure return on investment. The multiplier effects of the success of rice value chain on the Nigerian economy is far enormous, with the current agricultural income of the country, put at N15 trillion as against the potential value of about N40 trillion. Nigeria could pride herself as an investment hub in Agriculture and put the nation back to limelight as an agrarian nation that can guarantee food security and generate foreign exchange through Agro produce exports with the improvement in the rice subsector of Agricultural sector I can say so. CPFAN To Establish Processing Factories In Six Zones X-Raying Critical Role Rice Value Chain Plays In Economic… Opportunities With The Rice Value Chain Rice Input Dealer: Rice input shop is an enterprise that makes it possible for availability, accessibility and affordability of all the inputs you need for rice to grow and be harvested such as fertilizer, agro-chemicals, improved quality highbred rice seeds, small farm implement, rice branded sacks, watering cans and irrigation apparatus etc. for farmers to purchase both in the rural areas and in cities. It is a growing business opportunity that federal Government and international agencies are interested in by establishing and commissioning of One-Stop-Shop Agro-inputs Centre to promote food security programs, Feed the Future. Rice Farming: Rice farming is an opportunity in rice value chain, and you can make your money in the rice value chain farming rice; in some areas they farm rice four times in a year while some farm only once or twice. When you make it your business you will develop a system to will help you farm up to four times every year no matter the season and this money. We have different varieties of rice in Nigeria, short and long grains, brown rice. Rice in Nigeria test differently because of soil texture. Return on investment is high as the demand for rice is limitless. Rice Processing And Packaging (Rice Milling): A rice mill is a food-processing facility where paddy is processed to rice to be sold in the market for food. The entire product is procured from paddy fields, milled and processed hygienically in modern machinery and dust-free environment and cleaned through sorting machines. Rice processing involves several steps: removal of the husks, milling the shelled rice to remove the bran layer, and an additional whitening step to meet market expectations for appearance of the rice kernels. Investors can go into rice farming and rice processing or rice milling plant. Rice milling projects will best be sited in these areas where rice is grown in order to reduce the cost of transportation of the paddy. To set up this project, a minimum space of a plot of land is required to dry paddy rice after harvesting. The components of machines required to set up this project are cleaning facilities, Dehuller, boiling tank, dryer, Polisher, Bagger and other miscellaneous equipment such as wheel barrows, weighing scales. Some of these machines can be fabricated locally. They can also be imported from Europe and some known Asian companies. Prospective investors would be given details on these machines. Rice Distributor: As a rice distributor you can make so much money from rice value chain. This is because you stand between the miller and the retailers/consumers. All you need is your capital and warehouse, but you need to know the market very well. Giving Support Services: Supportive service such as farming and processing equipment service: This is a loan kind of in which the lender buys and owns equipment and then rents it for agricultural business at a flat daily or monthly rate for a specified number of days or months. It also could be warehousing, financial service, logistics, capacity building etc. Rice Processing And Packaging Business: With the revolution in rice value chain, you are assured of getting enough quantity of local rice paddy and semi processed rice to process, package and brand into your own name. The local rice are available in different states in Nigeria such as Kano, kaduna, Enugu,Gombe State, Niger State, Kebbi State, Ebonyi State, Anambra State,Cross River. Finally, the return on investment is sure as a result of ban on rice importation and Nigerians are now aware of the nutritional value of local rice to foreign rice which has little or no nutritional value. As far as you have good rice to your brand name you will sell and be patronized by Nigerians.