ABUJA – Front line governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, Hon. Abdulrazak Sa’ad Namdas has said that he is running an issues-based campaign, one that focuses on uplifting a significant percentage of the people out of crippling poverty in his state. Namdas, the most visible and arguably most popular of all aspirants yet in the state, was speaking to journalists after the commissioning ceremony of his Adamawa South Senatorial District zonal campaign office, held on Saturday in Numan. The lawmaker who currently chairs the House of Representatives Committee on Army, said he is a “homemade leader” who understands the challenges facing his state, just as he is in tune with the yearnings of the people. More People Still Arriving To Live In Britain Than Leaving —… Recall that the lawmaker recently opened his first campaign office in his Jada/Ganye/Mayo/Belwa/Toungo Federal Constituency. He said: “You will see that the campaigns that will be coming will be issued-based. We should stop seeing politics as a dirty game. As much as the population of people here is very large, there hasn’t been any fighting, everything has been done in an orderly fashion. “We have not said anything against anybody. What we have been able to do is tell the people what I have to offer and that I have the capacity to lead the state. This is the message that we are sending, it is now left for the people to decide.” “I am the son of the soil; I am the son of the downtrodden. I started from scratch to the top. I have gone through the leadership processes. I haven’t said I was born at the top, rather I started from the ground and God is lifting me up, so I know all the challenges the poor man is facing in Adawmawa, I have seen them all. “Again, I am highly experienced in governance. I have been in government from 1999 till date. I have gained experience from working in the executive arm in Adamawa State to the National Assembly where I even served as a member of the international parliament. I will deliver the dividends of democracy,” Namdas said.