ENUGU – Jasper Nduagwuike, Pres­ident, Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), has said that insecurity in the South-East has left the region barren. Nduagwuike said this while speaking with journalists in Enugu shortly after his inves­titure as the 16th President of ECCIMA. He said, “Imagine an econo­my that does not work on Mon­day, what kind of economy is that? An economy that does not work four days in a week, what kind of economy is that? What kind of economy are we building? Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari “Unfortunately, business is moving out of the South-East slowly, we had a similar inci­dent in Nnewi and before they knew what was happening, spare parts marketers moved to Ladipo Market in Lagos. Ladipo Market was not there before, it was the movement from Nnewi that created the Ladipo Market and nobody came back because once you leave, you have left. “And again business is moving to Asaba, Uyo, Port Harcourt, business is moving to states around the South-East, and the South-East is left bar­ren due to insecurity. “Before this problem start­ed, Igbo’s have started coming back to establish in their states but with this situation, nobody want to come around again. If you ask them to bring their investment home, they will tell you that their investment is safe where they are due to insecurity challenges in South- East, they don’t want to come home and invest anymore, so something must be done about the security situation in the South-East so that we can have a situation where the South-East will thrive econom­ically, politically and be stable again,” he said. On the forthcoming trade fair in the state, Nduagwuike assured that the trade fair will be held in Enugu this year de­spite the insecurity challenge. He announced that four countries have shown interest in participating in the trade fair, assuring that it will be a wonderful outing. POLL On the belief that ECCIMA only organises trade fair, he said, “It’s unfortunate that peo­ple now associate us to trade fair alone. But we do not engage in organising trade fair alone, we are set to move to excellence, visibility, and relevance so that government will consult us be­fore they make the budget and also want our input in policies that they will make”. On the abandoned trade fair complex, he said, “For 32 years, we have pleaded with the Federal Government but unfortunately, they have left us on our own to do what we can but by the Grace of God, we are ready to complete it”.