***As Ekweremadu’s Governorship Ambition Threatens ABUJA – Senator Ike Ekweremadu’s governorship ambition is under threat, following the position of key political leaders in Enugu state, who have asserted that the zoning of the governorship position to Enugu East senatorial district is irrevocable. According to the statement by Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, old Anambra state governor, Jim Nwobodo, former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Okwesilieze Nwodo, former President of the Senate, Ken NNamani, former governor, Chimaroke Nnamani and his successor Sullivan Chime affirmed that it is the turn of Enugu East to produce the next governor in 2023. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award If the position of these political leaders in Enugu carries the day, it would put paid to the governorship ambition of the former deputy President of the Senate, Sen Ekwerenmadu from Enugu West senatorial district. The principle of zoning of key political offices have been sustained in the state since 1999. Senator Chimaroke Nnamani from Enugu east zone was the governor of the state from 1999 to 2007, followed by Sullivan Chime from Enugu west zone from 2007 to 2015, while the incumbent governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from 2015 to 2023, is from Enugu North. Senator Nnamani, in his statement in Abuja, commended the political leaders; Ugwuanyi, Nwobodo, Nwodo, Ken Nnamani and Chime for their independent positions, affirming the zoning principle as well as the turn of Enugu East zone to produce the next governor. Nnamani reiterated that justice and fairness demanded that the zoning principle be respected by the political players in the state, stressing that “it has fostered peace and harmony while giving every zone a sense of belonging”. POLL He said: “After reviewing the principled stands of the respected elders and statesmen, which included four former governors and a former Senate President, I am convinced more than ever before that Gov. Ugwuanyi and the political leaders in the state will be guided by keen sense of history and conscience in picking the next governor of the state from Enugu east zone”. Sen Nnamani described zoning as a major selling point of PDP in Enugu state, reiterating, “it has ensured peace, balance and even development.” He expressed hope that other political parties including All Progressive Congress (APC) and All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) will follow suit in upholding zoning and ceding their governorship tickets to Enugu East zone.