ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, has  disclosed that the Administration is ready to partner with result-oriented organizations willing to provide quality healthcare services to residents in order to meet the high demand of the people. While restating the Administration’s commitment towards strengthening the existing health facilities across the six area councils of the territory, in order to meet the healthcare needs of its teeming population. Aliyu, who made the commitment at the grand opening ceremony of a state of the art laboratory centre established by the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre in Abuja, noted that the duty of providing quality healthcare services is a daunting task that must be achieved. Religious, Community Leaders Parley With YSCHMA On Informal… Codix Pharma Deepens Healthcare Delivery, Unveils New Facility The minister, however, hinted that the Administration cannot accomplish this alone, noting that purposeful partnership remains an option the Administration must be willing to look into. She said facilities such as the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre would not only meet the healthcare needs of its host community, but also boost healthcare delivery system in the territory. According to her; “I am aware that, the need for this project arose from a practical encounter of members with inadequacy of centres for testing in our health facilities. Therefore, true to the spirit to improve on healthcare delivery system the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre decided to establish this befitting centre. This is was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by S.A Media To FCT Minister of State , Mr. Austine Elemue stating that, “I wish to use this opportunity to remind us of the popular established public health truth that prevention, early detection and treatment of any disease condition is useful and effective control measures. I therefore urge everyone present here and those who are not here but have this message to ensure wide publicity.” “The FCT Administration is ever willing to partner with result-oriented organizations such as the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre, to achieve the objective of providing quality healthcare services to FCT residents. The Administration cannot do this alone therefore purposeful partnership as demonstrated here is a great option.” POLL The minister who served as the chief host at the opening ceremony urged personnel in the facility to observe Standard Operating Procedures in taking care of clients, just as she expressed optimism that the centre would improve health outcomes for residents in the catchment of the facility. “On our part and in partnership with health stakeholders, we will continue to strengthen the existing healthcare facilities across the six Area Councils to meet the high demand of our people. “I want to commend our partner, the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre, for this centre, which I believe will improve health outcomes for residents in the catchment of this facility,” she affirmed. Earlier, the Registrar and Chief Executive Officer, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Dr. Tosan Erhabor, said the council would continue to drive the culture of quality and efficient health laboratory care to the public. While tasking the centre to provide fast, reliable and high quality medical laboratory investigations in Nigeria, he also expressed the council’s optimism that the centre would provide services based on ISO 15189 that drives medical laboratories globally. African Cancer Centre Gets Financial Advisers For $40m Facility… Why We Organise Health Talks For Companies On Stress Management… Erhabor, therefore, urged the management of the centre to engage the services of experienced, qualified and licensed medical laboratory scientists with deliberate investment in continuous professional development with services.