. To Probe Employees Compensation Benefits Obtained From NSITFABUJA – The House of Representatives over the weekend demanded that a total of 20 companies involved in manufacturing, construction, oil and gas as well as tank farms and logistic operations submit relevant documents and policies on health, safety and environment (HSE) for legislative scrutiny within the next 7 days. Chairman, House Committee on Safety Standards and Regulations, Hon. Ibrahim Hamza issued the ultimatum at the end of the 4-day advocacy and on-the-spot assessment of some companies’ facilities in Port Harcourt, River State. Some of the companies visited are Intels, Brawal Shipping Nigeria Ltd, Notore Chemicals Industries Plc, Oando Plc, West African Container Terminal, Tonimas, M-I Nigeria Ltd, Julius Berger, Total Energies, Indorama Petrochemical Ltd; Sahara Energy; Schlumberger Nigeria Ltd and Aos Orwell Ltd operating at Onne and Port Harcourt, River State. Reps Seek National Emergency On Ritual Killings Reps Move To Recover N1.2trn Unpaid Govt Funds Hon. Hamza and his colleagues from the Committee who expressed displeasure at the recurring spate of the inferno at oil and gas facilities in some parts of the country also stressed the need for all employers of labour in the public and private institutions to adhere strictly to the extant health, safety and environmental regulations with a view to securing lives of Nigerian workers and expatriates as well as investments. “As you can see, in the last 96 hours we had exhaustive and intensive advocacy tour around over 20 companies in and around River State, manufacturing companies, construction companies, oil and gas industries, we saw a lot. “What we are actually doing is to do an on-the-spot assessment and on-the-spot analysis of what is actually happening in the industry as regards to health and safety issues and we saw a lot and when we get back to our destination, we are going to have a desktop review of what we have seen and to analyze it and see how we can come up with laws or make amendments of existing laws to make sure that there is efficiency in the provision of health and safety in our working environment,” the chairman said The visit was an opportunity for the Committee to ascertain what is actually happening in the various sectors of the nation’s economy in terms of health and safety compliance by the different players in the public and private sectors; with a view to identifying many gaps that require further legislative reviews and interventions. Chairman Hamza also stressed the need for employers of labour to enforce policies against bullying and sexual harassment in the workplace, adding that: “the bullying policy is encompassing in the health and safety management systems. So I’m sure once these policies are being enhanced, all these things will be taken care of.” POLL He, therefore, directed all the companies to transmit the health and safety documents in line with the 84 checklists compiled by the Committee within the next seven days for further legislative scrutiny. On his part, Hon. Chinyere Igwe observed that the effectiveness of the various laws guiding the practice of health and safety in the country depends on the regulators and the means and ways through which they are implemented. “That is the essence of National Assembly, howbeit the House of Representatives setting up a standing committee on safety regulations and standards to give teeth and a bite to our safety regulations, which are found in our various legislations. “So the effectiveness is becoming real based on the activities of this Committee, going from company A to Company B to determine how have they been able to imbibe the culture of safety, how have they been able to institutionalize the policy on safety; how are they been able to entrench it into their working life?” he queried. In his opinion, the companies visited have accredited personnel into various safety Associations, adding that the accreditation is part of the requirements that the Committee requested, including safety policies. Reps, Sports Ministry Disagree Over Creation Of Youths Devt… Subsidy: Reps To Probe Daily Fuel Consumption Volume In Nigeria “For you to be able to have people accredited into safety organisations, it means that they have it; that is part of the requirements that this Committee has asked, where are your safety policies? “By the time they tender them, you will see that the safety policies are supposed to be authenticated by the Chief Executive of the Organisations and in all the companies we went, we saw these authentications. We also saw the policies from different segments on safety, they all have it but it depends on how have they been able to ensure that their working life goes through these safety norms?” The lawmaker maintained that “all the Safety Officers are under obligation to be certified by Institute of Safety Professionals on Nigeria (ISPON), irrespective of the foreign certification obtained.” “There is a law in Nigeria. Whether you are certified or whether you are trained in America, you must domesticate your training in Nigeria by passing through the nitty-gritty of the Nigerian safety standards to be certified,” he added. Hon. Emmanuel Ukpong-Udo in his intervention explained that the official and legal safety standards practice in Nigeria is through the Factories Act domiciled with the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment as well as the Employee Compensation Act which is domiciled with Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), respectively. According to him, the policy document regulates how safety practices and activities should be accrued out by all organisations operating across the country. “What should be done is what we are doing right now, the chairman House Committee on Safety Standards and Regulations and members of the delegation have been on oversight to these companies and firms on practices on safety to be able to oversee their standards, make corrections where necessary and also partner with them to safeguard employees in this country,” he said. Hon. Amos Magaji on his part stated that anyone practicing safety in Nigeria without being certified by ISPON contravenes the law. He added that there are some medical-related cases and Loss Time Injuries (LTIs), fatality in the documentation of incidences in the workplace. He however noted that “some organisations depending on how the supervision and monitoring is, the records may not be as correct as they are presenting it, so that calls for an investigation.” “You were there when we asked if there were claims that some of their staff have received compensation from the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). So that will also lead us to know if the statements they are making are actually correct. So we have other means where we will be able to determine whether the statistics they are presenting are actually correct,” he said. He observed that some of the organisations are scared of the oversight function being carried out by the Committee, because “they don’t want their organisations to be labeled as unsafe. That’s why some, by whatever means try to bring down their statistics.”