Floats scholarship scheme Hundreds of people, including widows, students and orphans have been empowered by a popular gospel singer, Salau Aliu Olayiwola (alias Testimony Jaga). The ace singer through his initiative christened ‘One Jesus, One Church, One Halleluyah’.is designed to lift the helpless and downtrodden in the society irrespective of their religious inclinations. PAPADEF Distributes Food, Other Gifts To Widows, Elderly 87 KWASU Students Expelled For Alleged Robbery He disclosed that Jaga. means Jesus Associate Gods’ Ambassador, so it’s not just an abbreviation, it has meaning.” Shedding more light on the programme in a chat with Independent, Jaga said : ” Yes, it’s a yearly event ,every 2nd friday in January. The idea behind this event is to bring everyone together no matter your religion or belief. According to him ,”selfless love for humanity is two folds, winning lost  souls for Christ through his spirit-filled songs and empowering the helpess who are mostly widows, orphans and others. He explained that ” we had the first in 2020, then last year,it was on a small scale due to the covid-19 pandemic but this year edition was really huge.” Specifically, Jaga said “To the glory of God, we have empowered thousands and have been able to send 40 people back to school ,while others are enjoying scholarships in various institutions. POLL “We were also able to empower over 89 widows and during our Tuesday radical prayer ,we were able to have seminars and training for over 150 people in Hairdressing,Tailoring,soap making etc. Rams and cows were giving out to different people as a means of appreciation. It has not been easy but its being worth it. Speaking further, the gospel artiste explains the operation of his music career which he tagged: Street Gospel Movement, he said It means Jesus on the street, adding that: “The Goodnews is the Gospel and the movement is to take that Gospel to the street. To every nook and cranny,to every hood,to every slum,to everyone no matter the ethnicity,religion or background.” “We are not trying to push the one religion agenda ,but we are trying to bring unity and love among people. When you shout “praise the Lord” the response is always “Halleluyah” no matter the demomination or doctrine. So, the event is to foster unity and also to empower people on the street and bring hope alive. NITDA DG Urges Students To Act Responsibly Online Foundation Wants More Support For Widows We have  just concluded the 3rd edition of the programme. “God has been our backup and of course few friends, associates, people that believe in this movement and some cooperate bodies too. Question: Haaaa!!! What an edition. This years’ edition has been the best so far.It was a glorious event. Special thanks to all that graced the event Mike Abdul was there,Woli Agba, Woli Arole,Peteru,Moses Bliss,Joe Praise,Bois Olorun, Cartoon bois, Aydexousia, Dr Ebenezer Obey and my people from the ministry, Protek, Dapsy, TB1, Isreal strong etc. We had over twenty thousand people in attendance to the glory of God and it was an amazing event this year’s was  Awesome!.” Speaking about his plan for the next edition, he said: “We have started planning already, it must get bigger every year.” We plan to empower more people, this year we gave out Minibus,Tricycle, Grinding machine, freezer etc. Next year,we are doing more .”We are giving out more scholarships too.” Testimony equally speaks about his plan for singles or videos this year, saying: “You know Jaga will always drop new songs and videos every year. Expect more singles this year backed up with beautiful videos as Jesus tarries,we will continue spreading the Gospel here through songs.” About his challenges: ” Well life is all about ups and down and sometimes it throws you lemon,all you have to do is to turn the lemons to lemonades and keep going. Yeah, there are times you feel overwhelmed but I’ve never felt like giving up. NEVER. ” My motivation has been God, good people around me and ofcourse my Man of God Rev Chris Oyakhilome Dsc.DD. without him,I don’t know what must have become my life. I am motivated to make Jesus proud and also to appreciate the good works My life coach has done in my life.” Having been successful in his career , he advised upcoming artistes, saying:”They should aim to be like themselves,being like someone else makes you a photocopy of the original. They should keep on keeping on , put the work into it, have faith in God and never give up.” He assures his fans, saying: ” Jaga is here, Jesus is here. This year we will break more grounds and move mountains.”