LAGOS  – TD Africa, one of the Sub-Saharan Africa’s leading distributors of tech, lifestyle and cutting-edge solutions has unveiled plans to engender a mindset shift and contribute to harnessing the latent potential of Nigeria’s burgeoning female population by empowering over 10 million women by 2025. Mrs. Chioma Ekeh, Chief Executive, TD Africa, while disclosing the laudable initiative recently, said the first group of beneficiaries of the women empowerment initiative was the wives of junior employees drawn from TD Africa and other companies in the Zinox Group. She explained that to flag off the project, the women had earlier toured the office facilities in Gbagada followed by another elaborate tour of the state-of-the-art Tech Experience Centre located in Yudala Heights, Victoria Island, Lagos. CABC, LCCI Sign Memorandum Of Understanding Nigeria’s Altschool Raises $1m Pre-Seed Funding To Boost… Mrs. Ekeh, while receiving the first set of beneficiaries at Yudala Heights, charged them to channel their minds with positive thoughts and be courageous to take firm actions, regardless of the circumstances. She used the peculiar traits of the TD Africa brand symbol – depicted by a lion head known as Simba, as staff of the company is addressed – as an analogy to buttress her point. “Women must remain strong, courageous and tenacious, just like the Simba. As the bedrock of the society, they should never allow their past experiences, no matter how bad, dictate their future. They must take learnings from the experiences and rise above their challenges.’’ Mrs. Ekeh urged the women to steer clear of unnecessary distractions and unhealthy competition with no one. “Continually work on improving yourself, all the time. That is enough. The results will show in good time too…. POLL “It is also important to have the “I can do” mindset. It is only in the DOING that the deeds get done. So, get up and go. Go do it. As important as money is, empowerment is not all about that. Sharing ideas, sharing authentic stories, training, mentoring are some other more enduring ways to empower,’’ she counselled. Mrs. Ekeh, while speaking on the objectives and vision of the project, stated it will positively affect millions of women in the coming years, but urged them to take advantage of the numerous opportunities that abound from the initiative. Research estimates from premier data platform Knoema indicate that in 2021, the female population for Nigeria stood at about 104 million. Over the last 50 years, the female population in Nigeria grew substantially from 29.3 million to 104 million persons, rising at an increasing annual rate that reached a maximum of 2.98% in 1978 and then decreased to 2.54% in 2021. Women, by virtue of their nature, also play essential care-giving and grooming roles in the society. Traders Applaud GOXI Micro Affordable Insurance Packages MTN Shareholders To Get N174.4bn Final Dividend Mrs. Ekeh is of the view that the foregoing makes a conscious effort to engage this gender of utmost and critical importance. ‘‘Empowering a woman means empowering the family, the community, the society and the entire country. That one woman will teach many people; from siblings, to offsprings, to in-laws and to all she encounters. Why waste this rich resource we can put to good use?” she queried.”