What is the most important issue in the current toxic petrol importation scandal? It should be the corruption involved in sending to Nigeria petrol watered down by Methanol, and thus purchased at a lower cost, while Nigerians pay the spot market price for Premium (undiluted) petrol. Why would Nigerians pay a premium price for Methanol-blended petrol when the cost of Methanol is lower than that of petrol? Where Have The Parents Gone? Petrol Subsidy Retention: President Buhari Kicks The Can Down… That is the heart of the corruption in this present scandal. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has already announced that its contract term verifiers either in Belgium or Lagos don’t check for Methanol. So, Nigeria can never know how long this scam has been going on. What percentage of petrol is additives such as Methanol? The major and most voluminous additive in petrol is Methanol. So, as the toxic petrol imported into Nigeria contained 20 percent of Methanol bought at a price lower than Premium Petrol, it means Nigeria has been cheated of the money that should have bought for her pure Premium Petrol. How does this affect the average buyer’s pocket? Petrol mixed with ethanol has less fuel efficiency. Energy-rich pure petrol has higher energy content so it delivers more power to a car. And because your engine is able to convert the fuel into more kinetic energy, you get to use less fuel but achieve more mileage. Thus, if you normally use 120 litres of pure petrol from Abuja to Lagos, the recently imported toxic fuel, made up of 20 percent Methanol, will take you no more than 80 percent of the way. You would need extra funds to purchase the 22 percent of the normal amount of petrol to complete your Abuja – Lagos trip. POLL Mr. Tom Ridge and Ms. Mary E. Peters, in “The Methanol Alternative to Gasoline” published in the New York Times of Feb. 23, 2012, stated; “The current global spot price for methanol made from natural gas is $1.13 per gallon, without any subsidy. Methanol produces about half the energy per gallon as gasoline, so you need to burn twice as much to go just as far”. Tom Ridge, a former Governor of Pennsylvania, was Secretary of Homeland Security from 2003 to 2005. Mary E. Peters was Secretary of Transportation from 2006 to 2009. These two members of the United States Energy Security Council should be credible witnesses. Now, if petrol that has been blended such that it contains 20 percent Methanol was imported into the country, and NNPC did not check for its Methanol content, and it had actually been sold to Nigerians for the full price of Premium quality Petrol, is that not corruption? Who pocketed the price differential? Once again, please note that Methanol has less energy content than regular petrol, so vehicles get about half the mileage per gallon out of it. Methanol has about half the energy density as petrol. This means that you’d need to fill up your fuel tank twice as often because Methanol will take you no further than half the range in your vehicles that you should normally travel if you have petrol in your tank. And The Sons Of Senghor Prevailed Buharitocracy Versus Banditocracy Will Methanol cause problems in a car? As Methanol is more powerful a solvent than petrol, the major problems with gasoline-alcohol blends is that the rubbers and plastics which make up hoses and seals in the fuel distribution system, especially in in older cars, are not tolerant of alcohol and will weaken and fail with extended exposure to alcohols. It is even worse on motorcycles. There are times when one is almost ashamed of being a journalist. This is one of them. Or how can it be said that for days now, the NNPC is being treated as the umpire in this mess? No, the NNPC should be at the end of finger pointing because it is at the heart of the toxic fuel scandal. That press statement from the NNPC explaining what happened should have formed the take off point for our journalists to begin to ask questions; and such questions should be directed at the NNPC first and foremost. Or why on Earth would the NNPC have claimed that; (1) its standard keeper in Antwerp does not check for the percentage of Methanol mixed into the imported fuel bound for Nigeria? And yet, in that same statement, NNPC claimed that Methanol has been a usual additive to petrol? So, if methanol is usually added to petrol meant for Nigeria, is it not imperative that the level of such additives must be ascertained in every Nigeria-bound cargo? Or is NNPC saying that the level of all other additives is not checked? If other ones are checked? Why would methanol be an exception? This is exactly what should have rung the alarm bell in every newsroom. I know nothing about the petroleum industry except that my class at Harvard once hosted Daniel Yergin, the author of the bestselling book, “The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power”, for three hours and we discussed at close range the expert on oil and its politics. The class received free copies of his book, a book that showcased the importance of the oil industry to the modern world. Meeting Daniel Yergin left a sore in my soul; that Nigeria has been wasting, and is still wasting the scarce and highly valuable resource, God gifted it with. So, I was not about to comment on this scandal until my Big Brother woke me up from sleep with a phone call and pleaded that I should add my voice to this discussion. It was the same Big Brother who told me while I was in secondary school form two that I should be a journalist. That year, he bought me my first journalism book: “Craftsmanship in Writing”. Craftsmanship in what?  For a form two student? Big Brother showed my feet the way to follow; so, when he called, I had to lock myself up and sought answers to questions relevant to this scandal. Shamefully, the media has accepted the wild tale that the real issue here is just petrol blended with a higher-than-normal percentage of Methanol. At issue here is a national swindle so audacious that its height and width and depth has not been thought of at all. A befitting approach which our media men and women would have adopted is to suspect a gulf of sleaze so wide and deep, so gargantuan, that it would require Special Correspondents who have gained some appreciable expert knowledge in the workings of the oil industry to chart the way in discussing this scandal; people who would know the right questions to ask. Without such questions, Nigeria would never get the right answer. Yet, instead of that, my fellow journalists surrendered all the initiative to NNPC and other government agencies and persons. See it this way please; if NNPC is involved in this scandal, why should it at the same time, be allowed to be prosecutor, the witness and the judge in a case in which it is also an accused? How will the truth ever surface? Yet, Mr. President has also rightly directed that the suppliers of the substandard Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called petrol, must be held accountable, in line with the law, service providers must make full disclosure of relevant information with respect to the consumption of their products and that dissatisfied consumers were entitled to a proper redress of their complaints”. Beautiful! You can’t fault this, on face value. But in essence, Nigerians will not know the agency to hold responsible if nothing is done in the end. So, it would have been better if the President set up a Commission of Inquiry to get to the end of this appallingly dreadful matter with a deadline to submit its report. Unfortunately, he did not! Have we no shame as a nation? Concerned here is a delivery made as a part of a contractual agreement between some companies and the NNPC. Mr. President is Nigeria’s Oil Minister. The Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources,  which he supervises, whether in theory or indeed, oversees and directs petroleum resources and its activities in Nigeria. And please, wait for this; the Ministry’s office is located at Block D, NNPC Towers, Herbert Macaulay way, CBD, Abuja, according to the Ministry’s internet entry. The President, Muhammed Buhari is the current Minister. So, the NNPC is a landlord to the Ministry. And Duke Oil, mentioned by NNPC as an importer of the toxic fuel, is an NNPC subsidiary. So, who is fooling whom? Exculpating itself, NNPC has explained that “It is important to note that the usual quality inspection protocol employed in both the load port in Belgium and our discharge ports in Nigeria do not include the test for Methanol content and therefore the additive was not detected at all. Why should this be so, dear NNPC? If this is true, then NNPC is the real cause of the problem and the head-rolling should start from there. Second, The NNPC lied by this claim according to a news medium: “However, in order to prevent the distribution of the petrol, the NNPC CEO said the company promptly ordered the quarantine of all un-evacuated volumes and the holding back of all the affected products in transit (both truck and marine)”. This gives the impression that not a drop of the tainted petrol got to a filling station. But that has been proved a lie, as the President, commendably, has asked that those whose vehicles were damaged by the toxic petrol should be compensated. And why would NNPC blame MRS Holdings? Well, MRS company shot back: “The adulterated fuel was bought by Duke Oil from international trader, Litasco, and it has 20% methanol, an illegal substance in Nigeria, after it was delivered with Motor Tanker (MT) Nord Gainer. “Following delivery into the tank, it was observed that the product appeared hazy and dark. The product analysis revealed that the PMS discharged by MT Nord Ganier had 20% methanol, which is an illegal substance in Nigeria. As a Company, we are aware that alcohol/ethanol is not permitted to be mixed in PMS specification.” How did the NNPC know of the adulterated petrol? It hasn’t said so. And why would it demonise MRS Petroleum company? Or did MRS Holdings refuse to play ball? Is NNPC saying that reports that OVH, MRS, NIPCO, ARDOVA and TOTAL also received the contaminated fuel from NNPC, after landing in Apapa between the 24th and 30th of January, 2022, false? Now, here is the real question: Is Methanal approved as an additive in Nigeria? And by how much if it’s approved? Nigerians have been meant to pay more for petrol with every increase in crude oil price. Yet, if some petrol is brought in laced with 20 percent of Methanol, which costs half the price of petrol, has the nation not been swindled by the monetary sum of that 20 percent? It is that national swindle that I’m concerned about, not the “methanol is a fuel additive” or “EU allows 2% of methanol in fuel” nonsense from some of my colleagues. Over ten additives go into petrol to stop foaming, give it colour, act as lubricating agent, etc. But methanol is not a standard additive. It gives less mileage performance in a car, and yet is cheaper than petrol. So, adding it to my petrol and charging me full price of pure petrol is heft. That’s why NNPC should be probed. But who will do it?