With the launch of it’s Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) training book for smallholder farmers, cocoa farmers under the aegis of Cocoa Farmers Association of Nigeria (CFAN) is set to double its annual production from 250,000 metric tonnes to 500,000 metric tonnnes. Comrade Adeola Adegoke, National President of CFAN dropped the hint in Abuja while speaking during the opening of CFAN regional office and the  launch of the GAP training book. “With this we will push our country’s cocoa production from the current 250,000MT to 500,000MT in the next two years with best and finest cocoa premium quality in the world. X-Raying Critical Role Rice Value Chain Plays In Economic… Driving Private Sector Investment in Wheat Seeds Production “The cocoa beans will be produced in a sustainable path where our ecosystem would be sustainably and environmentally preserved and our cocoa origin traceable, certificated, child labour and deforestation free in line with international acceptable standard practices outline in the GAP book,” he said. Adegoke further said that:  “Our focus as a nation is to surpass the production and productivity capacity of both Ivory Coast and Ghana in the next five years through a sustainable cocoa production where we will have a more realistic largest cocoa pyramid in the world in Nigeria to grow our foreign exchange earnings and GDP respectively. “You would recalled that we raised an alarm on the low quality of our cocoa beans and the need for our nation to brace up to change this narrative in order to prevent our cocoa from being rejected now and in the future or being sanctioned which could lead to the blockage of other opportunities that could improve the livelihood of our cocoa farmers in Nigeria. “Against the above backdrop, hence the need for our association with other stakeholders to take a position among others to launch this GAP book in collaboration with Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN), the Ecosystem Based Adaptation for Food Security Assembly Nigeria (EBAFOSA) for achieving transparency and the sustainability of our cocoa supply chain taking to cognizance the protection of our environment and our biodiversity sustainably. “We are therefore, willing and  ready to partner with relevant cocoa stakeholders not only in Nigeria but in the cocoa world to make the GAP book available free of charge to our smallholder cocoa farmers in all the cocoa producing communities and cocoa producing States in Nigeria. POLL “We shall also mobilise and collaborate with our Cocoa Stakeholders in conjunction with Extension officers in the Tree Crops and the private sector on how to train our smallholder cocoa farmers on sustainable cocoa production through the usage and application of the GAP book models,” he added. Also, last year’s cocoa summit communique was also presented to the public for the commencement of the implementation by the relevant stakeholders concern. Adegoke said it is hope that the summit report will be the game changer in the paradigm shift in the Cocoa industry where the livelihood of the smallholder cocoa farmers will be improved through the implementation of the collection of $400 per tonne support aside the floor price being collected in Ivory coast and Ghana respectively to support their smallholder cocoa farmers in those countries. Speaking further, he said that the association has also decided to set up a task force on the monitoring and enforcement to make sure that the smallholder cocoa farmers follow the required  standard outline in the GAP book especially on the safe use and acceptable application of pesticide, child labour free, prevention of deforestation, putting traceability in place , having sustainable ecosystem and good quality cocoa in general. According to him, the task force will collaborate with relevant stakeholders in all the cocoa producing states in order to achieve their mandate and help in sustaining the national target of producing one of the finest and  best quality cocoa bean in the world.