***Redeploys 13 Perm Secs ***Comms, Chairmen, Others Go Into Hiding MINNA – Fears and anxiety now envelop Commissioners and other political appointees as Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubarkar Sani Bello is said to be ready to reshuffle his cabinet due to poor performance and handling of government businesses. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Convention: APC Governors Meet, Zone NWC Seats The reshuffling of the cabinet with almost all the commissioners affected, including those designated as, ‘Super Commissioners’ occupying juicy ministries is coming barely three years after it was constituted. Already, some Permanent Secretaries have been redeployed and the Governor is also said to be putting finishing touches to his new list of State Executive Council (SEC) members expected to work assiduously to ensure that the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) retains its grip on the state and the Presidency after next years’ general election. Daily Independent findings indicated that, while most of the commissioners will be shown the way out due to poor or non-performance, Special Advisers and other political appointees, including co-ordinators of some vested interest groups will be affected. This the first time in the life of the Governor Bello led administration will embark on a major cabinet reshuffle after dropping 6 Commissioners shortly before the 2019 general elections and engaging over a hundred Special Advisers as ‘Mobilizers’ in rural areas early last year. Less than two years to quit the stage, Governor Bello, a source close to state government revealed decided to ‘recruit more competent hands ahead of the 2023 political battle’, by weeding off dormant appointees that has kept the administration stagnated for too long. POLL To prepare grounds for the major re-shufflement, the source said Governor Bello had recently directed the state Head of Service, Hajiya Salamatu Abubarkar to redeploy some Permanent Secretaries while waiting for the arrival of the new Commissioners. In compliance to the order, the Head of Service Hajiya in a letter dated, February 1st 2022, Ref No/HoS/NS/044/T and addressed to all the Ministries, Clerk of the Niger State House of Assembly and the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), asked the affected Permanent Secretaries to report at their posts on or before 8th of February, 2022. According to the redeployment letters which partly indicates; “I write to convey the approval of Mr. Governor on the posting of the attached list of Permanent Secretaries. The officers are expected to report on or before Tuesday 8th of February, 2022, and you will kindly avail this office with handing/taking over notes”. It should be noted that, Governor Bello gradually started re-shufflement of the Commissioners when he ordered the swapping of Commissioners for Local Government Chieftaincy Affairs, Mallam Abdulmalik Sarkin Dage with his Youths and Sport Development counterpart, Mr. Emmanuel Umar in the wake of the Kontagora Emirate Council stool tussle last year. Though the moves which did not go down well with one of the affected Commissioners was said to be on ‘temporary arrangement’ by the Governor, it has become permanent as the affected commissioners have now spent over four months in  their new ministries without any counter directive or deployments. Anambra Chief Whip Resigns Ayu Tasks Past Governors To Bring Back Their Colleagues Who Left… With the speculation of new Cabinet members coming on board, fear has gripped most of the commissioners as they have intensified lobbying to retain their jobs even when unconfirmed report had it that over 50 percent of the commissioners will be shown the will be dropped. Governor Bello, it was learnt is hell bent on re-jigging the SEC members and even ready to drop most of the commissioners, including those being branded, ‘Super Commissioners’ holding occupying juicy and sensitive ministries since 2019. The source further hinted that, “Ministries like that of Planning and Budget which has the Commissioner for Finance overseeing it for many years now will get substantive Commissioner to head the ministry”. Meanwhile, Commissioners and Special Advisers out of fears of the unknown have started visiting God-fathers and intensely lobbying traditional rulers and the family members of Governor Bello, including his father just to make the Cabinet list. Governor Bello, according to a source who claimed anonymity is feeling highly disappointed with the performances of most of the Commissioners and has never hidden his dislike for them two years after they came on board when he first nursed the plan to dissolve the SEC. “But for the intervention of some powerful political actors in the state who had advised the Governor against plans to sack some Commissioners so as to face more important issues affecting the state and at the national level”, the source had told our correspondent. “Unfortunately, now, Mr Governor is completely disenchanted with the Commissioners over their poor performances and he could no longer hold it. To worsen the matter, the Governor is not happy with the Commissioners and Special Advisers with the way they have distanced themselves from their immediate communities. Citing the issue of insecurity as one of the reasons for a near total disconnect from their people and constituencies, but the Governor is not taking that as an excuse, the source said adding that these, “Commissioners and Special Advisers behaviours have further widened the gap between the government the people”. He added that, “Most of the citizens are no longer feeling the presence of government and many of them are now asking of what importance after all is government that cannot provide security for them even in their immediate homes”, he added. Daily Independent investigations also revealed that some Political appointees have relocated from personal houses to hotels where they pay as much as N200, 000 per month and also moved their families to places of safety because of the worsening security concerns. “Also, some of them who could not relocate to hotels for fear of insecurity and to avoid constant pestering by political thugs and relatives seeking for financial assistance now resorts to visiting their families in Abuja and only come to Minna to either attend the equally irregular State Executive Council meetings or any other important events”. The Commissioners are said to be taking advantage of the frequent absent of the Governor from the state to go into hiding and to distance themselves from people they see as ‘liabilities’, whenever he (Governor) is out of the state or on oversea trips. “Since the Governor hardly stays in Minna, the Commissioners and other political appointees also use the opportunities to also do their own monkey movements. Some of them hardly stay in their houses, they go into hiding from their people and that is how they make government far from the people, especially with the security challenges in the state”. The situation is further compounded by the attitudes of those at the Local Government Areas. “Most of the Local Government Chairmen are not helping matters. Ever since they won the case against the Governor in court over their tenure extension they have all gone underground and now govern from Minna, the state capital or on proxy”. Unfortunately, “Most of the Local Government Chairmen cannot be reached even on phone, they administer by maintaining constant contact with only their Treasurers and Council Secretaries and using excuse of insecurity for refusing to go to their offices”. Only few of the Chairmen, the source further reveal appear near the Council Secretariats at month ends to sign and counter-sign vouchers and cheques, adding that, “All official files and documents are being virtually treated from their hideouts in Minna, if there are anything to do the staff already know where to take such important documents that needed their signatures”.