ENUGU – The Senator representing Enugu East Senatorial District in the National Assembly and former Governor of Enugu State, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani has described Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as a destiny helper who God uses to write a destiny. Senator Nnamani also described Gov. Ugwuanyi as “a man of greater peace, a man of empathy, a man of sympathy, a builder, a game-changer, a transformer and a man that can stand as a mountain of Zion, who God can use to divide the red sea”, adding that in Gov. Ugwuanyi “I saw a man who can help sufferer not to suffer anymore”. The former Governor, who spoke during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign rally in Udenu Local Government Area, the county home of Gov. Ugwuanyi, added that the governor is “a good man, consensus leader, Mr. Project, man of the people and father to all”. 2023 Presidency: Arewa Group Urges Ugwuanyi To Contest Enugu 2023: Ugwuanyi Will Determine His Successor –… Senator Nnamani reaffirmed his endorsement of Gov. Ugwuanyi as the leader of the state and thanked “Udenu community for giving us such a human being”. The former Governor who attended to the colourful and well-attended rally in a PDP uniform bearing the photograph of Gov. Ugwuanyi as a mark of respect and loyalty said: “You know that since creation, I have never worn this type of dress. Since I grew up I have never worn this type of dress. This is the first time, to submit to a greater person. I thank Udenu for giving us Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi”. Other speakers at the rally, such as the member representing Igbo-Eze North/Udenu Federal Constituency, Hon. Simon Atigwe, the leader of the Enugu State House of Assembly and member representing Udenu Constituency, Rt. Hon. Ikechukwu Ezeugwu, the Chairman of Udenu LGA and State Chairman of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Hon. Solomon Onah, members of the State Executive Council (EXCO) from Udenu LGA, and the Deputy State Chairman of the PDP,  Hon. Innocent Ezeoha expressed their profound gratitude to Gov. Ugwuanyi for doing them proud through his exemplary leadership qualities and development strides in the state, especially in the rural areas. They reassured Gov. Ugwuanyi that the people of Udenu LGA are solidly behind him and will continue to give him the deserved support and solidarity to succeed in office.