Former National Chairman, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and newly installed Tafidah of Ilorin, Ahaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, has faulted the stance by former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, over zoning of the Presidency where he claimed that such arrangement by po­litical parties is not enshrined in the Nigerian Constitution. Picking holes in the for­mer VP’s argument, the new ‘Tafidan Ilorin’ pointed out that zoning is well enshrined in the PDP Constitution where Atiku belongs. He also explained that the Nigerian Constitution allows each party to run its affairs in manners that carry all mem­bers along. FCT Council Poll: Abuja Indigenes Commend INEC, Minister For… VSF Launches Food Distribution To Victims Of Terrorism In Yobe Baraje made this call on Tuesday evening to journal­ists in Ilorin at his GRA Resi­dence as part of a rapproche­ment with newsmen ahead of this Friday’s coronation as the new Tafidah. “His Excellency, our lead­er, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was saying the right thing but he has forgotten that the constitution of PDP has been amended, and I believe some of us will remind him that it’s not in the constitution of PDP before a certain number of years back. But it is now clearly stated in the PDP Con­stitution that zoning should be respected and there is a ca­veat in the constitution which says that zoning should be re­spected for the purpose of giv­ing sense of belonging to all members of the party and for all inclusiveness except and only when a resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) decides otherwise. “It is stated in the consti­tution black and white. It was reviewed in the constitution sometime around 2011. “Although, before then, it was an oral tradition of PDP and it was even as good as be­ing written. “I met it like that when I took over as party’s National Secretary in 2008. POLL “Even when it was an oral tradition of the party, it was highly respected. “It was formally included in our party’s constitution in 2011 when we were review­ing the party’s constitution before I left in 2011,” he said. The former PDP chairman also shared his views on the zoning controversies and ad­mitted that the North-Central is also in position to produce the next president of the Country having not been privileged to do so before.