ENUGU – Ohanaeze Ndigbo has enjoined Igbo women to desist from conducts capable of placing them in a bad light. The President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor stated this while reacting to the online viral video of Igbo women allegedly by a group named Umunwanyi Ozo Prestigious Chieftaincy Association, UK and Ireland that portrayed the women as having been inducted into the prestigious Ozowalu title which is an exclusive reserve for Igbo men. In a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on Saturday by the National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze, Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia, said “Ohanaeze strictly adopts the position expressed by Nzuko Ozo Ndi Igbo in Nigeria “that throughout Igbo land, Ozo title taking is an exclusive preserve for men. Omicron: Onuesoke Hails FG For Placing UK, Canada, Saudi –Arabia… Omicron: UK, Canada’s Ban Of Visitors From Nigeria Unfair,… “WOMEN DO NOT AND CANNOT TAKE OZO TITLE”. The communique signed by Professor Ike Oluka and Prince Ikenna Onyesoh, the Regent of Nri Ancient Kingdom asserts that “it is reckless and irresponsible for a group of Igbo Women within or outside the shores of Nigeria to claim to be Ozo titleholders and also claim to have formed an association called “Umunwanyi Ozo Prestigious Association of United Kingdom and Ireland. “The Ohanaeze connection to the viral video was also investigated and the leaderships of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in the UK and Ireland have already dissociated themselves from the despicable melodrama. “For emphasis, Ohanaeze Ndigbo is very proud of several Igbo women of global renown who have displayed unassailable intellect, administrative competence and panache in their chosen fields of endeavor. These Igbo women are pointing to a direction that is worthy and commendable but should desist from any act capable of placing them on bad light Ohanaeze assured to investigate the circumstances that led to the Ozo title “Ohanaeze needed to investigate the circumstances surrounding such a bizarre development. “To this end, Ohanaeze played host to a delegation from the United Kingdom, specifically on the issue of Ozo title by Igbo women. POLL “Efforts were also made to reach some of the spiritual leaders of Igbo Land. Above all, it t is also necessary to take into consideration the views of the various organs of Ohanaeze Ndigbo before our final position. The National Executive Committee (NEC) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, led by Ambassador Professor George Obiozor, sat on Wednesday, February 2, 2022, and stated that There are some women who in their Igbo nostalgia joined the Umunwanyi Ozo Prestigious Chieftaincy Association, UK and Ireland without the full grasp of the full implications of their misdemeanor. “It was discovered that the conscientious and virtuous among them have already withdrawn from the association and pleaded for understanding,” he said According to him, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo draws a distinction between the Ozo title and Chieftaincy title in Igbo Land; whereas a chieftaincy title can be bestowed on anybody by a traditional ruler in appreciation for one’s contribution to the society, the initiation into the Ozo institution must be in a person’s ancestral home after several background checks culminating in cultural and puritanical processes. On the other hand, the sacred dimension of the Ozo title places it at the highest pedestal among other titles in Igbo Land. “Ohanaeze views the Igbo egalitarianism and republicanism as positive attributes that stimulate and inspire creativity and entrepreneurship but cautions that a distasteful public demeanor attracts opprobrium, condemnations, disdain and most importantly, a shame to the relatives of such deviants”, he said