ABAKALIKI – A Governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Ebonyi State, Dr. Nnana Elias Igwe, said the achievements of Governor David Umahi’s administration had put him above other presidential aspirants ahead of Nigeria’s 2023 general elections. Mr Igwe noted that Governor Umahi had made notable impacts, especially in the area of infrastructure, human capital development, among others in Ebonyi State,that had already placed him as the best choice for the position of the President of the country after President Muhammadu Buhari. The United Kingdom based Medical Consultant who stated this in Abakaliki, during a Solidarity Rally he organized in collaboration with the Students’ Union Government, SUG, of Ebonyi State University, (EBSU) to support good governance, said Ebonyi had witnessed unprecedented transformation under the present administration. PDP Victory In FCT Council Polls, Good Omen -Ayu 2023: Admit Shortcomings, Shun Propaganda In Campaign –… On his aspiration to takeover from Umahi, Mr Igwe pledged that his administration would while consolidating on the achievements of the current administration, focus more on industrialization of Ebonyi State. According to him, the initiative would pave way for massive creation of jobs and advancement of the economic development of the State. “Youths of the State would be given priority attention, in order to redirect their minds away from crimes and unwholesome practices and give them the opportunity to become self reliant and self sufficient. “If I should be given the opportunity, we shall build on the legacies of the current administration, by focusing more on industrialization, the agricultural sector and the Health sector decor.” He added that his administration would promote peace and the unity of Ebonyi people by strengthening the traditional institutions, local and State security architecture and promote the language and culture of peace across every nooks and crannies of the State. POLL He further pointed out that the essence of the rally was to project and propagate the impact of the good governance agenda of the present administration in the State. “The rally is in collaboration with the Students Union Government of Ebonyi State University, Abakaliki. The aim is to enhance, promote and develop more of the good governance tendencies that our dear Governor, Engr. David Nweze Umahi has been propagating. “We see that he has been doing wonderfully well and there’s every need for us to let people know more of those things he has been doing and to let people know that we truly, truly support him. “And that’s why we believe that the best avenue to do that is to use the youths and the best youths at this stage are the students who have been at the front front for the struggle of his administration. “Our dear Governor has been at the fore front to ensuring that there’s massive infrastructural development in Ebonyi State. He has been doing wonderfully well, both infrastructurally, socially, economically and otherwise,” he concluded.