BUREAU CHIEF BENIN  – Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc has been attacked by gunmen allegedly wielding AK-47 rifles, killing one of the workers, in­juring many others and setting ablaze three escalators and 20 hectares of rubber plantation in the process. The management of the company has suspended oper­ations as a result of the attack which was described as a “ter­rorist attack.” It was reliably gathered that the recent attack on the compa­ny’s personnel and its facilities may not be unconnected with the determination of the Edo State government to put an end to illegal logging by some per­sons who now decided to turn the heat on Okomu Oil Palm Company. Jealous Lover Kills Girlfriend For Flirting With Customer In… Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC Addressing newsmen at the company’s office, the compa­ny’s Communications Officer, Mr Fidelis Oliseh who spoke on behalf of the Managing Di­rector, Dr. Graham Hefer said the gunmen numbering six, stormed the plantation with AK-47 rifles and shot at one of their workers at close range and he died in the spot. “For now, we are forced to shut down our operations to save lives from possible repri­sal. We are already working with security agencies. For now, the army has taken over the security of the planta­tion.” According to Olise, who spoke at the company head­quarters in Ovia South-West Local Government Area of Edo State, “the company will remain closed until the securi­ty situation improves. “The Tuesday invasion of the company that led to the death of an employee, setting ablaze three escalators and 20 hectares of the rubber planta­tion is a terrorist attack. “After the gunmen number­ing about six had killed an un­armed excavator operator, they threw his body into the trench before setting alight three of the company’s excavators. POLL “We believe these gunmen are terrorists fighting a polit­ical war, these are not herds­men but terrorists who came into the plantation through the waterway and carried out a well-coordinated attack, wield­ing AK 47. “These terrorists were real professionals with the way and manner they operated, ambushing our workers with no resistance. “We believe that this attack is politically motivated to cre­ate fears in our people who are peaceful and loyal subjects of the state government and the Benin Kingdom. “This terrorist attack is not good for business, it’s not good for Edo people and obviously not good for the Nigerian envi­ronment and its economy. “It will cost the company about 5,000 dollars to replant a hectare, meaning that we will require about 100,000 dollars (N50 million) to replant the en­tire 20 hectares and bring it up to its present years of maturity over the next seven years.”