LAGOS  – The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has called on the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to desist from involving itself in the admission processes and regulation of academics for universities in the country. The National President of ASUU, Professor Emmanuel Osodeke, made the call at the end of its two-day meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the union held at the Aderinokun Auditorium, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka. Osodeke said the meddlesomeness that JAMB Registrar, Professor Ishaq Oloyede, has arrogated to himself formed part of the opposition to JAMB when he was the Vice-Chancellor at the University of Ilorin some years back. Universities Urge AU, EU To Support Clusters Of Excellence Teach For Nigeria Commits To Growing 20,000 Leaders,… He described JAMB’s usurpation of the responsibilities of the Senate of universities as an encroachment into the university autonomy. “The autonomy of universities is under increasing threat by the meddlesome activities of the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) in admission processes and regulation of academic activities in the Nigerian University System. “JAMB was created as an Act of the National Assembly in 1978 and responsible for the conduct of examinations for admission into a tertiary institution in Nigeria, the appointment of examiners and collection/dissemination of information on all matters relating to entrance examinations. “It is the prerogative and responsibility of each university Senate to superintend over all academic matters in the university. These include setting the admission requirements and approval of university undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. “JAMB has no powers to decide qualification for admission and does not have powers to give admission or delist programmes of universities. At best, JAMB is an examination body and clearing house for admission into tertiary institutions. Giving admission to candidates is the duty of the Senate, while regulation or accreditation of programmers is the prerogative of NUC. POLL “However, it is a matter of regret that JAMB is operating outside its jurisdiction of collecting and disseminating information on matters relating to admissions from respective institutions based on senate recommendations. ASUU called on JAMB to desist from overstepping its original mandate and allow universities to decide on admission policies and processes.