As Others Extols Minister’s Virtue PORT HARCOURT – The decision of the Daura Emirate Council, DEC, to honour the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, is to strengthen the old-time cordial relationship that existed between the people of southern Nigeria and their northern counterparts. This was the verdict of the first Military Governor of Rivers State and Amanyanabo of Twon-Brass of Bayelsa State, King Alfred Papapreye Diete-Spiff and other stakeholders from Rivers state. I Did Not Turban Ameachi For Monetary Gains –  Emir Of… 2023: Youths Unveil Rescue Nigeria Mission For Yahaya Bello In… Diete-Spiff expressed the hope that the turbaning of the Minister of Transportation, as Dan Amanar Daura, (trusted son of Daura) will further strengthen the relationship between the Northern and Southern parts of the country. The Monarch disclosed this while speaking on the sidelines of the turbaning of Amaechi, by the Daura Emirates Council in Katsina State on Saturday. The Amanyanabo who is also the Chairman of Bayelsa State Council of Traditional Rulers was accompanied to the occasion by other prominent traditional rulers from the South-South and South-East geo-political zones of the country. “It is a great thing that our son is being honoured and turbaned. We thank the Emir of Daura and the people of Daura for picking him and my son, Bashiru Danu, who is also a Port Harcourt boy. “We are here to give our support. My team consists of Eze of Port Harcourt and Eze Nkpolu and also a senator from Ikwerre land. We are here to give our full support. POLL “It is a handshake across the Delta and we are very happy about it that one of our own is being recognized as a member of the Daura Emirates Council. “This occasion is to cement the relationship that has existed between the North and the South before now. That is the way we see it. It is a handshake across the Delta.” Also speaking, the chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Prince Tonye Princewill, assured that the people of Daura Emirate will not regret honouring Amaechi. Princewill stated that the people of Rivers State will continue to build bridges of national unity in order to make the nation proud. “For the sake of emphasis and summary, he (Amaechi) is being given the title of Dan Amanar of Daura, which basically is saying the trusted son of Daura. Uzor Kalu To Other Presidential  Aspirants: No Threat, Meet Me… Former Governor Of Ekiti, Segun Oni Dumps PDP “The significance of this is quite mind-boggling because like one Daura son told me that anybody who is not grateful to Amaechi, such a person is not polite. The man had always done a lot not just to this area but for the country. “We are grateful to the Daura Emirate for this great honour, but one thing is clear, it is not something they are going to regret. “We are going to work tirelessly to ensure that we continue to build these bridges and make sure that we make the nation proud.” On his part, the former Nigerian Ambassador to The Netherlands, Ambassador Oji Ngofa and former Acting National Chairman of the APC, Chief Victor Giadom, have described the celebrant, Rotimi Amaechi as a detribalized Nigerian. The duo spoke at the palace of Emir of Daura, Katsina State, the venue of the turbaning ceremony. “This is indeed significant in the sense that the Amaechi we know in Rivers State on the account of his superlative performance as governor of Rivers State and Speaker of all Speakers, I feel elated that the Amaechi we know is getting recognition in Nigeria,” said Ngofa. “As Minister of Transportation, he had practically transformed the rail sector and the maritime sector under his ministry. The Amaechi we know, Nigerians are beginning to know who he is as a hardworking, transformative leader who is detribalised and committed to the good of everybody. He is a transparent, honest and committed person”. In his view, Victor Giadom stated that the turbaning of Amaechi by the Daura Emirates Council was very important to Nigerians as it will promote the diversity and unity of the country.