BAUCHI -The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has urged corps members to set up small scale businesses in line with the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) training they acquired in the last year. Bala Mohammed stated this on Thursday during the passing out parade of the 460 2021 Batch A stream 1 Corps members in the state. Represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Aminu Gamawa, Mohammed reminded the corps members that white-collar jobs were no longer readily available, hence, the government in realization of this fact, had prepared them for the challenges associated with the development. NYSC Orders 33 Corps Members To Repeat Service Year Over… Passing Out Parade: NYSC Charges Corps Members To Remain Worthy… He urged them to take advantage of government empowerment programmes by assessing loans from the appropriate agencies of government to set up their businesses. “By doing this, you will occupy your rightful places as catalysts for quick actualization of the self-reliance drive of the government, particularly, in the socio-economic, technological, food security and other strategic aspects of our national life,” Mohammed said. According to him, the Bauchi state government would continue to provide it’s unflinching support needed to create the enabling environment for the managers of the scheme and corps members to discharge their duties effectively. Governor Mohammed lauded the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC)’s rural medical outreach intervention in the state, saying that the outreach has improved the health of rural dwellers, particularly in hard to reach areas where medical services are needed. “The entire citizens of Bauchi State whom you have been serving in the last one year appreciate and applaud your laudable contributions. POLL “Worthy of note is the catalogue of achievements you have recorded in the areas of community development service, you are leaving behind footprints that will remain indelible in the annals of history. The state equally appreciates your laudable contributions in other areas, particularly the health sector. “The NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers Programme has touched the lives of our rural communities. I urge the managers of the scheme to sustain the programme while assuring you of our total support,” The governor said Earlier, the Director General of NYSC, Alhaji Shuaibu Ibrahim who was represented by the state Coordinator, Alhaji Namadi Abubakar, said the corps members did not only render their primary assignment creditably but also embarked on numerous Community Development Programmes. These, he said ranged from construction works; infrastructural improvement to health services extension as well as aggressive awareness campaigns on Sustainable Development Goals, among others.