Bukayo Saka has thanked Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang for helping both him and the club during the Gabon international’s four-year spell at the Emirates Stadium. Aubameyang left the club by mutual consent on deadline day before joining La Liga giants Barcelona until the summer of 2025, although the deal does have a break clause that can be agreed upon after 18 months. The move came after the forward was stripped of the club’s captaincy duties following a disciplinary breach in December and was subsequently exiled from the rest of the first-team squad, training alone at the club’s London Colney training base. Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (04/02/22) IMF Approves $1bn Loan Tranche For Pakistan Over the festive period that the Gunners were open to offers for the veteran centre-forward before Saudi side Al-Nassr tried to tempt him away from the Emirates Stadium, but the player rejected their approaches because he wanted to stay in Europe. He’s now also revealed that the predominant reason for his exit was because he had a disagreement with current boss Mikel Arteta. Speaking in a live press conference for new side Barcelona, Aubameyang said: “My last few months at Arsenal were complicated, that’s football sometimes. “For my part, I never wanted to do anything wrong. My problem was only with Arteta. I can’t say much more, I wasn’t happy. It was just him and he made that decision. He wasn’t happy, I can’t tell you more. He wasn’t very happy, I was very calm. “Those were difficult months. This is football. I’ve never wanted to do anything wrong, it’s the past and I want to think about the present.” POLL But even though Aubameyang and Arteta had a notable fallout, the 32-year-old was still loved by his teammates, as evidenced by Saka’s latest message on social media. As seen on Twitter, the Englishman wrote: “Thank you for everything @Auba “Legend.” The message was accompanied with an image of the pair celebrating the community shield together, as well as photos of them looking cheerful after the Gunners found the net in respective matches. There was also an image of Aubameyang holding the FA Cup trophy – the major honour he lifted as Arsenal captain.