Old transmission substations in the power industry will be digitised, the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), has said its network. Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, TCN’s spokesperson, explained that the digitisation project is aimed at improving the automation system of old transmission substations and their connectivity with the proposed TCN’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. According to her, the scope of work for the project included the supply, installation, configuration, testing, and commissioning of Substation Automation Systems (SAS), as well as the control and relay protection systems in the substations. Electricity: FG Will Cater For Underserved Areas KEDCO Cautions New Tenants On Outstanding Bills She added: “This project would further contribute to grid management and reduce system losses. The digitization project is funded by the World Bank under NETAP (Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project), managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of TCN. “In Port-Harcourt Region alone, five substations would be digitalised, and this includes Afam 1, Ahoada, Yenegoa, Owerri, and Uyo substations,” she said. She stated that the team from TCN-PMU and the General Manager (Transmission), Port-Harcourt Region, formally handed the duly executed document on the digitization project to the contractor at the Afam 1 substation. Mbah stated that the handing over marked the beginning of the digitisation process for TCNs old substations. Besides, the Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, has taken delivery of fifteen (15) number brand new power transformers from the Apapa port, Lagos, earlier last week. POLL The transformers comprise ten (10) number 60MVA 132/33kV and five (5) number 150MVA 330/132kV capacity transformers delivered to TCN Central Store in Ojo, Lagos State, for onward delivery to various TCN project sites nationwide. Engr.Dr. Sule Abdulaziz, Managing Director of TCN, said the contract for the supply of the transformers under the Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project (NETAP), was funded by the World Bank. He said TCN decides on the project site the transformers will be installed. According to him, the 10 number 60MVA 132/33kV power transformers and the five (5) 150MVA 330/132kV transformers will add 637MW and 850MW respectively to the transmission network, consequently increasing the total capacity of the transmission system by 1487MW while ensuring N-1 reliability criteria in the substations, which is strategic in enhancing grid stability. He noted that earlier in August last year, the World Bank also funded transformer supply contracts which brought in ten (10) number 60MVA132/33kV transformers and twenty-five (25 number) earthing transformers. Out of the ten (10) 60MVA transformers, five (5) were installed in Karu and Gombe Substations, two (2No) are currently being installed in Kano, and one in Lagos State. REA To Receive N4.230bn Worth Of Electrification Material… FG Promises To Implement Transmission Projects In Lagos, Ogun “This is the first time in the history of TCN that it took delivery of large numbers of transformers within a short period. These are milestone achievements for TCN, as it strives to implement its short-term development plan under the Nigerian Electricity Grid Maintenance, Expansion, and Rehabilitation Programme (NEGMERP). The World Bank-sponsored NETAP project is only one of the TCN donor-funded projects aimed at expanding the transmission grid, while also prioritising maintenance of the existing transmission infrastructures” he said.