LAGOS – The All Referendum People Movement (ARP-M), a coalition of New Reformation Unity Forum (NRUF) and Tinubu Non-Negotiable (TNN) has indicated a plan to mobilise 30 million Nigerians to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023 presidential election. The movement said that there would be no victory for any political party in 2023 which fails to present Tinubu as a presidential candidate, urging all the political parties to adopt the APC leader as a consensus candidate. Honourable Kunle Okunola, the convener, national and global coordinator of the movement, stated during the Southern Conference held in Lagos yesterday that it wanted the world to know that without Tinubu as a consensus candidate, no political party would have victory in 2023. “Our aim is to present Tinubu as a consensus candidate. We remember the case of General Sani Abacha, where all the political parties adopted him as their presidential candidate. Tinubu deserves to be a consensus candidate, the reason we are mobilizing 30 million Nigerians across political parties,’ Okunola said. 2023: Northern Group Seeks Christian APC President Or Vice 2023: PDP Will Return To Power, Ayu Assures According to him the essence of the Southern Conference is to achieve unity, cohesion, using political solutions to solve Nigeria’s problem. “We are the pioneer movement which called Bola Tinubu to come and rescue Nigeria and today he has made it known he wants to contest for the presidency. Our movement has achieved 75 percent of our goal and our next line of action is to sensitize Nigerians towards the need to vote across political parties, religions and tribes. “Our aim is to showcase members of our movement across the 36 states of the federation and Abuja. We are in 46 countries globally, and we have African, European and American districts. These districts are to produce candidates for 2023 and we have gotten our presidential candidate and we have a duty to sensitize Nigerians who are going to vote for him across political parties,” he said. The APC chieftain maintained that Tinubu must be a consensus candidate, stressing that the movement would not limit itself to any political party because there is no difference between the political parties which is the reason people jump from one political party to another. POLL “We hope to produce 109 senators, 360 House of Representatives members and over 400 House of assembly members. This is the only change that Nigeria needs to make progress,” he said. Okunola added, “Three years ago when we started this movement we posted our portal, nruf.org, without knowing that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will register Nigerians through its website. The traders, drivers, conductors, mechanics, market women do not know that there is a continuous registration exercise today; so it is our responsibility to move around the country working with the help of our members whose ages range from 18 to 45 years. “Once you are registered with our movement, the next stage is to register you with INEC. In the Month of June, we intend to put all those members into one ambassador, 50 persons per head whose duty would be to meet with Nigerians and enlighten them on what to do in 2023. We are going to raise funds to sponsor our members using the movement as collateral and the system is what we call, ‘Not Too Poor To Rule’ because ‘Not Too Young To Rule’ was a distraction in 2019. The hindrance for those Nigerians who mean well for this country is finance and that is why there won’t be progress unless Nigerians are sponsored into office,” Okunola said. A gubernatorial candidate on the platform of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), and a former commissioner in Ekiti State, Debo Ajayi, who is also a member of the movement, said, “One of the issues that we have in this country is that electioneering process is very expensive and the good people never really have a chance. I resonate very well with the movement because it is trying to support the so-called underdogs. I used to be very skeptical with godfathers, you will always need help but you must also be careful with the kind of help you get. I resonate very well with TNN when I came in contact with Hon Kunle Okunola, who through the movement is ready to help the underdogs politically,” Ajayi said.