Tony Ezimakor; Temidayo Akinsuyi The confused Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), last night, buckled under pressure from stakeholders and announced that its national convention will now hold on March 26. This is coming after it had earlier on Monday written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), cancelling its national convention earlier fixed for February 26, and fixed March 26 as date for its zonal congresses and urged INEC to monitor the congresses. 2023: S-South APC Lawmakers Endorse Yahaya Bello For President Northern Forum Rescinds Call For Sack Of NNPC Management However, the CECPC has reeled out a timetable that spans a period of one month, starting from February 24 to March 26 for the national convention. A leaked communication to INEC had fixed the zonal congresses of the party for March 26 and expressly declared that it superseded the earlier one which fixed the convention for February 26. That communication was also silent on the on national convention. In a letter notifying the commission of the conduct of the zonal congresses, and signed by Mai Mala Buni, Chairman, and John James Akpanudedehe, Secretary, of the party’s CECPC, APC said the notice supersedes earlier notice for the national convention with reference APC/ NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14. According to Akpanudedehe, the alteration is predicated on the evaluation of the APC constitution. The notice read: “In furtherance to Article 85 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and in compliance with section 126 of our party’s constitution, we hereby write to notify the commission that our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has scheduled to hold its zonal congresses on Saturday, March 26, 2022. “Kindly arrange for your officials to monitor the exercise accordingly, while hoping to receive your cooperation, please accept the assurances of our highest esteem”. POLL But rising from its meeting on Monday, the CECPC announced that the schedule of activities leading to the APC national convention would commence from February 24 and terminate on March 26. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Secretary of the CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said the committee has agreed on a harmonised timeline leading to the convention. He said, “After deliberation and agreement with the CECPC, we have agreed and approved that the activities of the national convention commence from the 24th of March and terminates on the 26th of March. “The convention activities commence on the 24th of February and will terminate at the Eagles Square on the 26th of March, in between the convention, we have agreed to have zonal congresses”. Sales of forms for the national convention is now scheduled to hold March 9 to 11, while the screening of aspirants comes March 15-17. Ebonyi Assembly Declares Dep. Speaker’s Seat Vacant, Elects… Why Buhari Is Delaying Assent To Electoral Bill — Presidency Inauguration of successful National Working Committee members is fixed for March 31. Similarly, the committee has also released timetable for the zonal congresses to hold in all the six geopolitical zones on March 12. Sales of forms for the zonal congresses kicks off on February 28 while the screening of aspirants comes up on March 5. For national convention, the timetable is as follows: on Monday, February 28, 2022 will be date for publication of national convention sub-committees. Sales of forms will be on Wednesday, March 9 to Friday, March 11, 2022. Screening will take place on Tuesday, March 15 to Thursday, March 17, 2022. Screening appeal takes place on Saturday, March 19, 2022. Monday, March 21, 2022 will be adoption of appeal report. Accreditation will take place on Thursday, March 24 to Friday, March 25, 2022. The national convention holds Saturday, March 26, 2022, while convention appeal takes place on Tuesday, March 29, 2022. Adoption of appeal report will hold on Wednesday, March 30, 2022, while inauguration of National Working Committee members will hold on Thursday, March 31, 2022. Schedule of activities for the zonal congresses across the six geopolitical zones are as follows: Publication of zonal committees will be on Thursday, February 24, 2022; meeting of zonal stakeholders takes place on Saturday, February 26, 2022; sales of forms for zonal positions starts from Monday, February 28 to Thursday, March 3, 2022; screening of zonal aspirants will be on Saturday, March 5, 2022; screening appeal takes place on Sunday, March 6, 2022; adoption of screening report, Tuesday, March 8, 2022; zonal congresses hold on Saturday, March 12, 2022; zonal congresses appeal, Monday, March 14, 2022, while adoption of appeal report holds on Wednesday, March 16, 2022. Prior to this, the fate of the February 26 national convention was mired in controversy and confusion. Daily Independent had reported exclusively on Friday, February 18, that the convention would be postponed by two weeks. The paper equally reported that President Muhammadu Buhari had granted the request made by the CECPC to shift the date of the national convention. Also last December, the paper scooped that a well concealed agenda of key leaders of the caretaker committee to succeed themselves would jeopardise any call for national convention and that CECPC was staying out the tenure of the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC National Working Committee (NWC) which elapses in June. With the zonal congresses planned for March 26, it should expected that the whole of April would be spent by the CECPC entertaining petitions and treating possible appeals arising from the zonal congresses. That will leave the caretaker committee just a month grace to plan for the national convention in June. Security Beefed At APC Secretariat Meanwhile, a detachment of heavily armed police operatives on Monday afternoon took over the surroundings of the APC national secretariat in Abuja. This came moments after a letter written by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC to INEC, announcing the indefinite postponement of its national convention was leaked. Heavily armed police operatives are currently positioned within the secretariat along Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, Abuja, following a security report that certain persons had been mobilised to stage demonstrations against the caretaker committee. However, an official at the party secretariat told Daily Independent that while all is calm at the secretariat, the security beefed up was to forestall possible attacks. “There have always been adequate security presence here. But I noticed there have been additional security forces around the vicinity since 12p.m. Everything is calm as at now”. The party later reversed itself and issued another guidelines stating that the convention will now hold on March 26. A credible source said there was lot of backlash following the leakage of the first letter. He said the committee had to retrace its steps and accommodate the national convention at its Monday meeting as a last resort to placate members. “The caretaker committee ran into a problem when the criticism greeted the leaked letter to INEC informing the electoral body of the zonal congresses in place of the national convention. “Acting on security and intelligence reports on party members’ reactions to zonal congresses, the meeting had to repackage the schedule of activities to accommodate the convention. “The secretary was directed to send a new letter reflecting the new dates arrived at today’s caretaker committee meeting to INEC by tomorrow unfailingly”.