Erling Haaland has held a secret meeting with Zinedine Zidane as the Borussia Dortmund star becomes central to transfer plans around Europe. Manchester United, Manchester City and Real Madrid are in the race to sign the Norwegian. United might have received a boost in their attempts to sign Haaland this summer after Zidane secretly met with the striker. The Borussia Dortmund ace is one of the top targets at Old Trafford along with West Ham’s Declan Rice. Three Haaland Alternatives Manchester United Could Pursue In … Man-United Out Of Haaland Running As Real Madrid Emerge As… However, they face a battle to sign the Norway international, who reportedly has a £68million release clause that comes into action in the transfer window. United’s local rivals City have been linked as Pep Guardiola looks to sign a striker after missing out on Harry Kane last summer. But Real Madrid are leading the chase for Haaland and are also in the process of trying to sign Kylian Mbappe from Paris Saint-Germain on a free transfer. And both Real and United might have received a huge boost – though Zidane might have swayed the 21-year-old the Bernabeu’s way. That is because the French legend held a secret meeting with Haaland on behalf of Adidas, along with his childhood hero Michu, report Marca. POLL The Dortmund star’s contract with Nike finished in January and March report that the German sportswear company met with him on February 7. In attendance was Zidane and Michu while penning the Leeds-born ace to their brand would be a major coup for them. United are heavily involved with Adidas after they agreed a £750m shirt deal over 10 years – a record-breaking announcement at the time. But the Red Devils might feel aggrieved at the fact that Real also have their kits supplied by the sports giants. Zidane’s involvement, as a Madrid legend, might have convinced Haaland that his future is best served in Spain as well. Domenech Urges Zidane To Get Out Of Comfort Zone And Land Man… Madrid Identify Zidane Replacement The striker has the pick of clubs across Europe as the world awaits his decision while his agent Mino Raiola will no doubt be heavily involved.