LAGOS – The Federal Government of Nigeria has announced the arrangement of a special flight operation for the evacuation of Nigerians caught in the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama in an exclusive interview with NTA said the Nigerian embassy in Kyiv has been contacted to arrange those wishing to return home from other areas including Donestk and Luhensk. The minister assured Nigerians that the ministry is following the event since the beginning and promised to do everything for the safety of Nigerians in Ukraine, particularly students. FG Links Fuel Scarcity To Inspection Failure FG Signs €9.3m Agreement With Eight Indigenous Solar Developers… The Russians have started attacking military installations in Ukraine amidst worries and accusations by the western world of imminent invasion which Vladimir Putin repeatedly denied In another development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assured Nigerians of the safety of its citizens in Ukraine. The Ministry in a statement signed by Francisca K. Omayuli, spokesperson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on Thursday, disclosed that measures are being undertaken to keep Nigerians safe and facilitate the evacuation of those who wish to leave. The statement with reference No: MEA/PR/2022/05 read: “The Federal Government of Nigeria has received with surprise, reports of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia.“The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been reassured by the Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine of the safety of Nigerians in that country and measures being undertaken to keep them safe and facilitate the evacuation of those who wish to leave. “The Federal Government wishes to assure the families with loved ones in Ukraine that as soon as the airports in the country are opened, it would assist in facilitating the evacuation of Nigerians who are willing to leave.” POLL However, the release stated that the Nigerian Mission has confirmed that military action by theRussians has been confined to military installations.