ABUJA – A group under the auspices of the Guild of Civil Societies and Media Executives for Equity, Justice and Transparency in Nigeria (GOCMEJ ) has called on the House of Representatives to stop further debate on Nigerian Security and Civil Defence NSCDC  ( Repeal and Enactment Bill ) saying it is detrimental to nation’ security. The bill which was sponsored by a member Hon. Shina Peller, representing Iseyin/Itsiwaju/Kajola/Iwajora Federal Constituency of Oyo State has generated reactions from Nigerians. The group disclosed this in a statement signed by the President of the organisation, James Okoronkwo on Tuesday in Abuja. Senate Passes Nigerian Airspace Management Agency Bill NSCDC Boss Disbands Anti Vandal Unit Of Rivers State Command The statement added that the bill does not trigger constructive debates, conversations and substantive reforms in the best interest of the nation and should be rejected by the House adding that it is unnecessary, retrogressive and premature. The statement read in part ”  The lawmaker proposed the bill to the House via the National Security and Civil Defence Corps (Repeal and Transition) Bill 2022, which has passed first reading on the floor of the House and has created a lot of hues and cries from Nigerians and as such demands an outright condemnation to put a stop to it. ” As champions of transparency, good governance and accountability in public service, we condemn in strong terms and in its entirety this proposed bill as it does not trigger constructive debates, conversations and substantive reforms in the best interest of the nation and, as such, should be rejected and jettisoned by the House as it is unnecessary, retrogressive and premature. ” We are, therefore, constrained to issue the following statements, as the bill in question touches the sensitivity, feelings, aspirations and crux of the Nigerian people and the security architecture: ” The core mandate of the NSCDC includes the provision of constant and effective protection of critical national assets, pipelines, interfacing and regulating private security guard companies for local safety and intervening in the management of national and man-made disasters and so many others not mentioned here, as enshrined in the NSCDC (Amendment) Act 2007, Act No. 6, which in itself is very different from the constitutional provisions of the Nigeria Police Force and its mandate as also enshrined in the Constitution. “ POLL The group said rather than call for its scrapping or merger as the case may be, each security agency should be left to play their constitutionally assigned roles and complement each other where necessary as provided for in the Constitution of the Federal Republic. It noted that the role and mandate of the NSCDC is clear in securing critical national assets, regulating private security guard companies, pipeline surveillance, training and retraining of security companies. The group, therefore, called on the Federal Government to strengthen, equip and increase funding for capacity building and training of its men and officers of the corps instead of scrapping or merging it.