UYO – One of the governorship aspirants in the Akwa Ibom 2023 race, Sen Bassey Albert Akpan has called on security agencies to investigate the recent alleged attack and murder of his core supporters. Akpan who is Chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum Resources Upstream in a press statement made available to our correspondent in Uyo on Wednesday, lamented that he had lost two of his frontline supporters, while the third survived gunshots within the last couple of weeks. He has described the recent murder of one of his strongest allies and supporter, Chief Bassey Emah as “one killing too many”, insisting that the death of his men must not be glossed over nor swept under the carpet. 2023: Akwa Ibom Begins Peace Building Initiatives Akwa Ibom NTDs Coordinator Decries Endemic Nature Of River… “Without leaning on any conspiracy theory, I hereby charge the security agencies to, as a matter of urgency; do all within their powers to unravel the circumstances surrounding the needless murder of Emma B. The perpetrators of this heinous crime, no matter their status in the society, must be brought to account and soon too”, he declared. While acknowledging the unquantifiable contributions of the late Chief Emah to his gubernatorial ambition in Nsit Ubium where he held forth, the senator regretted that his murder will deprive his young family of a sustainable means of livelihood. He expressed dismay that Chief Emah was the third of his supporters who had been mindlessly, needlessly attacked and killed in recent times. According to the Senator, his two other supporters so far attacked were: Mr. Augustine Ekanem from Ibiono Ibom alias ‘Talk and laugh’, leader of the group, OBA IS THE BEST, who was brutally assassinated in a filling station in Uyo; and Mr. Idongesit Ezekiel Idiok popularly known as “Soundcraft” from Essien Udim who luckily escaped death but sustained injuries from gunshots. He however urged his supporters to remain calm and allow the security agencies to do their work. He also urged them to remain resolute and not be intimidated by any circumstance as power belongs to God and He gives it to whoever He pleases. POLL While praying the good Lord to grant the family of Chief Emah, his friends and allies as well as the campaign organization the fortitude to bear this great loss, he promised to stand by his family through this moment of grief and beyond.