. Convention Now March 26 ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) again last night buckled under pressure from stakeholders and announced a convention timetable that span one Month, starting from February 24th to March 26, 2022 with the National Convention. A leaked communication to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed the Zonal Congresses of the party for March 26 and expressly declared that it superseded the earlier one which fixed the convention on February 26. Save APC From Imminent Doom – APC Rebirth Urges Buhari Nigerians, APC Members Tired Of Convention Postponement –… That Communication was also silent on the on Convention. However rising from its meeting on Monday, the CECPC announced that the schedule of activities leading to the APC national convention would commence February 24 and terminate on 26 of March Addressing journalists after the meeting, the secretary of the CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe said the committee has agreed on a harmonized timeline leading to the Convention.He said” After deliberation and agreement with the CECPC, we have agreed and approved that the activities of the national convention commence from the 24th of March and terminate on the 26th of March. ” The convention activities commence on the 24th of February and it will terminate at Eagles Square on the 26th of March, in -between the convention, we have agreed to have zonal congresses” he said . Sales of forms for the National Convention is now scheduled to hold 9-11 th March while the screening of Aspirant comes 15-17 March. POLL The inauguration of successful NWC Members is fixed on March 31st. Similarly,the committee has also released the timetable for the Zonal Congresses to hold in all the six geopolitical zones on March.12th. Sales of forms for the Zonal Congresses kicks off on February 28 while the screening of Aspirants comes up on 5th March. The separate timetable are as follows. NATIONAL CONVENTION APC Provides Governance Opportunities For Youth – Banki APC: Aspirants Write Planning Committee, Want Convention… SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES FOR ZONAL CONGRESSES Schedule of Activities for the Zonal Congresses across the Six (6) Geo-political Zones as follows: