Julius B. Omodayo-Owotu­ga, the Deputy Chief Exec­utive of Geregu Power Plc and previously Group Ex­ecutive Director Finance & Risk Management of Forte Oil Plc (now Ardova Plc) has joined FBN Holdings board as a Non-Executive Director following the approval of his appointment by the Central Bank of Nigeria, according to the notification sent by the company secretary to the NGX. Omodayo-Owotuga (popu­larly known as JB) is a finance expert with tremendous expe­rience in Finance, Risk Man­agement, Treasury, Internal Controls, General Adminis­tration, Procurement, and Information Technology. While at Forte, he was a member of the Executive Management Team that re­structured a then moribund company into a vibrant in­dustry player. He equally led the capital restructuring, ac­quisitions, debt capital raise, maiden credit rating and divestment initiatives. Be­fore joining Forte Oil Plc, he was responsible for the Asset and Liabilities Management function at the Africa Finance Corporation. Bomb Terrorists Out Of Their Hideouts – Senate Urges FG Be Good Ambassadors Of Justice, Lagos Commissioner Urges New… He is a KPMG-trained finance professional and possesses extensive invest­ment experience spanning the financial services, power and oil and gas sectors with a proven track record of signif­icant achievements. His two decades’ work experience spans blue-chip companies such as KPMG, Standard Chartered Bank, Africa Finance Corporation (AFC), Forte Oil Plc, MBC In­ternational Bank (now First Bank of Nigeria Limited) and Geregu Power Plc. JB is an alumnus of Oxford University’s Said Business School, the Unit­ed Kingdom; IE Business School, Madrid, Spain and the University of Lagos, La­gos, Nigeria. He has a B.Sc. in Accounting and a Master’s in Business Administration (with distinction). He is a CFA Charter Holder, a Fel­low of The Institute of Char­tered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), The Chartered Insti­tute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) and The Institute of Credit Administration.