Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors have expressed concern over the unwillingness of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Bill. Urging President Buhari to immediately sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law, the governors pointed out that Mr. Presidentwaiting to run out the 30 days is yet another sign of his to give Nigeria a reformed Electoral framework. The governors said that if there are still misgivings on any aspect of the Bill, amendments may be introduced at a later stage. Buhari Salutes Gov. Matawalle At 60 Be Concerned About Your Successor, Stakeholders Urges Buhari In their communique shortly after their meeting in Beyelsa state on Monday, the governors expressed their displeasure on the issue of contaminated fuel supplied to Nigerians and urged the government to bring perpetrators to account. They also frowned at the duplicity, inconsistency, insincerity of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government on the fuel subsidy regime, which they said has been badly and corruptly administered. The governors said that the figures of consumption ascribed to Nigerians appear fictitious and bloated, calling for proper investigation to be conducted on this matter. In the communique read by the Vice Chairman of PDP Governors Forum and Abia state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, the governors congratulated PDP for winning 43 out of 62 Councillorship positions in the Abuja Area Council election results, just concluded. They noted that inspite of improvements in the conduct of elections, the Gwagwalada and Abaji Area Council results show that manipulations are still possible, urging the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to tighten all observed loopholes and further improve on the functioning of the BIVAS Machine for future elections. POLL Part of the communique read: “The Forum welcomed the Court decision on Police Trust Fund deductions from the Federation Account, a suit at the instance of Rivers State and urged the Federal Government to stop similar unconstitutional deductions from the Federation Account. “In the same vein, the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission should expedite action on the new Revenue Allocation formula in such a way as to increase allocation to States and Local Government. “The Forum once again deplored the way and manner the CBN is being run as an alternate government, indeed, a government within a Government. It is time to streamline its functions and processes to be constitutionally compliant. “The Forum once again decried the opaque nature of NNPC operations. They called for accountability and reconciliation of NNPC remittances into the federation account. “As the National Assembly winds down this current phase of the Constitution Review exercise, the Forum urged that they revisit the issue of devolution of more powers to the States and Local Governments. Group Flays Femi Adesina’s Comment On Buhari, NDDC Buhari Joins Religious Leaders Begging ASUU To Discard Strike “This opportunity to rejig the framework for policing and securing Nigeria should not be missed. To this end, the Forum would set up a Panel of Consultants to have a thorough look at the security architecture of Nigeria and make recommendations.” The governors, however, urged the National Assembly to transfer some items from the Exclusive Legislative List to Concurrent List. In attendance were: Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Gov. Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa) Gov. Udom Emmanuel (Akwa-Ibom), Gov. Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Gov. Sen. Douye Diri (Bayelsa), Gov. Samuel Ortom (Benue). Others are Governor Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Gov. Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Gov. Engr. Oluseyi Abiodun Makinde (Oyo) and Gov. Nyesom Wike (Rivers).