ABUJA – The House of Represen­tatives on Monday com­menced investigative ef­forts aimed at recovering about N1.2 trillion alleged­ly held by deposit money banks (DMBs) on behalf of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of government without re­mitting same into the con­solidated revenue account with the central bank. This was as the House also revealed that a total of 45 million bank accounts have been found not to be linked to Bank Verifica­tion Numbers, otherwise known as BVN, in different commercial banks in the country, funds that have now become trapped due to inability of the account holders to withdraw them. Declaring the investiga­tion open on Monday, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, expressed hope that the exercise would throw up positive outcome that can enhance govern­ment efforts at closing in­frastructure deficit in the country. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… NFF Dumps Paseiro, Retains Eguavoen As Super Eagles Interim… “We hope this assign­ment would improve our system in terms of value addition. This assignment is line with section 88, 86 of the Nigerian constitution among the powers of the National Assembly to con­duct investigative hearing either to improve on the loss or to expose corrup­tion or waste. “This I believe from the body of the motion that about N1.2 trillion not paid into consolidated revenue, so that we can improve the infrastructure deficit and other challenges in our na­tion. I believe it is import­ant, hoping and praying what was mentioned if it is true, it means then we have lot to do. First, to expose the corruption aspect of it. Second, to come out with interventions that would improve and mitigate the situation. “I charge my colleagues to do their work with the fear of God, diligent and commitment and above all with the fear of the Al­mighty. I pray God will give you the determination to carry out this important function,” he said. Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee investigating the status of unclaimed funds in commercial banks and possible infractions by the CBN, Hon. Unyime Idem (PDP, Akwa Ibom), stated that deposit money banks must assist the pan­el with information about unclaimed funds in their possession. “For commercial banks, this resolution stipulates that you submit document that would help us recov­er unclaimed in about 45 million accounts that are not linked to BVN. About 45 million accounts are what the House has been able to discover through the recent reports. Those accounts are not linked to BVN. So monies in those accounts, we want to know the positions, whether you have refunded the Federal Government or what hap­pened to the funds. You are going to give us documents to back these investiga­tions,” he demanded. POLL Director-General, Bud­get Office, Ben Akabueze, representing Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, noted that “from the open­ing remarks of the com­mittee chairman, it would appear that this is focused on unearthing the Feder­al Government’s balances that may still be hanging in any of the commercial banks. “I believe that over the past several years there have been circulars of government seeking to enforce this. Because oth­erwise when we received this invitation that talked about unclaimed funds in Nigeria commercial banks, basically my ini­tial reading of this is that it’s related to inactive ac­counts, dormant accounts, because the extant regula­tion guiding the manage­ment of these, issued by the CBN, on October 2015, provides guidelines for the management of inac­tive accounts, dormant accounts and unclaimed funds. “Those guidelines obli­gate any bank to have no­tified the Federal Govern­ment of the existence of any such funds belonging to it; if they had I’m sure that those funds will not be there. I hope that with­out prejudice to the work of this committee that the CBN will also do the job of enforcing its own guidelines. As the work of the committee progresses, whatever other specific in­formation required of us as a ministry we will be able to provide,” the min­ister said. A representative of Office of the Accoun­tant-General of the Feder­ation, Sylva Okorieaboh, as well as Director/Co­ordinator, Treasury Sin­gle Account (TSA), said while they were unable to prepare for the hearing due to lack of details in the invitation letter, they, however, agreed that gov­ernment funds are likely to be held by commercial banks. “…there’s good like­lihood that substantial amount of Federal Gov­ernment funds might still be lying with commercial banks despite the presi­dential directive of 7th August, 2015, and the cir­culars and efforts made to compel the commer­cial banks to comply with those directives. Nigeria Living On Extra Time, Will Be In Deeper Hole In 2023 —… Bank Customers Lament Increased Scam From PoS Centres “On the 14th of Decem­ber 2021, the Minister of Finance inaugurated new TSA implementation structures and she allud­ed to the fact that there’s a likelihood that substantial amount that Federal Gov­ernment funds are still ly­ing with commercial banks and directed the banks to return those funds or they will be reported to anti-cor­ruption agencies. “We believe that there are still Federal Govern­ment funds with commer­cial banks but we can’t say specifically how much and where, so to that extent we welcome the efforts of this committee,” the TSA office added. The central bank which is at the centre of the in­vestigation with regard to enforcement of its own guidelines to commercial banks pledged to cooperate with the committee with a view to finding solutions to the issue. Other commercial banks are scheduled to ap­pear on February 15, when the investigation would re­sume.