LAGOS – The Lagos Island Local Government Area has indicated plans to effect non-entry into Lagos Island without COVID-19 vaccination and adherence to safety protocols, like the wearing of face masks, effective from 1st March 2022. The executive chairman of Lagos Island LGA, Prince Adetoyese Olusi,  made this known to journalists on Thursday during a parley, stressing that alleviating the impact of the COVID-19 crisis is vital to preventing poverty from deepening in Nigeria. “Before the crisis, approximately 4 in  10 Nigerians were living below the national poverty line, and millions more were just above the poverty line, making them vulnerable to falling back into poverty when shocks occur. COVID-19 Vaccination, Immunisation: Donor Agencies Commend… UK PM Boris Johnson Lifts Remaining COVID-19 Restrictions In… “The impact of COVID-19 has been most strongly felt in the commerce, service, and agriculture sectors. 79 per cent of respondents reported that their household’s total income has decreased since mid-march 2020,” Olusi said. He added, “It is based on the fact that I signed the Executive Order 03 Mass Vaccination and Mask Wearing in Lagos Island LGA. Indeed I launched advocacy on this while enforcement will start from the first of March 2022.” A copy of Executive Order No 3, made available to journalists indicated that the executive chairman signed it on January 13th 2022, and stated that the policy of the administration is to halt the spread of the disease by relying on the best available data and scientific-based public health measures, such as wearing of face mask, physical distancing, and other related precautions recommended by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Lagos State Ministry of Health. According to the chairman, the local government COVID-19 response coordinator shall engage as appropriate with state officials, as well as business, union and other community leaders, regarding mask-wearing and other public health measures, with the goal of maximizing public compliance, He added that there will be an establishment of the LGA workforce with membership to consist of the council-manager, Medical Officer of Health (MOH), the chief of staff, chairman of the National Union of Local government Employees (NULGE), special advisers on Internal affairs and the head of Environment.The chairman used the opportunity to also acquaint the media with some of his activities, stressing that his administration has mapped out a strategy on advocating on ending violence against women and children, financial inclusion and transformative sustainability and inclusive governance. POLL “Special attention is given to promoting and implementing a zero-tolerance policy to sexual violence and other gender-based abuses, especially those rooted to obnoxious cultural traditions, and multiple challenges faced by ageing women,” he said.He also talked about tackling the issue of unemployment through the implementation of the GHEEES Model, which comprises of Health, Education, Environment, Enterprise and Skills Centre, among other activities he hoped to implement to ignite the flame of “Eko Akete Ilu Ogbon”, where everyone is his brother’s keeper. Chief Fouad Oki, a chieftain of the All progressives Congress (APC) used the opportunity to appeal to journalists to assist in the advocacy to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, stressing that cultural impediments from the informal sector is a major challenge to the fight against the spread of the disease. :Rid Lagos of COVID-19, rid Nigeria of COVID-19,” he said.