The Nigeria Governors’ Wives Forum has declared total support for the Nation­al Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, and its on­going war against abuse and trafficking of illicit drugs while seeking a formidable partnership that will secure the states and Nigeria from the menace of drug sub-cul­ture. This was the highlight of a meeting between the lead­ership of the forum and the Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mo­hamed Buba Marwa (Retd) at the Agency’s National Headquarters in Abuja on Thursday 3rd February 2022. Ekiti state First Lady and Chairperson of NGWF, Ere­lu Bisi Fayemi led the dele­gation, which includes First Lady of Kwara, Mrs. Olufo­lake Abdulrasaq; Imo, Mrs. Chioma Uzodinma and Yobe, Hajiya Hafsat Kollere Buni. Fake Soldier, 32 Other Suspects Paraded In Ibadan For Kidnap,… INSECURITY: Nigerian Army Shows Readiness In Partnership With… Welcoming the gover­nors’ wives, Gen. Marwa expressed appreciation for the visit, adding that the interest shown by them in the country’s drug problem shows their humanity and commitment to support their husbands engender a better society devoid of drug-induced criminalities. “Let me put it on record that President Muhamma­du Buhari is the number one drug fighter in Nigeria today because of all he has done to ensure the country wins the war against abuse and trafficking of illicit drugs. As such, we count on the states especially the gov­ernors’ wives as the pillars and partners through which citizens across the states, lo­cal councils and communi­ties are mobilised to reject this ravaging sub-culture”, he stated. He charged the gover­nors’ wives to work with their husbands to make the drug problem a major prior­ity on their agenda; support the state commands of ND­LEA with logistics; set up rehabilitation centres; pro­vide jobs and skills for the youths; massive advocacy campaigns on state-owned media houses and manda­tory drug tests for students, workers as well as intending couples among others. In her remarks, Erelu Fayemi said they came on the visit to inform Gen. Marwa of their collective decision to adopt drug abuse as a flagship project “to ad­dress the alarming problem of drug abuse in our commu­nities.” According to her, “We are therefore here today to pledge our support for NDLEA to ensure that our country and communities become drug-free. We are not willing to stand by as moth­ers and see our children con­sumed by this menace.” POLL They presented four re­quests, all of which were instantly granted by Gen. Marwa. Their demands in­clude that NDLEA continues to see State First Ladies as important allies in further­ance of the objectives of the agency; involve them in the fight against drugs as Cham­pions in their respective States; help build the capac­ity of State Frist Ladies and their teams to be effective partners in the war against drug abuse and involve them in national and State cam­paigns against drugs.