ENUGU – As part of its efforts to tackle the alarming rate of substance abuse in the state, the Enugu State government has taken the campaign against illicit drug abuse to secondary schools in the state. The SA to the Governor on Drugs and Narcotics, Chidiebere Egbuogu, while speaking at the event which was held at College of Immaculate Conception Enugu on Thursday said the target of the campaign were secondary school children. The programme was organised in collaboration with NDLEA, Post Primary School Management Board, International Society of Substance Use Professionals and Worldwide Initiative Against Suicide and Drug Abuse. 2023 Presidency: Sanwo-Olu Urges APC Leaders To Unite For Tinubu Buhari Consulting Over Re-Amended Electoral Bill — Aide The event was organised by the Office of the Special Assistant (SA) to Enugu State Governor on Drug and Narcotics. He said that adolescents had always dominated the drug abuse space and were more prone to committing vices.  He said: “The state government has recognised that active and young persons can be sources of government innovation and improved services. “This is why this administration has since its inception continued to engage the youth in meaningful ventures,” he said. The SA described the challenges of illicit drug abuse as hydra-headed which needed multi-sectoral efforts to be resolved. “Illicit drug abuse is one of the greatest enemies of mankind. It kills the dreams and aspirations of young people and their families. “This is why the state government, in collaboration with other stakeholders and professionals initiated this campaign,” he said. He commended the partners for collaborating with the state government to organise the programme. Also, the Commander, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Enugu State Command, Bassey Anietie, described incidences of substance abuse in the area as alarming. Anietie mentioned crystal meth as the most abused substance in the area, especially in local communities. He, however, said that the state command of the NDLEA had started the sensitisation of community leaders in the state in order to arrest the menace. According to him, local communities in the area are now fully involved in the crusade against illicit drug abuse. “It is a good signal that the people are beginning to own this crusade. They no longer tolerate substance abuse and it is good news,” Anietie said. Responding, the Student Representative, Mmesoma Udeh, said that students who abuse illicit drugs were bound to be disruptive. Mmosoma urged the students to take advantage of the programme to empower themselves with relevant information that would make them lead useful lives.