TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI Even though the Ekiti state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has concluded its governorship primaries, the dusts generated by the exercise is yet to settle as many aggrieved aspirants and their supporters are still embittered about what they perceived as injustice perpetrated against them in the exercise . At the end of the much-anticipated primary, Biodun Oyebanji, the former Secretary to Ekiti State Government was declared the winner and will fly the party’s flag in the June 18 governorship election. BUA Foods Dissociates Self From Artificial Scarcity Of Sugar LAPO Supports Community Members With N19.9bn In 2021, Screens… The Chairman, APC Governorship Primary Electoral Committee for Ekiti, and Jigawa State Governor, Abubakar Badaru, who declared Oyebanji winner of the primary election, said he scored 101,703 votes to defeat other aspirants which include Kayode Ojo, who got 767 votes. Senator Opeyemi Bamidele popularly called MOB, scored 760 votes; former Minister of Works, Senator Dayo Adeyeye polled 691votes; House of Representatives member, Femi Bamisile scored 400 votes. Bamidele Faparusi, a former House of Representatives member, got 376 votes; Demola Popoola, an aviation expert got 239 votes; and Oluwasola Afolabi scored 47 votes. However, it is doubtful if the APC will go into the election as a united entity given events that transpired in the party before and during the primary. Many political analysts have also warned that the party risks losing the state to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) if urgent reconciliation of aggrieved members is not carried out with just few weeks to the main election. Long before the primary, Ekiti APC been bedevilled by intractable crises which resulted in the polarisation of the party into different factions. However, the governorship primary further worsened the situation as seven of the eight governorship aspirants protested the list of Local Government Electoral Committees for the exercise, saying it contained names of supporters and campaigners of Oyebanji who is the candidate favoured by Governor Kayode Fayemi. The aggrieved aspirants – Bamidele; Adeyeye; Bamisile; Faparusi; Ojo; Popoola; and Afolabi, alongside their supporters stormed the state APC Secretariat where they called on the party national leadership and the election committee led by Jigawa state governor, Abubakar Badaru to suspend the primary. POLL Speaking with Journalists at the party’s Secretariat in Ado Ekiti, the aggrieved aspirants alleged that aides and those loyal to Governor Kayode Fayemi were appointed by the Committee as presiding and returning officers. They also alleged that the State Government officials had hijacked the process of the governorship primaries, adding that the local government electoral committees were core loyalists of Governor Fayemi. “They shouldn’t embarrass APC with this conduct. We want the Committee to stop the process. They have made the result sheets available to Biodun Oyebanji’s supporters to write the results. “It was also embarrassing and unfortunate that only the government appointees and those loyal to Governor Fayemi and Oyebanji were appointed as Returning Officers and Presiding Officers. “The outcome of this election is predetermined. We want the process cancelled because we don’t want the committee to embarrass our party by forcing us to confront them in the court”. Despite their protests, the primary election committee still proceeded with the exercise and declared Oyebanji the winner. This led to the aspirants approaching the court for redress aimed at correcting the perceived injustice. Business Professionals Charge BDSPs To Support MSMEs To Grow… Visa Set To Promote Innovation In Fintech With $45,000 Prize Already, the Ekiti PDP which had already elected Otunba Bisi Kolawole as its governorship candidate has been jubilating since the outcome of the APC primary. It also implored the aggrieved members to dump the APC and support the PDP to win the governorship election. Sensing the danger ahead, Senator Bamidele in a statement at the weekend titled ‘ Ekiti 2022 Governorship Primaries And My Stand’ said he has chosen to voluntarily withdraw the case he instituted against the APC in court. While also calling for genuine peace and reconciliation of aggrieved members, he warned that some reactionary forces are lurking around the corner, seeking to benefit from the crisis. He said “Today, Friday, 11th February, 2022; I choose to break my temporary silence and release a short statement with respect to the current crisis in which our party, the All Progressives Congress, is embroiled in Ekiti State. I am doing this because I am not unaware that a lot of Stakeholders, including many of my supporters, kinsmen, friends, family members, colleagues and associates within and outside Ekiti are expecting to hear from me regarding the next political move, especially in response to the manner in which I (like six other Governorship Aspirants) was treated”. “The need to widely consult in situations like these cannot be overemphasized and it is in that respect that I had spent the last ten days engaging in broad spiritual, political, legal and personal consultations and I remain entirely grateful to all those who had given quality time and attention to my matter in the course of the consultations”. “As it is today, whatever I decide to do and in whichever direction I choose to go, it is clear that I cannot possibly respond in a way that will satisfy all the shades of opinion or make all the tendencies, with varying and sometimes conflicting perspectives, simultaneously happy. I, therefore, choose this day to take some final decisions based on my personal convictions and accept responsibility for them. Sometimes, leadership is also about standing up to posit even when such positions may not be popular with some or even majority of our admirers and supporters at the very beginning and in the face of initial and raging anger and disappointment’. “Has my position changed on the fact that what took place in Ekiti on the night of Wednesday, 26th and the morning of Thursday, 27th January, 2022 in the name of Governorship primaries was a charade and sheer impunity? No. I still strongly hold the position that it was a mockery of democracy that should be condemned by all means. Am I happy with the present political situation in Ekiti? Not at all. Am I hurting like many genuine democrats are doing in Ekiti today? Yes. Am I convinced that failure or any further hesitation on the part of the national leadership of APC to specifically and decisively address the current and previous crises in Ekiti State would amount to playing the Ostrich and waiting for a doomsday? Yes. Am I giving up on the ongoing struggle for justice and internal party democracy in Ekiti State? Never”. “Yet, in spite of my strong convictions as expressed above, I have come to some irreversible conclusions and these are the messages I need to pass on to all and sundry today as I temporarily break my silence on the way forward. One is to say that I have chosen to drop the option of going to Court to sue the party. The other is to make it crystal clear to everyone that both my supporters and I will not defect from APC. Details of the reasons which informed these choices will be communicated at a later date when my supporters and I address Ekiti people and Nigerians at large”. “It is not just about me. It is about the unity and progress of Ekiti State and her politically undermined and economically afflicted people. It is also about ensuring that the ground is not prepared for reactionary beneficiaries to take advantage of seeming lack of capacity to manage our affairs as a ruling party in the State. I also must coordinate and lead my own aspect of this popular struggle in a way to ensure that my supporters and stakeholders who had been isolated from the mainstream of the party become relevant again, for anything short of that can only be a highway to nowhere”. “We have all contributed so much to building this party in Ekiti State and the management as well as its decision making process cannot be an exclusive preserve of a few. That is the new reality that those in control, including our national leadership must accept or it becomes a popular subject matter of a struggle around which a popular movement must be built. This is where I stand!”