The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu on Thursday received over 33,000 Decampees from APC into Peoples Democratic party at a well attended mega rally held at Polo field Jos. While receiving the decampees led former Plateau State Chairman of All Progressives Congress Chief Letep Dabang, said Plateau State is the home of PDP and assured that the state will be won back to PDP fold in 2023. He accused All Progressives Congress, APC government of President Buhari of becoming scared of signing into law the new electoral act amendment bill because their party is afraid of losing the 2023 general elections. Private: Defection Saga: PDP Will Soon Take Control Of Ebonyi… Enugu APC Chairman Wants State Wrestled From PDP Ayu challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the bill immediately Into Law to position the nation on the path of having a credible election. The National Chairman of PDP during the event, presented the Party’s flags to the candidates standing for the bye-elections for Jos North/Bassa federal Constituency billed for this Saturday and as well representatives of the decampees. Ayu charged them to be united and ensure victory for the party starting from this Saturday Polls . His words, “I am proud of Plateau as the home of PDP. This is the only serious party in the country, all others are contraptions. Under PDP, we saw development and unity but now, there is no development. I want to see the unity of leaders of PDP on the Plateau because this is the home of the PDP . If they are not united, if I have a problem, where will I go? POLL “I want everyone to work together and bring back all our members who were angry and left PDP. Plateau is the home of PDP, we must work together to return to power and save the country. I don’t want Plateau to be in opposition when we win the election at the federal… You must do the right thing, get your PVC, and vote. Our votes will count, that is why the APC doesn’t want electoral reforms. President Buhari must sign the electoral act immediately, that will make elections impossible to rig…” Speaking on behalf of the decampees, Dabang, aka the masquerade, went down memory lane recalling how he was “a messenger,” running errands for the PDP as sent by the late Chief Solomon Lar, Professor Dakum Shown, Senators Ayu, and Jang, among others. He apologized to Plateau people for playing an active role in selling APC to them in the State saying, “I regret the confusion that we brought.” Speaking on his role in bringing the APC in the State, he added, “… as the dodo, I am the one that tied the hyena, I know how we will loosen the hyena,” and assured the people, “I am not here to join any faction, we must be united to change the ugly change. What will make the masquerade to run from a place, be wise and run from such.” Goodwill messages were received from dignitaries including the Party’s Chairman, Board Of Trustees Senator Walid, National Youth Leader, Mohammed Suleiman, Amb. Fidelis Tapgun, Senator Jonah Jang, Senator Jeremiah Useni, PDP Vice Chairman, North Central, Theophilus Dakashan among others at the event.