..As APC Wins Gwagwalada, Kwali, Abaji The Area Council Elections came to an end with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) taking the shine. Out of the six Area Councils, PDP won in three and beat the ruling party to clinch Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). Electoral Act Amendment: Buhari Scared Of APC Losing In 2023… APC Suffers Mass Defection Of Leaders, Members To PDP In Delta PDP won in AMAC, Bwari and Kuje area Councils. Below are the results: The Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party PDP Christopher Zaka has been declared winner of the Chairmanship election in the Abuja Municipal Area Council of the FCT The Returning Officer for Chairmanship Election in the municipal area council Professor Sani Saka declared Mr Christopher Zaka who polled 19302 to defeat his closest rival Mr. Murtala Karshi of All Progressives Congress APC who scored 13240 with a margin lead of 5962 Mr. Christopher Zaka has met the requirements of the Constitution and the electoral law. POLL The PDP also won the councillorship with about 2494 over a close rival of 1124 votes More so, the Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party PDP Mr. John Gabaya has been declared winner of the Chairmanship election in Bwari Area Council of the FCT The Returning Officer for Chairmanship Election in Bwari Professor Amuche Madu declared Mr. Gabaya who polled 13045 to defeat his closest rival Mr. Haruna Shekwolo of All Progressives Congress APC who scored 7697. Mr. Gabaya was then returned elected having met the requirements of the Constitution and the electoral law. In addition, the electoral umpire has declared Suleman Sabo of the PDP winner of the Kuje Area Council chairmanship election in the FCT. APC Inaugurates Party Officials In Benue Rumblings In Abia APC: Kalu Calls For Calm, Says Defection Won’t… Sabo, an incumbent chairman, floored his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu of the APC in all the 10 wards of the area council. Sabo got 13,301 votes to defeat Hamidu of the APC who polled 7,694 votes. Sule Magaji, INEC returning officer for Kuje area council, announced the final results on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, Jubrin Abubakar, a candidate of the APC, has been declared the winner of the chairmanship poll in the Gwagwalada area council. Abubakar defeated his rival, Mohammed Kassim of the PDP. He was declared the winner of the exercise by ID Umar, INEC returning officer for Gwagwalada area council. He secured 11,125 votes while Kassim polled 9,597 votes. Also, the returning officer of the FCT Area Council Election at Abaji Area Council, professor Gabriel Mordi has reserved the declaration of the winner of the Saturday poll. Professor Mordi who read out the total scores for All the political parties involved in the election says though the All Progressives Congress APC scored the highest votes, they could not be declared winners without a party candidate for the election.Mordi says the winner will be announced after the determination of the case before the court in Abuja. Similarly, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr. Danladi Chiya has emerged as the winner of the Kwali Area Council chairmanship election with the Total of 7646 against his closest Rival of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Mr Haruna Pai who scored 7345. The Returning officer of the Election Professor Wesley Daniel Nafarnda of the University of Abuja Made the declaration at the INEC Office in Kwali Abuja. Mr. Danladi Chiya is the first since the inception of Democracy in the Kwali Area Council to be reelected as an incumbent Chairman.