LAGOS  – The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), on Monday, moved its proposed national convention from February 26 – March 26, thus confirming rumours since December 2021 that the Caretaker Committee was not disposed towards the February convention date and that a power bloc in the party was pursuing a an agenda to consolidate its hold on power. In a letter signed by the Chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party, Mai Mala Buni, and the Secretary, John Akpanudoedehe, the party informed the commission that the new arrangement superseded the earlier letter. In the letter, dated February 21, 2022, marked APC/NHDQ/ INEC/019/22/21, the party said it had to hold a zonal congress first in compliance with its constitution. South-East Presidency: A Look At Orjiakor, Ekeh, Onyeama Zoning Agitation Persists As Enugu Governorship Contenders… The letter titled, “Notice for the Conduct of Zonal Congress”, and read in part, “This notice supersedes our earlier notice for a national convention referenced APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14. This is predicated on the evaluation of our party constitution.” A Long Delayed Convention Members of the party had anxiously looking forward to a date in December 2020 for the national convention when the 13-man CECPC led by Buni was inaugurated in June 2020. Despite several postponements in the past, the CECPC was compelled to announce February 26, 2022, after pressure from within and outside, but with only a few days to the date, the hopes of party members were again dashed with the announcement of an indefinite date. Hiding under the various intra-party crises in states over the outcome of last year’s congresses, the struggle for control of party structures between governors, ministers, federal lawmakers and some former governors, the supporters of the Buni-led CECPC see no need for the convention. Even when the legality of the existence and the activities of the caretaker committee put the party’s future electoral victories at a mercy of court pronouncement, for lack of substantive NWC in place, the leadership seemed not perturbed. POLL Earlier Calls For Postponement Before the recent postponement, there had been subtle protests and campaigns by various groups, who sought strict adherence to the February 26 date. Few months ago, the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, in a letter to the CECPC Chairman, called for the postponement of the convention, justifying the need not to go ahead with the convention. Kalu, who did not limit his call to the postponement of the convention, also requested that the Buni-led CECPC should consider conducting the presidential primary and election of the party’s NWC on the same day. In a letter he titled, ‘Urgent Appeal for Postponement of APC National Convention’, the Senator also warned that holding the convention in February without sorting out the minor disagreements that had arisen during the congresses would lead to an implosion. Tinubu Has Resources To Win 2023 Presidency – Ogunlewe Igbo Group Condemns Okechukwu’s Attack On Bauchi Governor,… Explaining why the convention should not hold on the stipulated date, Kalu said: “It is pertinent to note that some states are embroiled in a crisis with multiple factions. These factions are not new to our politics, especially since the return of democracy in 1999. However, it is important to put into consideration the consequences of these factions during and after elections. “It is on this note that I write to appeal to your office and members of the Convention Extraordinary Planning Committee to reconsider the slated date for the 2022 national convention. “The logical corollary of the foregoing pronouncements of the courts is that having too many cases without settling them amicably, the APC may be embarking upon a collision course which may lead the party to implosion. “It is important to first postpone the convention with all peace and reconciliation machinery fully put in place. The issue of zoning should be properly handled with even representation across the six geopolitical zones.” Advocates Of Convention Shift While the caretaker committee was having its way seamlessly, a group of aspirants, under the aegis of All Aspirants Forum, threw its weight behind the CECPC agenda. In a letter to the Buni committee, the forum called for the postponement of the convention even though its members were major stakeholders. The letter was signed by Maxwell Yakubu Gowon, an aspirant for the position of National Youth Leader, and Mohammed Bala Mohammed, an aspirant for National Secretary. The aspirants in their letter faulted the activities of the Senator Abdullahi Adamu led National Reconciliation Committee. According to them, “The Abdullahi Adamu-led reconciliatory committee did not help matters in the task assigned to it. Instead, it further complicated the issues at stake by refusing to look at them holistically but instead relied on rumours and hearsays in coming to a conclusion in its report. “The implication of the above statement is that those that were meant to be reconciled ended up infuriated by the actions of the reconciliatory committee. The signs in this regard are evident for every well-meaning member of the APC to see. But they have elected in their wisdom to downplay these contentious issues in the report submitted. “This, in our opinion, is a great disservice to your efforts at positioning the APC for electoral success. As you may be aware, the public space has been flooded with narratives that paint the APC as a party of strange bedfellows whose interests are propelled primarily for self-aggrandizement. “Mr. Chairman may wish to critically examine the various agitations in the different states in the country. The feelers are not pleasant, and with the benefit of hindsight, it would indeed spell doom if the party goes ahead with the national convention under such circumstances. “The truth remains that the February 26 date for the party’s national convention is not realistic. Mr. Chairman may wish to be reminded that should the party disintegrate, all fingers would point in his direction. The tendency for unsavoury remarks on his personality would not be in shortfall. We strongly advise Mr. Chairman to, without further delay, stop all preparations toward the national convention slated for 26th February 2022.” More Opposition To February 26 On his part, the Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, also saw nothing wrong in postponing the convention, as he stated that no offence would be committed if the party failed to conduct the event on February 26. His words: “Of course, that is the decision of the party, and there is nothing wrong even if it doesn’t hold; what is important is that we must have our convention. We have said it is February 26. If for any reason tomorrow it is not doable in the opinion of the party, we will shift it. But that does not mean that there is any intention to shift it.” While many APC members and political observers felt the coast was clear for the convention, some few individuals, who could read between the lines, knew that the caretaker committee was not prepared to go ahead with the conduct of the convention. And in a bid to make this come to fruition, a well thought out script was allegedly prepared by the CECPC. Sources within the party claimed that the Buni-led committee engaged foot soldiers whose primary assignment at different stages was to plant landmines that would create difficulties and make the February 26 date unrealisable. According to these sources, the first area of concern that triggered apprehension among aspirants, party members, and political watchers, was the clash in the date chosen. They explained that the INEC had scheduled by-elections in several states on that date by fixing legislative by-elections in six federal constituencies and in four state constituencies for February 26. Many political watchers saw this clash as a big hurdle and a trap capable of truncating the conduct of the convention. “However, the Buni-led committee never saw the threat posed by the clash in the date for the convention and the by-elections. “The committee pretended that everything was well until Monday when they suddenly realised that the by-election threatened the conduct of the convention and promptly shifted it to next month. “Behind the scene, the Buni-led CECPC had always plotted to frustrate the holding of the convention. After succumbing to pressure and announcing the February 26 date, they came up with a schedule of activities towards the convention. “Many had expected that they would stick to the plan, but a crack was noticed in the plan on February 14, when aspirants for various positions were denied nomination forms. They failed to provide forms and by February 19, it became clear that they have no plan to honour the arrangement. “This was when Buni refused to announce and inaugurate sub-committees for the convention. All these sent signals that February 26 is nothing but a mirage,” a source told our correspondent. Meanwhile, the latest postponement has been described as an embarrassment by some chieftains of the party. A chieftain of party in Abia State, Chekwas Okorie, described the present scenario surrounding the party’s national convention as embarrassing. In his reaction to the development, Okorie said it was embarrassing that the party was playing into the hands of the opposition. His words: “This is not a pleasant development. Many party members and leaders are disappointed about what is going on. The excuses being given are not satisfactory. “But, be that as it may, there is a limit to the postponement because every party must at the end of the day yield to the timetable that would be released by the electoral umpire. I hope that this new date they are coming up with would be the last one and that this time the convention would take place; particularly now that a definite date has been given. “The next convention to elect the party’s presidential candidate would be another trying moment because very formidable leaders from different geo-political zones have indicated their interest to participate in the election. If the party is finding it difficult to zone party offices and hold the convention as scheduled, one wonders how they are going to tackle the issue of picking the presidential flag bearer. This is something I am very worried about. “What happens between now and the presidential primary would determine whether the APC would continue to be in power beyond 2023. It would require maturity and political savvy to navigate through this very disturbing scenario.” PDP Ridicules Rival The leadership of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in its reaction, took a swipe at the APC, attributing the postponement to confusion in the fold of the APC. In a statement signed by its spokesperson, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP described APC as a gathering of strange bedfellows with little or nothing to avail the nation in terms of good governance. Part of the statement read: “The continuing inability by the All Progressives Congress, APC, a party in government, to conduct a routine national convention has further explained why all sectors of our national life have been in the shambolic state under the incompetent, corrupt, rudderless and overtly confused APC administration. “APC’s postponement of its national convention yet again validates PDP’s stance that the APC is not a political party but a Special Purpose Vehicle, SPV, of strange bedfellows, ‘political buccaneers’ and ferocious power mongers on a mission to wreck our nation. “The PDP states that the APC which cannot conduct its own internal affairs could not be expected to successfully manage the affairs of a nation like Nigeria. The APC is a perfect example of failure both as a party and as a government unable to conduct a simple national convention in two years. It has become a Russian Roulette with an unending request for extension of time to undertake a routine statutory political activity,” the statement read in part.” Justifying its stand further, the PDP said it was not surprising that the APC, “a party of backstabbers, again postponed its national convention already scheduled for February 26, 2022. It is rather saddening how a set of confused, greedy, deceitful, hard-heartened and self-centred individuals who cannot run a creditable organisation foisted themselves in power and plunged our nation into the economic, security and social mess that we face today”. It added: “APC’s postponement of its national convention had always been a fallout of the horrible infighting, backbiting and gang war by ‘political bandits’ who are desperate for power and access to our national treasury. That explains why their congresses and other activities are always marred by violence, bloodletting and killings. “Moreover, the APC is not capable of holding a national convention having become defunct since December 8, 2020, when it dissolved all its states, zonal and national party structures and set up an illegal contrivance called the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee led by Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State. “Of course, the activities of the Mai Mala Buni committee remain invalid and unconstitutional by virtue of Section 183 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) which bars a sitting governor from holding “any other executive office” in any capacity whatsoever while serving as a state governor. “The failure of the APC to hold a national convention is, therefore, a clear warning to those aspiring for various positions in the 2023 election on its platform to note that with the APC, they are on a journey to nowhere. The only way the APC can legitimately participate in the 2023 general election is to re-apply to the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, for fresh registration as a political party. “In any case, Nigerians are hopeful for a better future because the PDP is back and repositioned to rescue and rebuild our nation from the stranglehold of the APC in 2023. “Nigerians are yearning for the return of good governance with the PDP so that they can again be secure, enjoy economic prosperity, infrastructural development, employment, food security and national cohesion which they experienced in the 16 years of the PDP in power.” Also, an aspirant for the position of national chairman of the APC, Mohammed Musa, said Nigerians and members of the party were tired of the constant extension and postponements of the national convention. Deepening Anxiety Over Convention Shift Speaking as a guest on Arise TV, ‘The Morning Show’, on Tuesday, said that even though the constant postponements of the convention may be to give state chapters all the time they need to resolve their conflicts and elect those who will vote at the national convention, it is important it is done as soon as possible. Musa, who is the Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District and one of the three main contenders for the chairmanship position, advised the party not to allow little internal scrabbles to make all the successes it has achieved go down the drain. “Convention is a necessity for the party and I believe the caretaker committee has been doing very well, but I think the members need to do more. Nigerians and members of the party are tired of the constant extensions and postponements. We are all living witnesses that President Muhammadu Buhari is also not happy with this. “Nigerians never had a good experience in terms of infrastructure development until the APC government came on board, so we should not allow little internal scrambles in the party to make all the successes that we have achieved go down the drain. “Members of the party are agitating that there should be a convention and as such, we should do it as soon as possible. The likely postponement for February 26 is acceptable because you cannot disenfranchise others because they are going to elect the representatives that would be going to Abuja. If this is the reason given, then it is okay, but if we fix a date, we should maintain that date. This is my candid opinion,” he said. Wike Throws Jibes Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, on Wednesday, joined in mocking the ruling party for its inability to conduct its national convention. The governor said a party that could not organise its convention should be viewed as inept in administering the country. Wike, who was speaking at the special grand reception organised to celebrate the National Secretary of the PDP, Senator Samuel Nnaemeka Anyanwu, by the Imo State PDP chapter at the Kanu Nwankwo Sports Complex, Owerri, stated that such inability as shown by the APC was another proof for Nigerians to use in denying the APC any place of governance both at the federal level and in any State of the federation in 2023. “Nigerians are angry because the party (APC) at the national level is a failure. It is a failure to the point that they are ruling Nigeria with tension. Ordinarily to sign the Electoral Act, they keep on postponing it every day and Nigerians are tired. “What they are doing is to postpone the convention. A party that cannot hold a national convention, is it a party that can rule Nigeria? “Ordinary convention, a party in power cannot hold one. Look at how we did our own convention. That is to tell you that PDP is the party that should rule Nigeria. This is the party that will rule Imo State too.” Governor Wike emphasised that one of the reasons for him being at the reception was to tell them of the need for PDP to strategise and reclaim the governorship of Imo State because the sitting governor has failed already. “The only mistake that we will make to allow the man to come back is for us not to work together, and we will not make that mistake. “Now, all of us must unite. If there is no party, there will be no governor. If there is no party, there will be no president. “Let nobody fear, nobody can intimidate us. Can you be intimidated? All that time has passed when somebody that carries fourth will come first. It will never happen again. “But, if you want us to take back Imo State in the next election, all of us must work together. We are ready to support you to take back Imo State,” he added. Not a few observers believe that the postponement of the convention will set the party on edge and possibly further factionalise the party when the convention is eventually held. These observers believe that, given the time available before the general elections, the party must act with tact and maturity in order to keep the party together for the 2023 challenge.