Despite a huge contribution to the economy, players in the informal sector lack the necessary infrastructure to scale up their businesses and living standards. Therefore, there is a growing need for governments and policymakers to put adequate mechanisms in place to provide economic security for the informal sector as lack of access to infrastructure and financial coverage keep hurting businesses. Tunji Andrews, economist and financial inclusion advocate has developed Awabah, a solution to provide these players with long term financial security. Awabah is a Nigerian-based digital pension platform for self-employed people. Starting with Nigeria, it aims to create a financial ecosystem around Africa’s informal economy. NIA Mulls Export Credit Guarantee Insurance, Political Risks For… Identify Needs Of Customers, Develop Solutions To Deliver… “When you work a nine-to-five, you have access to several perks; HMO, loans, or mortgage because you have a salary. These things are generally available to you because you have a salary-paying job. People in the informal sector cannot access these perks, and sometimes they earn more than people who work in corporate organisations. Unfortunately, nobody has moved to create this ecosystem around them. And that’s what we are doing with Awabah; creating that robust ecosystem around the informal sector, starting with pensions, then insurance, loans, deposits for mortgages, etcetera. The horizon is enormous,” Andrews said. Since it commenced operations in January 2021, Awabah already has its footprints in Lagos State, Kwara State and Oyo State. The fintech is looking to raise funding for expansion into five other Nigerian states including, Edo, Ekiti, Kano, Kaduna and Abuja in the next six months. “This will require a lot of heavy lifting because we have to interface with people. The average Nigerian will not trust you with their money. So, we have to educate and sensitize them. We have to make them understand why this is necessary. And provide short term value as they plan for the future,” Andrews said. Accounting for 80.8 per cent of jobs, the informal sector is the main source of employment and the backbone of economic activity in sub-Saharan Africa. Yet poverty is spreading throughout the region, especially in Nigeria’s rural communities. POLL Last year, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that in 2020 40 per cent (83 million) of Nigerians live in poverty. The bureau projected that the number of poor people in Nigeria would increase to 45 per cent (90 million) of its population by 2022. Awabah is working to reduce poverty in the country. “Many Nigerians are poor because their parents were poor, and their environment makes it difficult for them to advance in life. So, we need to create infrastructure around these people,” Andrews noted. “For instance, if I live in a community, where there is no power, the only source of money is either to farm or fish or to ride a commercial motorcycle, there’s very little I can do to scale my life if you think about it. I can work hard and fish more, but my customers will be people in my community.