Osogbo – Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun, who swept all the 30 local government areas and Ife- East area office in the just-concluded governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, has extended hands of fellowship to co-contenders. Governor Oyetola also urged members of his party to close ranks and eschew bitterness in all forms, saying the time has come for all aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with him to further strengthen the party and deliver outstanding results at the gubernatorial poll. He reiterated his administration’s commitment to running all inclusive, equitable and participatory governance in the state. Senate Tackles UniAbuja Over Non-Remittance Of N603m To… Buratai Denies Contesting 2023 Presidency Oyetola stated this while delivering his acceptance speech shortly after he was declared winner by the party’s Governorship Primary Election Committee led by the Kwara State governor, AbdulRasak AbdulRahman. He described the victory as a restatement of people’s confidence in his development agenda, which “hope delivered in 2018 and performance sealed in 2022”. Governor Oyetola said, “On this historic occasion of the peaceful conclusion of the primary election and my emergence as the candidate of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun, I give glory to Almighty God for making it possible. “Once again, our great party has spoken as a beacon of democracy and as a strong and united channel of development. “We have jointly made a resolve to continue to redefine governance and re-entrench sustainable democracy. Today’s victory is made possible by the members of our great party who gave us another opportunity to face the people of Osun to seekre-election. POLL The out come of this primary election is victory for our party and members who have spoken loudly through their votes. “It is a victory for our people who trooped out in large numbers during our strategic tour of the state to inform them of our intention to seek a second term. “I thank you all our party members for your constant support, and especially for speaking eloquently today with your massive votes in favour of our administration’s restoration and consolidation agenda. “With this primary election now concluded, I invite us all to rededicate ourselves and the party to delivering an overwhelming victory at the gubernatorial polls on Saturday, 16th July, 2022. “For me, we are all winners. I, therefore, extend my hand of fellowship to the other two aspirants to join me as we prepare for the July election. We are all brothers. Let’s join hands to build the Osun of our dream. “Let us close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form. Therefore, may I use this opportunity to also ask all our aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with us to further strengthen our party and deliver outstanding results at the gubernatorial poll. N20bn Assets At Risk As FAAN Plans Demolition Of Hangars NAFDAC Seizes 120 Tons Of Dangerous Imported ‘Ponmo’ In Lagos “To all our citizens, we thank you for standing by us in the journey of these three years plus. I promise not to let you down in the years ahead. “As we commence the electioneering campaigns, I urge all contestants across party lines to perform this exercise with utmost decency and not jeopardise the peace and tranquility our state is noted for. This is the least our people deserve and the beauty democracy requires.” Oyetola polled 222,169 votes to defeat the duo of Adeoti Moshood Olalekan, who is a former Secretary to the State Government, and Yusuf Sulaiman Lasun, who is a former Deputy Speaker, House Representatives. According to the official results, Adeoti polled 12,921 votes to come a distant second, while Lasun polled 460 votes to come third. Meanwhile, hours before the results were announced, Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, had alleged fraud and rejected the results. Aregbesola through his media aide, Sola Fasure, urged his supporters to remain calm even when provoked. Fasure said in the statement, “On behalf of the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, I will like to thank you most sincerely for heeding the call earlier this morning to participate in our party’s governorship primary and conduct yourselves most peacefully. You adopted a non-violent posture, even in the face of sore provocation. “You have demonstrated your loyalty to the party and democratic ideals. You have comported yourselves as Omoluabi in the true essence. “We have received and continue to receive the reports of the shenanigans of the officials who conducted the sham of an election. We have been inundated with reports state-wide of how your names were expunged from the party’s voters’ register, which was not made available until this morning, contrary to the convention of making the list available to the candidates before the election. “We have heard of how party registration cards were being hawked this morning to the supporters of the state governor. “We have also received reports of how accreditation was not done at all in many wards and how people without the party identification just participated and queued behind the governor in many polling units. “We have received the report from our members and independent observers, how government officials and notable supporters of the governor officiated in the election, how votes were farcically counted in favour of the governor and how the votes recorded for him were more than the number of voters accredited ab initio in many units. “We have heard of the absence of result sheets and other vital documents for recording results and vital data. We note also the absence of INEC officials in most wards, casting serious doubt on the credibility of the election. “We note with shame and much regret the consternation of local and international observers on what they regard as a travesty of an election. “I will urge you to maintain your cool and calm. Be not downcast, be not agitated. Hold your head high. We are still receiving and studying all these reports and will take a definitive position on them. “You are urged not to take laws into your hands. Please leave the rest to the Almighty God and let us explore all peaceful and legal means for addressing the matter in order to obtain justice. “Pleaseremain committedto peace and the rule of law. Be unflinching in your commitment to the democratic ideals. Democracy is for the long haul. As you all know, we never tire and we never give up on the cause we believe in. Be rest assured that victory is ours.”