General Stephen Townsend, the Commander of US Africa Command, in this digital press briefing with journalists at the end of the 2022 African Chiefs of Defence Conference in Rome, Italy, speaks on activities of the command and how the U.S. government is working with African partners on the security of the continent. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: Can you provide an overview of U.S. Africom’s major efforts and the Chiefs of Defence Conference that held recently? Every day, the U.S. Africa Command is focused on four major lines of effort. The first is to maintain U.S. strategic relationships, access and influence on the continent, and that’s for whatever America might need in the future, and that means if we call and ask for an emergency overflight, for a crisis or a medevac, that African leaders know who we are, they understand our request, and they are more than likely to say yes to that. That’s an example. The second thing we work on is countering threats that might emanate from Africa. Typically we’re focused on countering violent extremist threats, but it could also include anyone else who’d like to harm the U.S. or our allies and our partners. Three is respond to crises. The goal is to prevent a crisis, but U.S. forces are always ready to respond to a variety of crises – everything ranging from humanitarian assistance such as the Ebola crisis, or a natural disaster such as a major cyclone, or a direct threat to a U.S. embassy or our partner forces. And then fourth; we do all of this by partnering with our allies. This is the foundation of everything we do. AFRICOM doesn’t have a lot of resources, and so to achieve those first three things, we have to work by, with, and through our partners. We like to follow their lead and support them wherever we can. This leads me to my second major point here; our Chiefs of Defence or CHOD Conference. This year’s conference was themed ‘Shared investment for a shared future.’ We had about 36 chiefs of defence or their representatives attend our conference here in Rome and some others dialed in virtually. Senior defence leaders from across Africa and the United States were gathered together to discuss the major challenges that we all face and that none of us can solve alone. Our futures are linked, and one nation’s progress toward security benefits all nations. Lastly, I want to emphasize that the U.S. makes investments where and our partners’ values align. We prioritize human rights, we strive to uphold the law of armed conflict, and we believe in civilian control over our military. Recently, the world has seen an emerging trend of unconstitutional military-led changes of government. Overthrowing elected leaders can undo decades’ worth of progress on democracy. These military seizures of power are inconsistent with U.S. democratic values and our professional military ethos. So, it’s important, we believe, that our military partners stay out of politics. Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… Security in the Sahel region continues to deteriorate; what support is the U.S. providing to the armies engaged in the fight against terrorism? I agree that security in the Sahel continues to deteriorate. The U.S. military works and assists, provides support to both the G5 Sahel Joint Force and, bilaterally, to the nations that comprise it. The types of support that we provide include equipment, training, intelligence- sharing, and in some cases airlift and in some cases logistics support and advisory support. The purpose is to allow members to operate, protect, and maintain their forces in the fight against violent extremist groups. We like to provide that support directly to our African partners; we also provide some of that support to international partners working in the Sahel. U.S. Africa Command contributes a liaison officer that’s stationed at the G5 Sahel Joint Force headquarters to further support these collaborative efforts. We have provided more than $8 million in military equipment to Niger in a ceremony this past August to help Niger and Sahel Joint Force partners in the fight against terrorism, as one example. How would you rate the success of the U.S. counterterrorism efforts during your tenure? This is something actually I’ve been pondering a lot here as I have entered my last year in this position, and I think the bottom line up front, candidly, I’m personally not satisfied with our progress against violent extremists in Africa, particularly East Africa and West Africa. I assess that violent extremism in those two regions continues to expand in both geography and reach as well as influence. I think that in the north of Africa, violent extremism is in a better place and we have seen progress from both our U.S. efforts as well as our partners’ efforts. And then, in the southern part of Africa, we’ve seen the emergence of ISIS-Central Africa and ISIS-Mozambique, which is of concern and we’re seeing a very aggressive response by African partners there and a deployment led by forces from Central and South Africa to go after ISIS-Mozambique. However, I’m still concerned about the forces, the violent extremist organizations in East Africa and West Africa. We’ve seen a number of tactical victories. One really good example would be U.S. support to a successful French operation that killed al- Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb leader Droukdel in June of 2020, and there have been a number of successes in the fight against al-Shabaab in Somalia. But my assessment is: Even these tactical victories have not been enough; they’re insufficient. I think the key to this is that military forces alone cannot defeat violent extremism. The root of violent extremism is insufficient with poor governance, and so because of that, we have to have a whole-of-government approach, and at AFRICOM we say that we like to use a 3D approach where we lead with diplomacy and development and follow with defence efforts. So, that 3D approach is what we need to address the problem of violent extremism. I think in East Africa, I think particularly in Somalia, al-Shabaab is taking advantage of the political leadership there being distracted by a prolonged political crisis as the Somali government and people are trying to find their way to electing a new parliament and electing a new president. But while that is going on, the pressure is off al-Shabaab. In the Sahel, I think Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM), which is an arm of al-Qaida, and ISIS groups continue to expand, creeping towards the coastal states. We’ve seen recent attacks in Benin, Togo, and Côte d’Ivoire. To me, these attacks show this expansion that I’m concerned about and why military intervention is only part of the solution to this problem. We can continue to help forces, local forces have tactical success on the ground, but we have to have the support of good governance and development as well. So, as long as we don’t have a coherent 3D approach from not just African partners but all of the international partners, to include the U.S., I think the terrorists will continue to take advantage of that and continue their expansion. So, to sum it up, I’m not satisfied with our progress and I think there is work to be done. You mentioned coups in Africa, and the fact that soldiers are taking over power by force and undermining democracy. We also realize that people have been celebrating whenever those coups have taken place recently, and understand that poverty, corruption, hunger, and all the rest are increasing in the continent and people may not be enjoying the fruit of democracy. When you add foreign forces to that, it’s a total mess. Can you tell us why there are so many coups in Africa recently? POLL Are the Russians and the Chinese involved in this, and what can the U.S. do? The simple answer is no and I cannot tell you why there are so many coups. I’m not sure anyone really knows the answer to that. I think we’ve enjoyed nearly 20 years or so of very low numbers of coups or irregular or unconstitutional changes of government, but here in the last year, we have seen a number of them and to include a number of attempted coups. So, I don’t know why all that is, but my guess is that it has to do with insufficient governance, lack of good governance, and corruption. I think that’s probably the most of it. And as you know, and as I said in my opening statement, the U.S. does not support or condone these unconstitutional changes of government and the broader effect they have on democracy and the progress of democracy. But I think that corruption and lack of good governance is probably behind much of that. You asked about the involvement of the Russians and the Chinese in these coups generally. We have not seen any involvement by the Chinese in any of these coups. I don’t think they’re doing that, furthering that or promoting those. With Russia, I think it’s a little less clear. I think I have received reports of Russian involvement at least in Sudan in the not too distant past. So I don’t know. I think the jury is out on that. I don’t think China is behind any of these coups and I don’t really think that Russia is the main animating force behind most of them, but the hand of Russia may be visible in one or two of these.