The Vice-President, Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Southwest Zone, Comrade Ronke Samo has admonished journalists and media practitioners to uphold the ethics of the profession in the discharge of their duties. Comrade Samo ,in a release to mark the 2022  World Radio Day described trust as  an important tool  for any successful journalist or broadcaster. The 2022 edition of the global event which holds on February 13, is tagged: Radio and Trust, by the United Nations’ UNESCO organisation and it is the 11th edition. While urging journalists to be ready and prepare to tell the truth at all times. Samo said:  ” it is only through trust, which journalists should be known for, that success and progress can be achieved in the noble profession of journalism. The VP said: trust, though is a fragile cord, such that once it is broken, either by the error of commission or omission or a deliberate act, is difficult to mend, Journalists must, however, ensure that it is one of their most cherished values, as only in doing this can they defend the truth which is the profession’s duty. ” On this glorious day of the World Radio Day celebration, I urge my colleagues in this noble profession to ensure that trust is a virtue they hold dearly and uphold as journalists and media practitioners. Trust itself is a virtue and it is very rare to find a trustworthy fellow. But with the nature of our job, trust is central, especially given the fact that the public trusts us as Reporters. It stated that “we must therefore ensure that we do not disappoint the public who repose such absolute confidence in us. We must also stay clear of fake news. And ensure that we represent the truth in whatever information we disseminate. “This year’s theme for the World Radio Day, according to Susan Asthworth is Radio and Trust. It is further testimony that the public trusts radio and by extension, the radio broadcasters and journalists. POLL ” Radio is regarded as the most accessible medium of mass communication to the public because of its cheap and very wide accessibility to the grassroots and this elicits the trust the public has in this medium of mass communication. “By extension, as we celebrate the trustworthiness of Radio today, we should also emulate this virtue by being trustworthy in our dealings as Reporters. While l join millions of radio users, listeners and broadcasters worldwide to celebrate this unique day, l urge my colleagues to remain trustworthy so that we can meaningfully contribute our quota to nation-building. Thank you and happy celebration.