A Chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Ezeh Emmanuel Ezeh, has declared interest to contest the governorship of Ebonyi State in 2023. Dr Ezeh, an Oxford University-trained Entrepreneur and businessman of good repute, made this known during Ebonyi State PDP expanded State Executive Council meeting held on Tuesday. He pledged to resolve issues surrounding the moribund Nigeria Cement Nkalagu (NigerCem) within 100 days in office if elected Governor of the State. 2023: Ebonyi PDP Legal Adviser Calls For Conference Over Zoning Ebonyi Federal Lawmaker Secures Over 400 Jobs, Sponsors 13 Bills… He noted that NigerCem would not just be revived but would serve as the driver of the industrialization policy of his administration, in order to provide jobs for the teeming unemployed Ebonyi Youths. The Governorship hopeful further said his administration would be anchored on the people, adding that he would bring back people elements to governance. He also pledges to restore the place of Intellectuals in Governance, in order to bring deep and critical thinking to governance issues in the State. He said that with the diversity of experience he is bringing to the table like his Finance background, leadership training from one of the world elite institutions, multiple doctorate qualifications one of which is from Nigeria’s premier institution UNN, a business career spanning multiple fields such as Media, ICT, Renewable Energy, etc. He is coming prepared. POLL According to him, Our vision as a government to be anchored on three Pillars, Recovery, Rebuilding and Restoration of Ebonyi State to the original dreams of our founding fathers. His words, “My Government shall bring back the People Elements to Governance. The thrust of our Government shall be anchored on People first. “Issues around Nigeria Cement Nkalagu shall be resolved within the 1st 100 days in office. Nigerian Nkalagu shall be the driver of our Industrialization Policy “Our Administration’s job is to get Nigercem up and in production to provide needed jobs for our people in line with our People First Focus. Our vision is a government to be anchored on three Pillars, Recovery, Rebuilding and Restoration of Ebonyi State to the original dreams of our founding fathers. “We shall bring deep and critical thinking back to governance issues in Ebonyi State and restore the place of Intellectuals in Governance.” ‘PDP Still Nursing Pains Of Umahi’s Defection To… You’re Just An Attention Seeker, Pathetically Confused, PDP… He also commended the efforts of past administrations in the State. “With the present challenges facing Nigeria and Ebonyi State now, Ebonyi requires a man of ideas. It takes a man who can create wealth to manage wealth”, he said. Ezeh called on PDP to ensure that zoning is maintained in the State.