ABUJA – A group under the umbrella of 100 Women Lobby Group on Friday in Abuja stormed Transcorp Hilton the venue of the retreat on electoral reforms and constitution review for the members of National Assembly to demand immediate passage of ‘Reserved Seats Bills ‘ and inclusion of women- focused issues in the constitution. The placards carrying women said Nigeria was rated the worst performer in the West African Region when looking at the representation of women in parliament and the second-worst after Eritrea in the whole of the African continent. The National Coordinator of the group, Felicia Onibon, said Nigeria women have paid their dues in all sectors and human endeavours including politics adding that women were still being excluded in mainstream politics and governance. Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC FG, NCF Commemorate 2022 World Wetland Day She stated that the presence of few women in the National Assembly led to the proposition of critical action of promoting affirmative and opportunities for women. Felicia stated: “Today we are asking that the additional seat bill and all other gender-sensitive bills that are receiving attention at the National Assembly to get the support of all members so that Nigeria can move forward in all aspects of life. “The bills include; An Equal Opportunity Commission (Establishment ) Bill, 2020; Gender and Equal Opportunities, Abuse and Administrative Bill 2012, Affirmative Action (Equal Opportunities Bill 2015, Women Empowerment and Gender Equality Bill 2015 and Women Participation in Election Support Bills 2018. “The electoral system in Nigeria has not been fair to women. It contributes to women’s underrepresentation in Nigeria’s legislatures. “Nigeria is considered the worst performer in the West African Region when looking at the representation of women in parliament and the second-worst after Eritrea in the whole of the African continent. POLL “This is sad and does speak well of Nigeria as a nation with women occupying only 21out of 469 in the National Assembly. The situation is worse at the state level with the national percentage of the state seats being 4.5% with women occupying 45 of the 990 seats in all state House of Assembly.”