ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) cancelling the National Convention of the party earlier fixed for February 26th 2022. In place of the Convention, the party has fixed March 26, 2022 as date for its Zonal Congresses and has urged the commission to monitor the Congresses. In a letter notifying the commission of the conduct of the Zonal Congresses, and signed by Mai Mala Buni, Chairman and John James Akpanudedehe Secretary respectively of the party Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC,) the party says the notice supersedes earlier notice for the national convention with reference APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14. Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… Ebonyi Assembly Declares Deputy Speaker’s Seat Vacant,… According to Akpanudedehe, the alteration is predicated on the evaluation of the APC Constitution. The notice reads; “In furtherance to Article 85 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and compliance with Section 126 of our Party Constitution we hereby write to notify the Commission that our great Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has scheduled to hold its Zonal Congresses on Saturday 26 March, 2022 “Kindly arrange for your officials to monitor the exercise accordingly While hoping to receive your cooperation, please accept the assurances of our highest esteem”. Prior to this notice, the fate of the February 26 National Convention has been marred in controversy and confusion. POLL Daily Independent had reported exclusively a week ago that the convention would be postponed by two weeks. The paper equally reported that President Muhammadu Buhari has granted the request made by the CECPC to shift the date of the Convention. Also last December, the paper scooped that a well concealed agenda of key principals of leaders of the Caretaker Committee to succeed itself would jeopardize any call for national convention and that CECPC was staying out the tenure of the Adams Oshiomhole led APC National Working Committee NWC which elapses in June. With the the Zonal Congresses planned for March 26, it should expected that the whole of April would be spent by the CECPC entertaining petitions and treating possible appeals arising from the Zonal Congresses. That will leave the Caretaker Committee just a month grace to plan for the convention in June.