ABUJA – As part of measures to standardise abattoir operations in the nation’s capital, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) have indicated strong interest to work together on improving hygiene and meat handling practices, using advanced technologies. This move was revealed on Thursday when a team from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) paid a visit to the FCT Agriculture And Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS), in Abuja. The ARDS Mandate Secretary, Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim, expressed hope that JICA’s interest in the abattoir sector will compliment FCTA’s efforts toward meeting the desired standards in meat handling practices across the Territory. FCTA Donates Food, Provision, Learning Materials To IDP FCTA To Demolish Senate President, Speaker’s Official… Ibrahim hinted that the visit is no doubt significant in so many ways, considering the renewed interest of the Secretariat to standardize abattoir operations, by addressing the important issues of infrastructural decay, meat inspecting, pollution, sanitation as well as stamping out the use of tyres to process cow skin. According to him: “Let me use this opportunity to intimate you that my boss, the Honourable Minister of State, FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu has been a strong advocate of the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) initiative as an effective strategy in addressing our country’s developmental challenges. “JICA has no doubt proven to be worthy partners in progress, which is why I assure you of our readiness to work with you towards repositioning the Agricultural sector. ” As you undertake a visit to our abattoirs with members of my management team, I urge you to feel free to bare your minds on any issue that may require our clarifications. ” I have already directed the Director Veterinary Services to furnish me with a report on the visit to guide us on our next line of action”. POLL Earlier, the Country Representative of JICA, Sasaike Jako said hygiene is a critical problem, and the organisation is looking out for how to bring in Japanese technologies into Nigerian Abattiors. Sasaike, stated that the initiative was a product of a collaboration between the government and JICA, targeted at improving meat handling practices using advanced technologies. Similarly, Dr. Umar Haliru, a representative of JICA, commended FCTA for making JICA relevant in the development of the FCT, which paved the way for the longtime relationship between both parties. Meanwhile, the Director of Veterinary Services, ARDS, Dr. Mrs Regina Adulugba said the partnership would set a standard for what a modern abattoir should be. She explained that the structure and areas to be considered for upgrade comprised veterinary slaughter points, carcasses processing tables with running water and animal skin gas-burning points, among others.