. He Started Waging War Against Me Since He Assumed Office Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has hinted that he regretted working for Adegboyega Oyetola to become Governor of Osun in 2018. Aregbesola who dropped the bombshell at Ikire in Irewole Local Government of the state during the consultation tour and presentation of former Secretary to the Osun State Governor, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti as group’s governorship aspirant in the Saturday primary election said that he has realised his mistake that the person “we ought to put in front we neglected him and we follow a migrate and wicked soul. Mayhem In Osun: Group Demands Arrest, Prosecution Of Aregbesola Aregbesola Calls For Review Of Law On Bush Burning To ensure that the matter does not degenerate, Aregbesola explained that he begged Governor Oyetola go almost two years for an offence he never committed. According to him, “Since Oyetola assumed office, he has wage war against me like I once harm him. He claimed that I do not want him to emerge as governor and now he is the governor, what else is the problem. “I served this state with the whole of my heart, I also served Oyetola so that he can succeed me in office. “When we came to this town, Ikire for his campaign, we were drenched in rain from Akire’s palace to this place. He is now in that office, he claimed I am his enemy. Those who contested against him during our party primary, he pulled them closer while he fights me. “I sent people to help me begged that, I am not saying he should like me but he must not fight me, even if you want to fight me, don’t abuse me and destroy my legacies. POLL “All that I told and warned him not to do, was what he did. He oppose what I did, all the things I did together with him for eight years, he opposed and reverse. “He thought he can destroy me through my work, nobody was pushing him, he is pushing himself. He deliberately toes that path. He waged war against me. He refused to listen to my pleas until he get rid of me. “When I observed that he would not listen I called people together that they should start telling people that progressives family must not be destroyed. “We are the ones that bear the flag of this party, we fought for it since 2004. The owner can not stand while his possession is destroyed. Those people who don’t know how we build the party, are unpredictable. “The party chairman, Famodun, we took him from PDP he may return to that party, we must not let him lead us astray. Oyetola Releases Another N958m To Pay Pensioners In Osun JAILBREAK: Aregbesola Gives Shoot-To-Kill Order On Prison… “The leaders of the party now agreed that we should go back to where we miss the road in 2018. We realise our mistake that the person we ought to put in front, we neglected him, we followed a numbskull, ingrate and a wicked soul. “When Adeoti was angry with us, he did not abuse us. when we refuse to do his will, he protested but he never cursed us. We have realised our misdeed to him, that is why we gave him the ticket of our caucus. “Our hope is in God and the good people of Osun State. Nobody can overcome God. “It is not a sin to contest for a position in a democratic government. “The constitution of the party stipulates that after four years, we can change our candidate, but if he abides by the tenet of the party, we will support him for another term but if we see that he is doing things against the interest of the party, it the duty of the leaders and party members to vote against such person at the primary. “With joy in my heart, I present to you Adeoti. Please vote for him on Saturday” Speaking, the former SSG, Moshood Adeoti promised not to betray the people of the state.