ABUJA – With the area council elections set to kick off in the Federal Capital Territory FCT in a few hours, the Centre for Transparency Advocacy CTA, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the harmonized Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021 into law to check encumbrances towards the next general elections. According to Executive Director, CTA, Faith Nwadishi, the presidency should simply let the will of the people prevail by signing the bill into law. “Since the Electoral Act Amendment Bill has been reviewed and harmonized by the National Assembly, we the Centre for Transparency Advocacy hereby urges President Mohammadu Buhari to sign the Bill into law. This will remove most encumbrances towards the 2023 General Elections. Let the will of the people prevail,”She stated. FG Pledges Support For Girls Interested In Engineering DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit On the elections holding in the six area councils of the FCT, Nwadishi also urged the security agencies that would be deployed to the various polling units to take note of the flashpoints identified by both the police and the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC. Among the flashpoints identified by the police authorities in FCT include; Karshi, Deidei, Zuma Rock, Kabusa, Gishiri, Abaji Nebu, Yangoji, Yaba, Kwali Kwaita, Mate, Azam, Kuje Pegi and Bwari. CTA which described the offseason election in FCT as critical noted that an atmosphere of peace and security would enable the voters to come out en masse to exercise their franchise. The council election is expected to hold in six Area Councils to fill empty seats in 68 constituencies, including six chairmanships and 62 councillorships. Fourteen political parties, which will be fielding candidates for the slots, would be seeking the votes of 1,373,492 registered voters in the FCT. POLL In the FCT’s 68 constituencies, 55 candidates are vying for the role of Chairman, while 363 candidates are vying for the position of Councillors. “So far CTA commends the relatively peaceful situation prevailing in the FCT. Despite this seeming quietness, CTA urges security agencies especially the police not to let its guards down but to double efforts to nip any security breach in the bud especially as we approach election day tomorrow. “We note that there is better coordination amongst the security personnel and the police as the leader of the security team have assured of adequate security and coordination across the polling units. To this effect, hotlines have been released. “However, these following locations have been identified by the police as election flashpoints; Karshi, Deidei, Zuma Rock, Kabusa, Gishiri, Abaji Nebu, Yangoji, Yaba, Kwali Kwaita, Mate, Azam, Kuje Pegi and Bwari,” Executive Director, CTA, Nwadishi said. The civil society also urged the voting public not to fall prey to vote-buying but to use their conscience in voting candidates of their choice. Mass Construction: Lagos Losing Over N4trn To Traffic Gridlock APC Protecting Those Behind Adulterated Fuel Importation,… It hailed INEC for its preparedness and readiness to conduct the poll.