ABUJA – Challenges thrown up in the education sector by the emergence of COVID -19, may see the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) training over 45,000 teachers on digital literacy and remote learning in the contemporary world. Registrar/Chief Executive of TRCN, Prof. Josiah Olusegun Ajiboye, made the information public on Thursday in Abuja, where he noted that the 45,000 teachers will be drawn from 24 states. He said efforts are on to cover the remaining states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). NYSC Appeals For Memoranda In Support Of Trust Fund PTI Inducts Her First Set of Skill Academy Trainees Ajiboye explained that the overall objective of the programme is to bridge the gap created by the outbreak of the pandemic that adversely affected the education system. It is also aimed at providing capacity development opportunities to teachers in the deployment of technology, among others. His words: ” The Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria as a lead agency in the Teacher Training Sub-Committee of the Global Partnership for Education COVID-19 response programme through the support of UNICEF, is embarking on digital literacy training and remote learning for 30,000 teachers across 16 focal states namely Benue, Bauchi, Ebonyi, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kebbi, Kastina, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara. “The training is designed to take place in four tranches in Benue, Enugu Kaduna and Sokoto states simultaneously at the first phase. “Each tranche of the training involves 7,500 teachers. The first stage of this project was the training of 480 master trainers who be serving as facilitators in the upcoming training across these locations. The master trainers were trained in November 2021 across the selected states. “Furthermore, at the completion of the circle of 16 focal states, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu had graciously extended the training to additional 15000 teachers who will be trained in eight focal states namely, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Ekiti, Lagos, Osun, Oyo and Rivers. POLL “These additional states will be the 4th phase of the GPE teacher training programme.”