Pastor Simeon Afolabi, Serving Overseer of First Love Assembly, clocked 60 this week. Prior to this, he had a media chat at the church in Maryland, Lagos, with journalists which brought forward memories of his pastoral calling, his love for revival, the exigency of building the younger generation and teachings affecting the church. CHINYERE ABIAZIEM brings the excerpts: How did First Love Assembly begin? First Love Assembly started in November 1998. It didn’t start as First Love Assembly; it started as Revival People’s Church. When we started, it started as Revival People’s Church and it changed in 2007. It was when we moved to a new location – we changed physical location then we changed name also. The reason for change of name was spiritual and a product of exigency. When we were bearing Revival People’s Church, some people didn’t have the right sequence in the name. Some people will call it Revival Peoples Church, some will say People’s Revival Church, that time too we have many churches with revival connotation. So you couldn’t tell what is what, so I was busy looking for revivals and name so easy to call and identify with. As they say the last straw that broke the camel’s back was in 2006. I went to Calabar. I was invited by the wife of the then governor, Onari Duke. There was a group of women who attended a meeting of a female group, and they have their programme. I was the guest speaker. When they invited me to Calabar, all the who is who was there, so a woman was anchoring, she was introducing the guest speaker and said Pastor Simeon Afolabi, the pastor of Revival People’s Party and that day I said we have to change it. I guess because she was in the environment of politicians and the only thing that can come up was political party’s name. So we had to change the name. The idea that was behind the change was revival. The talks about bringing back things to an earlier state. If a chair’s leg is broken, you need to repair it, when you do, it means you have brought it back to the original state. That is the idea of revival. I am a revival person, I don’t want to miss the touch with revival. So, I needed a name that is close to that and yet easy to come by. The name I could think was First Love, that is the kind of love that the first century church had that nothing mattered to them than the Lord. That was first love, the kind of love the disciples had. St. Paul’s Church, Ebute-Metta, Battles Land Grabbers Defilement You left school in 1987 and joined the work of the ministry in 1988. That was so close. How were you so sure that you heard God? One thing about the call of God is your purpose, it doesn’t have to be a call into the ministry. Apart from the inner witness, there is always an inner witness in people concerning what their purpose is, you also have that unsolicited endorsement. Unsolicited calling where people just make innocent comment. I finished my Cambridge A’ level in 1981 at the school of basic studies, Ilorin. I did that between 1979 and 1981. I didn’t get into the university until 1982. Between 1979 and 82 I did auxiliary teaching. There used to be auxiliary teachers in those days, people who did not go to teachers training were recruited because there was a shortfall of teachers. I picked up a job as an auxiliary teacher in a village called Elerinjare in Kwara State. The principal of the school that time was one Mr. Adeoye. I used to gather the students at the Fellowship of Christian Students, the little I knew then I taught them. One day the principal of the school attended the fellowship, I don’t know what I was preaching then, after the fellowship he called me and said Simeon, if you continue this way you would make a good preacher one day. I can’t tell what he saw, that was someone who was perhaps perceiving the grace. So when you begin to see endorsement without asking for it – but if you go about seeking for endorsement, people will flatter you. You will ask how was my preaching today. Of course, they would say fantastic! When you have feedbacks from people you have not asked or those you are not acquainted with. Sometimes we carry things we don’t even know are there, it takes other people to help us fish it out. So whatever my principal heard, I didn’t know but comments like that can show where the Lord wants you to go. You seem to act as a bridge between the older generation and the younger generation. What do you want the younger people to learn and are you fulfilled? I am a fulfilled person, absolutely. When I talk about fulfilment, not in terms of material accusation or fat bank account that is not where fulfilment is. It is amazing for instance we were sharing in the office, it’s amazing to see children you were carrying on your shoulders, spiritually, physically, now doing fantastically well in various places. To me that is fulfilment. In the work of the ministry someone says the book you wrote blessed me, the devotional blessed me. These things bring fulfillment. One thing I have for young people is patience. One thing I learn at 60 is that the principle of compound interest works. At a time in your life things begging to compound, good or bad. If you labour in the scripture, things will begin to compound, the children physically, spiritually raised will begin to talk to the enemy at the gate. The relationships you have built begin to pay back. I will encourage the younger generation on patience. Anything that is worthwhile takes a while, people are in a hurry to make name, to build successful ministry, these things take time, the Bible says he who is hasty to be successful will not be innocent, they will put hands into things. So successful life takes a lot of patience. We want to get in one day what our forbearers got in 40 years, we will run into trouble. On the state of the nation, what is your opinion on Christian participation in politics? POLL Christian participation at this point is a task that must be done. As part of the incomplete upbringing we had, there are lots of things we got wrong. If I wasn’t a pastor I probably have been a journalist or a lawyer, these fields fascinate me. Reason I didn’t read law in those days was that they said all lawyers are liars. Because I want to be a Christian, I avoided law. The same thing they said about politics, they said you cannot be a Christian and in politics, so we left politics in the hands of the occultists, unbelievers and when they make policies, the policies are binding and we start complaining. Christians need to know that it takes power to change policies. You can cry till tomorrow. From politics you have power and with power you make policies. The only way those policies Christians are not comfortable with can be corrected is when we have power, it is because our political literacy is nil, that is why every aspect of the country is crying for change. What is your take on the idea of first fruit? One thing about first fruit, let’s get the picture right. There are things you don’t make into law, there are things you don’t even teach, you wait for people to grow into it, to discover them. If the first fruit is taught in enriching the church or enriching the pastor, there is a problem there. Do we have the mention of the first fruit in the Bible? The answer is yes. In Proverbs, the Bible says honour the Lord with your first fruits… I always believe whether you take it verbatim or not, the idea of first fruit is putting God first in your finances. How you want to go about it, let the Lord instruct you. There are people without teaching it who have always honoured the Lord with their first fruits. I have never made it as a rule but whenever they do it or not, what that place is saying is putting God first in your finances. While I was growing up as a little Baptist boy, sometimes at the beginning of harvest, you just come to church and you see tubers of yam, maize on the altar. I think the idea is respecting the Lord, giving the Lord the first position, making Him the number one. One thing I would say is this, if you do that, if it is done in genuine spirit, God will not owe anyone. The problem I have is when you begin to threaten people that if you don’t tithe, things will be tight for you, or that you won’t make heaven because the Bible says you rob me in tithe and offering and robbers will not make heaven. You can build doctrines around that, then you would make slaves out of people. If someone now says if I don’t do it now they will mark me, it’s already a burden and you are no longer a cheerful giver and there is no reward for that.