LAGOS  – Investors in the nation’s economy have implored government to refocus attention on the non-oil export sector which holds enormous potentials to boost the nation’s economy They advocated the need for total reorientation on the exercise of regulatory authorities in the country in order to pave way for businesses to thrive in Nigeria. They further called on the country major non-oil export finance agency – the Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) to float a special fund to boost the sector. Arla Partners Tolaram On Kaduna Commercial Dairy Farm We Are Working To Improve The Capital Market – SEC They lamented that there are also processes of product certifications that take so long on the regulatory queues in Nigeria, while businesses from outside the country with swift regulatory regimes will then bring the same products into the country to sell. They told Daily Independent that the export flow as regards payment and verification is extremely cumbersome; adding that exporters complained about the “imposition of the Nigerian Autonomous Foreign Exchange Fixing (NAFEX) rate on export proceeds, which limits their access to foreign exchange and their inability to utilise their export proceeds They advocated more prudent spending and greater transparency as well as stable macroeconomic environment and policies like tariffs, quotas, subsidies and non-tariff barriers which protect infant industries to enable them create jobs in the country. Professor Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President SAN, after receiving a recent report of an Ad-Hoc Committee of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council, PEBEC, on Agro-Export and the presentation of a National Action Plan 7.0 at the Presidential Villa, noted that there is a problem “if people who want to export cannot export due to what seems like too many regulations. “There are too many regulatory requirements. Too many regulations kill output. We have to take a second look at how we regulate. Over-regulation is killing businesses. It kills investments. An agric exporter can’t export perishable produce after months” POLL He lamented that there are also processes of product certifications that take so long on the regulatory queues in Nigeria, while businesses from outside the country with swift regulatory regimes will then bring the same products into the country to sell. “Because our certification processes are slow, others from outside nations (from neighbouring countries based on an ECOWAS agreement) with faster processes can bring their products and sell here, while our own businesses are still on the queues of regulatory agencies,” the VP observed. Earlier, the PEBEC Secretariat had presented a report of the Ad-Hoc Com Business Environment Council on Agro-Export where it was revealed among others that: The exportation flow as regards payment and verificamittee of the Presidential Enabling tion is extremely cumbersome; That exporters complained about the “imposition of the NAFEX rate on export proceeds, which limits their access to foreign exchange and their inability to utilise their export proceeds. (For instance, dollars domiciled in exporters accounts cannot be utilised for freight payment for export); There were “multiple physical cargo examinations by Pre-shipment Inspection Agencies”; There were also “multiple and sometimes overlapping documentation requirements” from government regulatory agencies. The Council, therefore, resolved to approve an Agro-Export Action Plan that will remedy the situation and also approved a 60-day National Action Plan 7.0 that continues the ease of doing business reforms of the Buhari administration. The Plan kicks off on February 7, 2022. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO ,Centre For The Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE), and former in chats with Daily Independent , said the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilization impacted negatively on non-oil export sector which holds enormous potentials to boost the economy. Casava Set To Revolutionalise Microinsurance Space, Secures $4m… Polish Investors Eye Nigeria For Investment Opportunity –… He also emphasised that over-regulation kills investments, adding that an agric exporter can’t export perishable produce after months “Over-regulation is killing investments because our certification processes are slow, others from outside nations from neighbouring countries based on an ECOWAS agreement with faster processes can easily bring their products and sell here, while our own businesses are still on the queues of regulatory agencies” He added: “Liquidity challenges in the foreign exchange market impacting adversely on manufacturing output, security concerns affecting agricultural output, climate change effects on agricultural production. There are increasing cases of flooding and desertification in many parts of the country. These have negative impact on agricultural output”. Dr. Yusuf, who described Nigeria as a thriving investment destination for exporters, urged the Federal Government to introduce policies that will resolve structural constraints affecting productivity in the agricultural value chain, high transportation costs affecting distribution costs across the country. This, he said, is also reflected in the huge differential between farm gate prices and market prices. “Monetization of fiscal deficit (CBN financing of deficit) is highly inflationary because of the liquidity injection effects on the economy. This becomes worrisome when statutory thresholds are exceeded. “High transactions cost at the nations ports increases production and operating costs of businesses, high energy cost as well as high import duty on intermediate goods and raw materials”. “To tame the current export challenges pressure, government need to reform the foreign exchange market to stabilise the exchange rate and reduce volatility,address forex liquidity issues through appropriate policy measures,security concerns causing disruption to agricultural activities as well as productivity issues in the real sector of the economy”, he said. Friday Udoh, Director of Emerging knowledge , Policy and Partnership, Institute of Professional Economists and Public policy Management, in a chat with our correspondent, said: “As the government pursues its economic diversification agenda, and as the future of the oil economy looked bleak, this is the right time for the investors in the country to be nurtured and supported by the government for them not to remain infants forever. “Governments must at the same time continue to remove the hurdles to competitiveness for instance poor infrastructure, unfriendly regulations, electricity, access to affordably finance He said there was need for a network of roads, bridges and rail that will facilitate the movement of goods and people alongside building electricity plants to power factories and the broadband networks that lubricate modern business. He noted that it was necessary to develop sites with dedicated infrastructural and regulatory structures like special economic zones and shared facilities for small businesses. He added: “Governments need to provide a stable macroeconomic environment which avoids and smoothens out volatility in prices, sharp deteriorations in the current account and budget deficits and of course, rapid accumulation in debt burdens. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC),told Daily Independent that: “Governments must take policy actions to create an environment in which businesses can thrive. To start with, we must adopt the right type of macroeconomic and industrial policies. “It would also be good for them to study the reasons why the previous trading blocs did not enable intra-Africa trade to exceed 15% of total trade and what can be done differently. These problems don’t suddenly disappear under AfCFTA “If I have to spend $10 on port charges to export cement while someone on Europe spends $3, then the European company already has a $7 cost advantage relative to an African producer. Similarly, if I spend $8 per unit of gas while someone in America spends $3, then they already have a $5 cost advantage.By the time you look at a number of these examples you will easily be looking at a $20 cost disadvantage “It is therefore, vital for governments to continuously focus on removing barriers to competitiveness. That is the real ease of doing business, not how many days it takes to register a company” Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), in a chat with Daily Independent, said manufacturing is critical to economic transformation of Nigeria. He said: “Federal Government should initiate policies that would boost manufacturing in the country as the sector has been key in adding value to agricultural products and minerals and has also been a major motor of economic growth because it boosts productivity. “Equally compelling from the perspective of Nigeria which has a large population is that manufacturing has the potential to create a large number of sustainable jobs. “Given the large number of entrants into the workforce every year and the important role of employment in reducing poverty, there is no doubt at all that industrialization must remain a key priority for Nigeria” An executive director of a new generation bank, who craves anonymity, told Daily Independent that, “There is a lot of revenue to be generated in this country if the government will focus on non-oil products. “To shore up non-oil exports, we must shift from the exportation of raw materials to semi-finished goods with higher value, create good bilateral relationships that encourage trade, not just imports, an enabling environment for business growth and institute policies that favour growth in critical sectors”