LAGOS  – Nigeria spends a relatively small proportion of national income, translating to about 4 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on health against the agreed 15 per cent at the 2001 Abuja Declaration. Dr. Temitope Falaiye, Head, Medical Services, Leadway Health, who stated this at a virtual Leadway Assurance Media trainingforinsurancejournalists inLagosrecently, stressedthatout-of-pocket expenditure on health in Nigeria is among the highest in the world put at 77.23per cent of total health expenditure and the highest in Africa. He added that a voluntary National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) exists in Nigeria, but covers less than 5 per cent of the population, saying, Nigeria’s informal economy, which accounts for more than 60 per cent of its total gross domestic product (GDP) is still largely uncovered. Wife Reportedly Stabs Husband’s Nephew Over Broken Mirror Analysing The Retaining, Removal Of Nigeria’s Oil Subsidy He stated: “To bridge the coverage gap, several states have commenced the establishment of State Health Insurance Schemes. Presently, 19 states are at various stages of their implementation journey. “Anambra, Delta and Lagos states have particularly made significant progress in enrollment. Private health insurance accounts for less than 3per cent of the Nigerian population,” he pointed out. Explaining that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) as strategies will depend on local circumstances, he said, improving Universal Health Coverage requires addressing building blocks of health systems with a proper roadmap from policy, implementation and monitoring. Highlighting the challenges of universal health coverage in Nigeria,he listed underfunding and skewed funding allocation in favour of secondary and tertiary care as against primary healthcare, as well as poor public financial management. Others, he listed, included, “limited political commitment to health and primary healthcare, poor policy formulation, lack of clarity on roles and responsibilities at different levels of the system, lack of measures to assess quality of care, lack of confidence in healthcare systems and human resource shortages (workforce).” POLL On recommendation, he advocated for diversification of sources of funding, increased funding for primary healthcare services through public-private partnership, even as he suggested State funded private health insurance in collaboration with private Health Management Organisations (HMOs) Calling for better funding/ incentives for health providers in rural communities, he stated that there must be fraud prevention and systems to check corruption. Stating that improved gov