A group, Ekiti K’oya Movement, has the  Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC) to test run the new Electoral Bill with the June18 Governorship election in Ekiti . The  group, in a statement by its spokesman, Jamiu Adeyanju hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the new  Law. The political  pressure group said  using the ICT-inclined law  as a template  would  raise the  hope of having credible poll in Nigeria. [UPDATE] Lagos State PDP Congress: Diri Charges Delegates On… Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… He stated that signing had given Ekiti voters a respite and boost their  expectations that  the Social Democratic Party’s candidate, Engr Segun Oni and the most popular canndidate, would emerge victorious in the impending election. Adeyanju said sanity would now return to the country’s electoral system with the granting of legal backing to the use of Smart Card Readers, electronic transmission of results and total digitisation of electioneering process. He said: “Consequently, ahead of the June 18, 2022 governorship election in our dear state, we urge INEC to efficiently deploy the application of the new provisions of the Electoral Act to ensure a free, fair, transparent and peaceful election. “We are aware if the grand plot by the ruling APC to rig the election because if the noticeable lapses in our electoral system. But with this ICT-inclined law, their sinister motives have been aborted and our people can now vote for their preferred candidate, Engr Segun Oni. “We are encouraged that the new legal framework for elections will help to loud the new sing-song in town among the populace that Ekiti Koya, O To Ge (Enough Is Enough, No More Enslavement) from APC and the People’s Democratic Party”. POLL Adeyanju added that the people of Ekiti have pitched their tents with Oni of the SDP as the best and only credible alternative among the array of governorship candidates scrambling for the reverred seat.b The Ekiti K’oya Publicist, added that  Oni’s solid and robust political and administrative  antecedents and the inclusive government he operated during his first tenure between 2007-2010, had endeared him to  electorate, who are eagerly waiting to pay him back for his good deeds. “We have no doubt that with the assurances from INEC to switch to full operation of the new Act, the people of Ekiti will come en masse to elect Segun Oni on the SDP as their preferred candidate and governor. “We wish to commend President Muhammadu Buhari over the signing of the Electoral Act 2022  into law. The new law would undoubtedly help to strengthen our democracy and guarantee credible elections and a transparent electoral process. “The introduction of reformative and progressive clauses in the new electoral act represent a major win for the Independent National Electoral Commission, political parties and the electorate and it will to fight voter apathy”.