. Nigeria’s Rapid Social, Political Development In Hands of Youths ABUJA: A few days after former President Olusegun Obasanjo urged older politicians to allow the younger Nigerians to vie for president, the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has said that the 2023 presidential race must be about the emergence of young, vibrant and educated Nigerian leaders. He urged that the polls “must usher an era of rapid social and physical development in the country and this can only be realised through the emergence of young, vibrant and highly educated President and other elected officials.” 2023: NNPP Chieftain, Majasan, Joins Senatorial Race In Ondo Private: 2023: Ganduje Under Fire Over Remarks About Tinubu A statement by The Nigeria Agenda (TNA) Chief Advocate, Niyi Akinsiju, in Abuja, said that Governor Bello made the remarks on Wednesday when he received the advocacy team of the group which was on a visit to the state. Represented at the event by the Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Matane, the Niger State Governor who expressed his support for the issues and values being canvassed by TNA, enjoined all political parties “to make sure only young, vibrant and educated candidates emerged on their respective platforms. This has become important because of the need to deliberately tap into the large population of young Nigerians that are highly educated, vibrant and have impressive records of experience in government. And capable of unlocking the potential of the country for rapid social and physical development.” He also added that “for Nigerians to imbibe values that strengthen national unity, cross-ethnic and religious bonding and good neighbourliness, the Governor said: “The Government of Niger state supports the values being propagated by The Nigeria Agenda and will actively back the national conversation the advocacy team is engendering among Nigerians. “The messages of unity and politics devoid of ethnic and religious biases in the country as being amplified by The Nigeria Agenda are germane to strengthening the country and facilitating a class of leadership that will reflect the diversities of Nigeria and aggregate our differences for positive development rather than the needless conflicts that had characterised and distracted us collectively in our journey to a highly developed economic, social and political nation.” POLL The Niger state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mohammed Idris, who is a member of The Nigeria Agenda advocacy group, highlighted the role of the group as it takes to trigger a Nigerian social and political renaissance through citizens’ sensitisation. He disclosed that “At the heart of the advocacy of The Nigeria Agenda is the objective of facilitating linkage between citizens and leadership recruitments. And in so doing, enable an empowered and well-motivated citizens that can make leadership accountable to them,” the Commissioner said.