SYLVESTER ENOGHASE Regional economic engagement within Nigeria may gain increasing importance owing to several factors that are currently in play, including strategies to diversify national value chains and locate such value chains nearer industrial locations. These developments will offer Nigeria a chance to enhance its low levels of regional economic engagement and capitalise on significant unrealised development opportunities for all the sectors of the economy. Applauding BUA Group Industrialisation Drive In Deepening Food… SON, NFIU Collaborate Against Fake Products In Nigeria These were the assertions by Comrade Festus Osifo, President of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), when he argued that oil & gas industry accounts for more than 90% of the country’s exports and 80% of the Federal Government’s revenue, adding that the good provision in the PIA, for instance is about development of oil & gas which will boost industrialisation of the economy “Before now our old laws, the Petroleum Act of 1959 did not make any provision relating to gas, but in the current PIA, we have a provision, about 50 sections of the PIA, dedicated to gas that will boost the industrial growth of the nation’s economy” Against the foregoing background, it is not surprising that in his address to the National Executive Council (NEC) Meeting in Lagos on February 17, 2022, that Comrade Festus Osifo, President of the association highlighted some of the challenges facing the nation, and which are invariably impacting the operations of the Oil and Gas Industry and by extension, activities of PENGASSAN. While he explained that after the last NEC meeting in Benin, in July 2021, to the NEC meeting in Lagos on February 17, 2022 as earlier noted, and which is unarguably the NEC meeting of the Association in the year 2022, Osifo noted that the association has within this period embarked on engagements with the Federal Government, Management and members on a number of industrial relations issues of which some were considered to be unethical and anti-worker’s policies, and resolved that “As it is in our mandate, we are poised to do all we can to ensure that our members benefit from the Government’s policies in the Oil and Gas Industry and that such policies engender economic growth for our companies, the industry, and the country as a whole. He added, “Recently, as you all know, some branches under the Federal Government Agencies were merged following the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). I must report to NEC that the merger did not affect our members or the association negatively. Though the transition is still on-going. POLL In the same vein, he said, “Furthermore, towards providing a befitting work environment for our Staff and members alike, we recently approved the relocation of the Port Harcourt Zonal Office to the FOJ Resource and Events Center in Port Harcourt, Rivers State and are following up to fully utilise the facility for other commercial activities which shall serve as a revenue generation to us. Notwithstanding challenges that impacted on the association within the period under review, Osifo noted that laudable successes were recorded within the union for its betterment. He recounted, “In our quest towards repositioning of our Association, a lot of successes have been achieved in the areas of Collective Bargaining Agreement and social dialogue mechanisms with our stakeholders and other social partners in the sector. Conditions of Employment, Compensation and Benefits have been enhanced through constructive engagement and innovative compensation models. “We are also in the process of making the needed restructuring with regards to our employees in the areas of review and proper placement, promotion, negotiation, redeployment, and retraining for improved productivity. To this end, the president assured that the leadership of the association under his watch is focused on its commitment to strengthening its image in order to maintain its relevance, not just in the Oil and Gas industry in particular, but the Nation as a whole, and stated that affiliates of the association must remain committed to the ideals of pragmatic unionism while living up to the expectations as the senior staff and strategic players in the Oil and Gas industry. Dangote Petrochemicals Is Fueling Economic Growth Momentum Of… How Sourcing Forex By Manufacturers Further Dipped In Q4 : 2021–… Ostensibly interpreting the roadmap on how the goals of the association during the year can be achieved, Osifo said: “As part of our 2022 roadmap, we shall intensify efforts and advocacies in confronting some Management and organisations that fail to honour Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) entered into with the workers with all legal and constitutional means at our disposal. “To this respect, branches should furnish the National Secretariat with details of any reneging and uncooperative Management for immediate action”. He added that the association would be focused and committed to bequeath a legacy of a united and cohesive PENGASSAN, where members’ jobs, welfare and well-being shall be paramount. He assured that progression towards achieving industrial harmony in the industry shall be sustained, and that the association shall continue to initiate moves to accommodate all members and their divergent views, while urging members to support the ongoing efforts by the leadership of the Association. To this end, he equally appealed to all oil & gas workers to show support, commitment and respect to all lawful directives from the relevant organs of the Association as it helps to strengthen the association and its constitution. On the state of the nation, Osifo bemoaned some of the issues that are inherent in corrupt tendencies among leaders, failed power target, infrastructural decay, poverty and unemployment, electoral reform, insecurity, education crisis and looming food crisis among other socio-economic issues. On the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), Osifo said with the Act into law, that the concern of the Association has unarguably being centered on the issue of transparency given the manner the executive arm of government is handling its implementation process. Sequel to the distrustful disposition which the executive arm of government are exhibiting towards the implementation of the Act, Osifo said, “PENGASSAN cannot, but expressed its concerns on some areas of the implementation, and assured that the association will continue to reiterate that it will not compromise on its concerns on matters that bother on Job Security, Staff Pension and Gratuity, Conditions of Service and other social obligations. “We are keenly watching on the planned review of the Act by the Federal Government, coming just a few months after it was signed into law. While noting that reviews are part of strengthening a process or law to make it more effective, the union however warn that such should not be politically motivated. Also, inasmuch as the union is unarguably beleaguered by challenges both from within, and at the national level, Osifo was upbeat in his address that the journey has not been an easy one but that its commitment, determination, passion, support of its members, and that God Almighty have kept the association going. He noted that members of the association will continue to appraise policies that affect the industry and the Nation at large as it is important that the tempo of its advocacies, engagements, collaborations and partnerships in challenging some inimical policies inherent in its sector and that of the nation are sustained. While expressing unalloyed concern towards the betterment of the industry, Osifo advised that to achieve the desired objectives of the association that there is need for internal cohesion, data driven approach, proper and accurate communication, and respect for leaders of the association at various levels as well as members’ undiminished support, noting that the most critical is that of imbibing and living the message in our Solidarity Anthem, which is render thus: ‘’When the Union’s inspiration through the workers’ blood shall run, there can be no power greater anywhere beneath the sun, yet what force on earth is weaker than the feeble strength of one but the Union makes us strong.”