Paris Saint-Germain have offered Kylian Mbappe a contract that would make him the highest paid footballer on the planet in a bid to keep him at the Parc des Princes. The 23-year-old has just four months left to run on his current deal, and is currently free to speak to other clubs across Europe over a free transfer. The striker has been the target of interest from Real Madrid, who made two bids for the France international last summer, both of which were turned down by PSG’s owners. Arsenal Rejected Aubameyang-Mauro Icardi Swap Deal Benzema still Doubtful For First Leg Against PSG And according to the Independent, the Ligue 1 giants are ready to make him the highest-paid player in the world by offering him a deal well in excess of £500,000-a-week. The report suggests that the figure is much closer to £1million, one that the LaLiga club would have no chance of getting close to. Mbappe’s stature as one of the world’s best was on show on Tuesday when he grabbed a 90th minute winner for PSG against Real Madrid in the first-leg of their Champions League last-16 clash. The publication reports that a meeting was held between the French club and some of Mbappe’s representatives on the Wednesday morning. Part of the meeting was used to discredit the merits of Real Madrid’s current situation on the pitch being a viable option to further Mbappe’s career. Real Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti was quick to praise Mbappe after his side’s defeat in the French capital. POLL ‘Mbappe is the best player in European football,’ Ancelotti said. ‘Mbappe is unstoppable, we have tried to control him. Militao has done very well, but he is a player who always invents something.’ Producing a mega-money deal for Mbappe could have a knock-on effect on other potential dealings next summer for PSG. Sportsmail reported earlier this week that the club were looking to tempt Paul Pogba back across the channel on a free transfer, but funds for that deal would be impacted should Mbappe say yes to the deal that has been placed in front of him.