Engr. (Dr.) Valentine Oluwaseyi Buraimoh is the Chairman of Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area in Lagos. In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he claims that no political party can defeat APC in Lagos because it has performed brilliantly well. He also spoke on local government autonomy and other issues and other matters. Excerpts: There is a clamour for local government autonomy across the country, are you in support of this? Most people generally misconstrue local government workings. Though we are the third tier of government, we also have our laws as enshrined in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Even at that, there are rules and regulations that are laid down by the constitution to be followed by local governments. If you know your rights as chairman of a local government area and you know why you’re there, I don’t think there’s any need to clamour for autonomy. Liverpool Win Carabao Cup Group Alleges Smear Campaign Against Akpabio The chairman is there by the votes of the people and the constitution is clear about our roles. Unfortunately, some of us will not even take time to study the constitution to know the powers of local governments. As an executive chairman, you must know your rights and limitations and I can tell you for free that in Lagos State, we are given free hand to work within the constitutional framework. I don’t know about other states. If you say there’s local government autonomy in Lagos State, do you as a local government chairman get direct allocation from the federation account? Whether we get it directly or not from the federation account is not important because so long you have what is allocated to your local government, it does not matter if we get it through the state. What is important is that we have it as and when due, and if they’re issues, everything will be made clear by the relevant bodies by giving you details of the fund, and it is working for us here in Lagos State. What have been your challenges as the chairman of Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area in the past five years? POLL We have plenty wants but limited resources. In spite of the limited resources, we have been able to provide quality services to the people of my local government such as health, education, security, agriculture, welfare, etc. Our health care facilities are the best in the country. We met 24 Schools in bad shapes and, as I speak with you now, we have been able to change the outlook of 22 out of the 24 we met to a world standard with modern facilities and well trained teachers. That is why I said no party can defeat APC in Lagos State. Since the inception of Asiwaju, it might interest you to know that other states in the federation are always trooping to Lagos State to copy our models of development. In fact, APC is the party to beat because the party has done better than any other party in all areas of life – education, welfare, infrastructure, security, agriculture, you name it. On the Apapa road you mentioned, work is ongoing and the quality of work going on there is not a thing you rush to meet with expectation of the people; the result will be a durable road that all will be proud of. Are you satisfied with your achievements over the past five years in office? I cannot say I am satisfied. I still have a lot to do and offer. Am still planning to building a 4-storey building called Association Building that will accommodate all the staff, that will also have ITC department here at the council that I want to develop, so that once you’re in Amuwo Odofin Council, you can have free access to it. Those are some of the many projects I want to complete before I leave office. What is your take on power shift to the South and which part of the South should it shift to? I am of the strong view that power must shift to the South. Of course, the North has had their fair share of power and it should move to the South. I mean, South- East, South-South and South-West. Out of the three zones in the South, South-West should be given the chance to produce the president in 2023. The reason is simple: we’re in the majority and the clamour is for the South-West, which has been showing interest in it before any other. Nevertheless, the issue will be settled during the convention. It’s a common fact among all, that the South-West must be in power in 2023. Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… NCDMB Stakeholders’ Tour Berths Akwa Ibom Don’t you think it will be unfair for the South- West to produce the president in 2023 when there’s is a zone in the South that has not been given the opportunity to produce the president of Nigeria for many years? It’s just the political calculation and, at a point in time, it’s where it suits that it will be given to. A time would come it would be given to the Southern zone you’re referring to. I believe we’re all Nigerians, and there should be no inequality.