—As Forum Of Ex- Reps Members Call For Internal Democracy ABUJA – Honourable Emeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State, Education has challenged Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) to ensure transparency in the processes leading to the National Convention and the Convention proper. He said a transparent process before and during the convention is the only antidote to possible disintegration and urged that everything must be done to keep the party united, strong and virile ahead of 2023. Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… Conte Hints At Surprise Tottenham Role For Dejan Kulusevski The former lawmaker who addressed. his former colleagues in Abuja said the party cannot afford to ignore processes that improve the cohesion of its members and commended the forum for coming together as a unit. Similarly, forum members have called on the leadership of the party to ensure the sustainability of internal democracy in the ruling party. In a Communique issued by the Forum and signed by its Protem Chairman, Ibrahim Zailani, the Forum said it is in the progressive interest of the party to ensure that internal democracy reigns supreme. “We reviewed the current state of our great party, the All Progressives Congress and called on the Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee to ensure that internal democracy is sustained in the party”. While commending the Federal Government on how well it had gone in tackling insecurity, economic crisis and anti-corruption in the country, the Forum urged it to do more in order to enhance peace and development. POLL The communique called on delegates to the party’s National Convention scheduled to hold February 26 to ensure that only credible and visionary leaders are voted to occupy offices in the new NWC to ensure proper repositioning of the party. The Forum said it remained committed to deepening democracy in the country and the West African sub-region and condemned the current wave of forceful removal of democratically elected governments in the sub-region. It said the coups in Mali and Burkina Faso were unacceptable and should be condemned by all.