Comrade Razaq Olokoba, human rights activist and political analyst, in this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, says the wisdom behind the power shift agreement is to strengthen the unity of the country. He argues that it would be a political miscalculation for anybody preaching that power should remain permanently in the north. Excerpts: Theagitationforpowershiftfromthenorthto the south has been very loud in recent times. What is your take on the issue? This is not the first time we would be lending our voice to the wisdom behind the power shift. We have contributed to it severally and we have reiterated the need for it and for the umpteen times, we are saying it is the best political option for our country at the moment. Group Petitions APC Leadership, Accuses Akpabio Of Anti-Party… MURIC Berated Over Call To Rule Out Osinbajo, Southern… Can you expatiate more on this? It is on record that in the past, we have pointed out several reasons why there must be a power shift. One of the reasons we have cited was the need for the country to continue to promote the unity of the people of Nigeria. We know that Nigeria is a nation of different identities. And to that extent, there is the need to recognise those differences. And the best way to recognise those differences is to run a system that will give everybody a sense of belonging in terms of how our resources are distributed and in terms of how powers are shared. And presiding over Nigeria is another fundamental way of giving the people a sense of belonging and that is why people who designed rotation as a good political system did so. In Nigeria, even without expressing it, every ethnic group, every region has what it is contributing to the relationship. And it is glaring that leaders in the country are also aware of that fact. That is why, when some people are saying something contrary, the elders should educate them. For instance, there is a region that has become the pocket for Nigeria in terms of tapping into its resources to run our economy. There are regions that their resources, if invested correctly, can also run our economy. There are regions where the economy of the nation is in their hands. There are also some regions by their own cultural nature that have remained the only region that stands out as home to every Nigerian. There is a region like that. And there is a region, whose strength is its number. Its own strength is numerical. So how exactly does everything you have said relates to the power shift we are talking about? POLL If you put all these together, it should be a good thing for Nigeria and not a barrier or burden to us. And that is the reason our brothers in the north should realise that in the modern world, numerical strength is no longer used to oppress other ethnic groups. What we are saying is that there is no region in Nigeria that is not above 25 million in population. And that is more than half of the countries in Europe. There are countries in Europe that are not more than 10 million or 15 million in population. So, if you have a region with just 25 million in Nigeria, that would be the least region in the country today. If we have our brothers in the north, who have the highest number of people today, they must use that strength to promote unity. They must use that strength to distribute power for the unity and survival of the country as a united nation. We can count several nations in the world today that used their numerical strength to perpetuate themselves in power in the past. But nobody does that again today. And that is why it is important to educate ourselves with this reality that if the power goes to the north, it is not as if they understand governance more than the rest of the regions. But it is just that every region should create that impression that I am part of his country. That is the essence. And that is why it would be a political miscalculation for anybody preaching that power should remain permanently in the north. And in most cases where crisis arises, that is the way some people murder democracy. These are types of indices that bring about the death of democracy in some climes. It is not only when we have coup that democracy can be murdered. Democracy can be murdered when you breach agreement. When you don’t recognise the need for other regions to have a sense of belonging to occupy position of power, you have murdered democracy. From this analysis, we should be realistic to understand that every region has its own capacity to have an edge over other regions. If the North’s strength is numerical, others’ can be economy, while others’ can be resources and others’ can be their receptive nature in the country. So, it is all these edges that we have brought together that is Nigeria today. So, it is the most appropriate political move to adhere strictly to the power shift. There is wisdom in it. 2023: Pro-Atiku Groups Urge Former VP Not To Run Again 2023: Atiku More Than Qualified To Run Under PDP, Says Bauchi Sowhatwouldyousayisthestrengthofthe south? Talking of the south now, the South- West is the most qualified region today not in terms of credentials, but in terms of how power has been managed since Buhari came on board. The alliance that we had between 1960 and 1966 between the north and the south-east, it almost led the country into extinction because it led to a civil war. Nobody should be blamed for that. We were just learning from the political process of that time. So we cannot hold the north, the east or anybody responsible for that. It is just part of nature. America and other countries have also gone to war. It became lessons in their life. They don’t do things that could lead them into civil wars again. So, the south-south and the north also had their alliance during the Jonathan period. There was no problem about that. So, when the south-west and the north had their alliance, they have learnt from the mistakes of the past alliances and the alliance has been perfected. It would be proper to nurture such an alliance and not rupture it. It would be politically foolhardy to allow such an alliance to rupture. And the best way to nurture it is to allow it to be nurtured by the south-west from 2023. Are you confident that the aspirants from the south-west can nurture the alliance successfully? Yes, we are so lucky that the array of contestants emerging from the southern region generally are quality materials we should be proud of. These are the people that have been tested one way or the other and found to have done well. We have among them former governors, former commissioners that are still holding higher positions in this administration in Nigeria and they are doing well in the duties the country has assigned them to handle. And they have not failed us. We are so lucky. I know the intention of the party in power must have been to be in power for so long. And if that is the truth, they should learn from the mistake of the PDP. This type of scenario led to the crisis of the PDP that time. There is more wisdom; there is more profit in allowing power to come to the south-west in 2023. There is almost no profit in allowing power to remain in the north. Agreed, the north is a formidable part of Nigeria but cannot make up Nigeria. And we all know that every region has its contributions to Nigeria. So, these contributions would continue as long as I see that I am part of Nigeria, that I am treated as an equal stakeholder in Nigeria. The moment power remains in the north, it would give an interpretation that other regions would see themselves as participating in the country from the point of weakness. And what we should continue to do in Nigeria is to continue strengthening each other and not to weaken each other. And that is what is called nation building. Let us sound the note of warning again to our northern brothers and the APC as a political party that there is no wisdom in the power remaining in the north after 2023.