Lagos – Mr. Oromoni Sylvester, father of the deceased Junior Secondary School student of Dowen College, Lagos, on Tuesday told a Lagos Coroner Court that there is a massive cover up over the death of his son. Oromoni Senior disclosed this while being cross-examined by the Director in Ministry of Justice, Mr Akin George who asked him to clarify why he alleged a cover up in a video clip. The witness responded that the police had told him the investigation had not been concluded before the suspected five students were released. The witness further told the court presided by Coroner Magistrate Mikhail Kadri, the witness said his disclosure is clearly stated in the police report. He said, “It is clearly stated in the police report that a Magistrates’ Court in Yaba requested for 21 days and after 14 days, the boys were granted bail when the police were not done with their investigations. 2023: Group Canvasses Tinubu As Consensus Candidates Of All… Davido Disburses N250m To 292 Orphanage Homes “When I saw the Commissioner of Police (Hakeem Odumosu), he told me that it was not true that they were not done with their investigation. On that day, when they said they had released those boys, the courts were not sitting. “I then called the Deputy Commissioner of Police who told me the same thing and asked me to give him some time. After about two to four minutes he called me back and he confirmed that they were given 21 days for their investigations and the boys had just spent 14-days in detention. “They (police) said they were going to write a protest letter. They were already interrogating two of the students so they were taken by surprise. The same Commissioner of Police, after some days now publicly said that at the instance of Mr Governor, the Attorney-General and the Directorate of Public Prosecutions said there was nothing wrong with the boys therefore they’ve released them. Earlier in the proceeding, Oromoni Senior told court that he did not call anybody to massage the deceased leg but to examine the leg. POLL While he was being cross-examined by Mr. Godwin Omoaka (SAN), the witness maintained that the school had told them that the boy had muscle pull while playing football. But, “he (the deceased) was massaged in the school severally not in the house.” The father of the deceased who became emotional and started crying after the video clip of the boy in agony of pain on the bed, was played to clarify the allegation that the deceased was bullied. He told court that he was not there when the deceased told Peter Odeworitse and his mother that he was bullied. “I don’t see any sign of being beaten. That was after two weeks.” When he was cross examined by the school lawyer, Mr. Anthony Kpokpo, Oromoni Senior clarified that Dr. Henry Aghogho did not tell him on November 26, 2021 that his son had enlarged liver. He explained that, “A nurse called from school on Monday evening that my son needed medical attention. It was the first time that the school called me for that. It is a lie that the school earlier called me to come and pick up my son for having a twisted tongue and scalded mouth.”