ABAKALIKI – The aspirations of Dr Ezeh Emmanuel Ezeh to be the governor of Ebonyi State in 2023 has received a major boost following his endorsement by members of the South-East organised private sector. The group threw their weights behind Mr Ezeh during a dinner organized in honour of South East business leaders, Chamber of Commerce Presidents, Director Generals, youth and women entrepreneurs, by Mr Ezeh on the sideline of NACCIMA 1st quarter Council meeting held in Abuja 23rd-24th February, 2022. The President of South East Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture(SECCIMA), Chief Ngonadi who spoke on behalf of the group, disclosed the preparedness of the organized private sector in the zone to back Mr Ezeh’s ambition. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… New Electoral Act Will Deepen Nigeria’s Democracy –… He said SECCIMA family would support and provide necessary actions that would aide Mr Ezeh’s victory. Earlier in his remarks, Ezeh who is pursuing his ambition on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), asserted that he is in the race to halt the descent into ungovernable spaces that is raving the East. He called on his colleagues to heed the call to this service, noting that the business environment of the South East has totally collapsed. Ezeh said, “the East is dying a slow but painful death. Our youths need jobs, our small businesses need a supportive environment to thrive. The times call for entrepreneurs, intellectuals and technocrats to get involved in politics and the political process.” He spoke passionately on the need to bring a sort of leadership that is focused on the people. POLL “Our young men and women have become both desperate and despondent. The conundrum Nigeria represents is a sad reality: Poverty in the midst of riches. We failed our people and the effects have returned in what is becoming a revolt of the masses”,Ezeh added. The Governorship hopeful, said he is coming highly networked, Intellectually prepared, emotionally and physically sound. He promised that the Soludo effects witnessed in Anambra would be reechoed in Ebonyi State in what has become a people’s movement that cuts across party affiliations. Mr Ezeh had on Tuesday, February 22, 2022, during the Ebonyi State PDP expanded State Executive meeting, Dr Ezeh Emmanuel Ezeh officially declared his interest to contest for the governorship of Ebonyi State in 2023; a bold step that instantly altered the dynamics of the game of politics in Ebonyi State, given his intimidating profile, obvious competence, sense of preparedness and the technocratic background from which he surfaced.