ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has identified Secondary School Inter-house Sports Competition as a viable platform for the country’s Olympic talent hunt. Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, Comrade Ikharo Attah made this known at the 20th Annual Inter-House Sports Competition held at Government Secondary School Nyanya, Abuja. He hinted that the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and the Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu both believe in the combination of sporting and education as a viable tool in ensuring that students are properly developed. Shanghai Isaac Stern Competition 2020 0pens For Applications Covenant University Emerges First Place Winner In CFA Institute… While adding that, this will enable students to shun the twine vices of drugs abuse and cultism. According to him, ” The FCT Administration believe that Secondary School Interhouse sports competition avails us the opportunity for talent hurting. ” Because from places like this great talent that stood in for Olympics NUGA games in the university and other very vital national games were discovered”. He, however, expressed optimism that the inter-house competition would avail the school management and government opportunity to fish out talent that would do not just FCT but the nation proud. POLL Attah said that the FCT Minister has directed him to make a passionate appeal to the students across the territory to shun vices of cultism and drugs addiction. ” Because your future remains bright and it will not be blink if you decide to follow the right path. ” So, please do all you can don’t get involved in cultism, gangsterism and don’t fraternize with men that do not represent the moral standard of your parents, faith and calling,” he said. Earlier, the Principal of the School, Mrs Olure Irewole, said sports promote discipline and academic brilliance as well as provide an opportunity for students to come closer to one another, to form bonds and friendships. She, however, appealed to the FCT Administration to provide a big hall for indoor games which were recently introduced to the students such as Scrabble, Chess, Ludo, And Ayo. She also begged the administration to support the school with sports equipment such as Jersey, balls, net and upgrade the school sports field to a standard one. Also, Mrs Nanre Emeje, the acting Chairman, FCT Secondary Education Board, disclosed that three students of FCT discovered through inter-house sports are already participating at international athletics outside the country. ” They were picked in two of our schools in Jiwa and Deidei.” She, however, urged students to take their academic activities seriously.