LAFIA – In his effort to touch the life of common people at the grassroot level, Speaker Nasarawa State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi has installed over 350 solar street lights across major villages in all the six electoral wards of his constituency. The Speaker Balarabe Abdullahi representing Umaisha/Ugya (APC), in the state Assembly spent about 23.5Million Naira for the community project in the six electoral wards which are Umaisha, Ugya, katapha, Dausu, Shege and Kenyehu respectively,saying that the effort is to complement Governor Abdullahi Sule in the state. Recalled that the Speaker commence the installation of 150 street light worth 10.5m in Umaisha the headquarters of Umaisha development area of Toto local government area of the state last year. [UPDATE] Lagos State PDP Congress: Diri Charges Delegates On… Nigerians Will Be Shocked By Nigerians Of PDP Presidential… The second phase which was carried out this year between last month and this month saw the purchased of over 200 solar street lights to some selected flash light villages in the remaining five electoral wards. Some of the villages that benefited in Umaisha are shogene and Ilegeya, in katapha ward villages like katapha, Anguwan Mada ,Share and Angwan Hausawa benefited while Shamange and karbana benefited in kenyehu ward. Other villages in Ugya ward, kolo, kuwa and kovoso benefited while Dausu and Igwa benefited in Dausu ward just, Ihenkpe, kaita,Tondo, Angura,Shege,Daza, Shakaruku, kokoto and kanahuru all benefited in Shege ward. The gesture according to the Speaker was part of his effort to consolidate on the effort of Governor Abdullahi Sule and security agencies improve on the state of insecurity especially the activities of bandits and kidnappers in the area as well as improve on the standard of living of his people. He however called on the people of the area to safeguard the street lights jealously, be security conscious, remain committed to constituted authorities and be supportive of the government of the day at all levels in order to succeed.