He is blessed with a calming voice which soothes his listeners. Having been a broadcaster for decades and in the entertainment industry for some time, renowned historian, filmmaker and cultural ambassador, Alfred Oladotun Taylor is a professional that knows his onions. Presently sojourn in Hollywood California, the mecca of world entertainment, Dotun who represents the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi in the United States, beam his searchlight on the plight of millions of Blacks in Diaspora that are desirous of tracing their roots and heritage but without any support and to promote tourism in Nigeria. Ambassador Taylor, the founder of Roots and Heritage Renaissance Initiative (RHRI) being a filmmaker has also afforded him the opportunity to showcase the beauty of our culture through telling stories in films. Bolatito Adebola brings excerpts. What have you been up to lately? At the moment I live in California, I’ve been doing exactly the same thing since I’ve been in the industry and presently I represent the Ooni of Ifẹ in the United States on cultural matters and I am also the face of Oduduwa as well as  the ambassador on tourism for Ile-Ife. My job in this aspect is to enlighten those who are of Yoruba descent in America and we have a lot of them in the United States. Some MCSN Members Disappointed With Royalty Sharing Policy Who Is After Demola Seriki? During the era of the slave trade, most of the blacks ferried abroad were from Ghana, Togo and Nigeria, majority were actually captured at the coastal areas. In the advent of new technologies, there is a genetic DNA machine that can help African Americans or blacks abroad detect their origin. A lot of people are being sent back here to the Yoruba region, most of them want to see the land and know their roots. This is the major reason His Imperial Majesty, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi mandates it that it’s an appropriate time to have an ambassador that can lead many back to the Yoruba land. And being the voice of Oduduwa and an historian, automatically I fit in to be the Asoju Asa Oodua in United States. What’s the scope of your work as cultural ambassador? I represent the management of the Oba Empire. I’ve my own crown; I was actually crowned before I went to the United States as the Asojú Àṣà Oodua. So I represent him at official cultural and social events, and also business events that have to do with culture. That’s what I do and it’s one of the greatest experiences I’ve had in my life. What qualifies you for this assignment and huge task? POLL Remember that I am a historian and also a filmmaker, I know drama is a good medium to tell a story, so I have always chosen film to express myself. I always tell my friends that if I didn’t have the film platform to tell my stories, I’ll look somewhere else for other medium but I found the microphone, and I go on radio. And if I can’t go on radio, I write books. I’ll go on Facebook and I just write my ideas. So it’s just for me. I’m a historian. I like to tell historical stories and I choose film, microphone which is radio maybe because I have a great voice. How have you been coping with the challenges in tourism, bringing people back to their place of origin despite the insecurity in the country? You can’t tell a man coming from the United States where the next man standing next to you in a supermarket has a revolver and he could shoot you dead; you can’t tell him that Nigeria is not safe.  More so, you can’t tell a man who could send a child to school and they will say please come get them out of school because one of their classmates brought out a gun and is shooting the teachers and everybody in class. Likewise, you can’t tell me that Nigeria is not safe. It is just propaganda on the lips of some people.  I am very aware of the political and safety situation in Nigeria. The world is a global village and safety is of God and as I say Nigeria is what I sell, so you can’t tell me what I sell is bad. If I’m going to certain places I go with heavy security personnel. In convincing people, you don’t need to convince those who want to come to their father’s land. It is people that are telling terrible stories about Nigeria that we should beg. As a Yoruba culture ambassador, so all these things I’m doing is because I’m the cultural ambassador, I might not be able to do it like this if I wasn’t the cultural ambassador because I’ve been sent a message and it just happened to coincide with the things I’ve always wanted to do with my life as an historian. What are you presently doing in Nigeria? I came for the pre-production of my new movie project titled ‘Apes Obey’.  The movie is an extract of what happened in colonial era of Lagos in 1948, the apartheid Lagos. A lot of people; most especially the younger generation, do not know that there was a Lagos where whites and blacks do not mix. What they called the Government Reserved Areas (GRA) of today used to be the European Reserved Areas, (ERA), so I am making a film about that and that’s why I’m home right now, and being an ambassador, I will use every means I have to tell the story and the cultural aspect of Yoruba land. Aje Festival Reloaded: Princess Toyin Kolade To Host Economic… Olori Naomi Silekunolami Resurfaces What’s the experience like in Hollywood, do you have anything special when it comes to film making? Though, living in Hollywood, California has changed and orientated me differently. I see the whole business of filmmaking differently right now and I do understand the philosophy of investments and its returns, expectation and because I live in the United States, with the largest film industry in the world everything in life is about market and numbers, if you have a big market then explore it. What’s the perception of African content in Hollywood? Everywhere everyone is living right now any entertainment is a click away; all these Nigerian skit makers are popular around the work. Wizkid is practically like the biggest artiste all over the world right now. I’m not saying Africa but in the world. Whatever you’re doing, everyone is seeing it. Our movies are being watched as long as it’s online. Anybody can see anything. Toyin Aimakhu is more famous in America than she knows, same with Funke Akindele. I’m not saying amongst Nigerians now even among Americans they know them because all they need to do is search for Nigerian movies on Netflix and they will come up. The world is just a click away. In terms of production quality we also meeting up and technology is becoming simpler that some phones can shoot a movie. That same boy in Akure can do the same thing as the boy in Hollywood as long as you understand storytelling. We still need to have a big budget to do the right thing but technology is making it simpler. So what about your return to radio? People say I’ve a radio voice, and we have technology that now allows people to listen to radio anywhere, you can speak from California, you are heard in Ibadan. I’ve a program where I just tell history and people come on social media and asked me to come back on radio and they go to the radio station; Faaji FM where I used to have it and say we want him back on radio. The program on radio is based on history, the title might be different. The content is history, I just pick things like Elewa Shapon, Alajo Somolu and many others, I just tell it on radio and it’s because I know it is important for people to know what’s happened.