…..As National, Delta ADC Leader, Former NIDOE Boss Promises To Address Income Inequality As His First Senate Bill ASABA – Delta North 2023 Senatorial Aspirant under the platform of African Democratic Congress, ADC, Deputy National Chairman, ADC Diaspora Engagement, and Former President, Nigerians In Diaspora Organization, European countries, Hon. Kenneth Chibuogwu Gbandi has said that his first bill as a Senator of The Federal Republic of Nigeria if elected come 2023 to represent the people of Delta North Senatorial District in the upper chamber of the National Assembly is to Address Income Inequality, irresponsible Jumbo Senate Salary and Benefits. Ex+NIDOE Boss disclosed this to some group of Journalists during an exclusive Interview with newsmen after his declaration on Saturday, being 26th February, 2022 at the Association of Civil Servants of Nigeria Complex Main Hall, Maryam Babangida Way, Asaba, Delta State capital as he joined other aspirants declared his intention to contest for the seat of Senate in Delta North Senatorial District of Delta State, Nigeria. APC Chieftain Wants Election Dates Permanent In Nation’s… Nwafor-Orizu Emerges PDP Chairman In Anambra Hon. Gbandi stated that he came with very vast and rich experience in administration, governance as a seasoned global Management Consultants, that he is ready to use his international connections to make Delta North Senatorial District, “THE EDORADO OF NIGERIA” and boost the socio-economic development of Delta North Senatorial District of Delta State, and Nigeria in general. He noted further that he will ensure that he promotes empowerment and create jobs for the teaming Youths in his Senatorial zone, State and Nigeria; also ensure that the Constitution of Nigeria is reformed, join forces to make laws to remove quick money in politics and reduce the salary of legislators in Nigeria, facilitate Diaspora Commission Bill to come to fruition, attract grants worth $2.4 Billion to finance Housing development in his Senatorial District, Delta State and Nigeria in general. He commended the National Leadership of the party led by Ambassador Raph Okey Nwosu and other principal officials of the party, the Delta State leadership and the electoral committee members for the successful State congress, elections of the party, the swearing in of the newly elected Executives of ADC party in Delta State as the declaration was done simultaneously with Delta ADC State Congress in Asaba, the state capital. He also commended the INEC observers, the media, party faithfuls, members for the support and attendance. Gbandi, a security expert and media guru also assured members of ADC in Delta State that the party’s Senatorial outing come 2023 will be fruitful while he enjoined the Chairman, and other members of the Executives to continue in their unity of purpose and to work hard to win election in Delta State come 2023. POLL In his words: “I hereby declare to contest for the position of Senator Representing Delta North Senatorial District In the upper chamber of the National Assembly. I’m ready and qualified to do the job of a lawmaker.” “As part of my vision for my people, I will dedicate a considerable chunk of my salary to support a sustainable Youth) Graduate startup program and support healthcare for the most vulnerable in my Constituency.”