DAMATURU – The Federal Ministry of Environment in collaboration with the Nigerian Conservation Foundation have commemorated 2022 World Wetlands Day at Baturiya wetlands, Hadejia of Jigawa State. Every year worldwide, Wetlands Day is observed on February 02 to create awareness of the need for the conservation of wetlands for the betterment of the ecosystem and climate change problems. Harry Hanson Junior, Project Coordinator, NCF/ Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands Conservation Project, Nguru Yobe State told Daily Independent that the day was first accepted as an international treaty named the Convention on Wetlands on February 02, 1971, in Ramsar, Iran. Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC Angela Folarin To Be Buried On Feb 22 “The United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution 75/317 for World Wetlands Day on August 30, 2021. Though public awareness regarding the day started in 1997”. He said: “the wetlands play a significant role in the ecosystem as they are the biodiversity hotspots, being the habitat for many aquatic flora and fauna. It is also home to numerous species of birds, including migratory species. “Wetlands play a crucial role in water security and also provide a barrier against natural disasters such as flooding. They also help fight climate change and prevent soil erosion. Wetlands also act as carbon stores, and form one of the most important sinks for greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide”. This year he explained that the theme for the celebration is ‘Wetlands Action for People and Nature’ to draw attention to the sustainable use of wetlands and promote conservation efforts. Nigeria has 11 wetlands of international importance (Ramsar Sites). The total area is about 1,076,728 hectares. POLL These sites include: Lake Chad wetlands in Borno State; Dagona Sanctuary Lake, Yobe State; Hadejia-Nguru Lake, Jigawa and Yobe States; Maladumba Lake, Bauchi State; Baturiya wetland, Jigawa; Foge Islands, Kebbi State; Apoi Creek Forests, Bayelsa State; Padam and Wase Lakes, Plateau State, Upper Orashi Forests, Rivers State; Oguta Lake, Imo State and Lower Kaduna-Middle Niger Floodplain, Niger State. It is important to note that the Niger-Delta wetland is the largest wetland in Africa and the 3rd largest mangrove forest in the world”. The lack of conservation of wetlands he observed “can have harmful consequences in several aspects such as climate change mitigation, water and food security, disaster management and so on. Therefore, the conservation of wetlands is crucial to prevent the biodiversity of the country. “The destruction of wetlands will lead to the damage of millions of people associated with the wetland ecosystem directly or indirectly. So, observing this day will make people understand the importance of wetlands”. “It is, therefore, pertinent to state that wetlands are a beautiful part of our ecosystem and we should take care of the wetlands. “On the occasion of World Wetlands Day 2022, let us spread knowledge about wetlands to our friends and neighbours. Zamfara Assembly Commences Moves To Impeach Deputy Gov Gusau Accident Claims Six In Abuja “The Federal Ministry of Environment in collaboration with the Nigerian Conservation Foundation commemorates the 2022 World Wetlands Day at Baturia Wetlands in Jigawa State, a sector of the Hadejia Nguru wetlands.” Speaking to newsmen at the event, the Director General Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Muktari Aminu Kano described the day as auspicious “I’m happy that we are coming to Baturiya, Hadejia, Nguru areas because this is one of the important wetlands in the World and impressed with the support from the community which is highly wonderful and the commitment of the Minister for coming here is really commendable.” He disclosed that they have very effective partners with the support of the ministry especially the State Minister ” we have been working closely together in several areas and we have pledged to look at more areas and people to collaborate because tackling the environment needs all hands on deck”. He added that the NCF has had the project in Hadejia, Nguru areas for the last 40 years, ” we’re still continuing and we will continue to enhance the livelihood of the people and at the same time looking after the environment”. The programme witnessed the presence of Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Environment Sharon O. Ikeazor as Special Guest, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, Executive Governor of Jigawa State, represented by the Commissioner, Jigawa State Ministry of Environment Ibrahim Baba Thaithai. Others are the Chairman, Senate House Committee on Environment, Senator Ibrahim Hadejia Hassan, the Director General, Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Dr Muhtari Aminu Kano, Emir of Hadejia, Dr Adamu Abubakar -Maje. The Minister also paid a visit to some of the Typha Clearance intervention sites of the Federal Ministry of Environment /NCF in the Wetlands.