BENIN – Stakeholders at the Edo State owed-Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma have faulted what they described as “Governor Godwin Obaseki’s continuous eroding of the autonomy and disregard of the laws of the University, saying that his action is a fundamental breach of the University Laws 1999, as amended. The Governor’s action, according to the stakeholders, is a fundamental breach of both the University Laws 1999 (as amended) and the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021, especially as it concerns the appointment of the Deputy Vice Chancellors for the University According to a statement signed by the stakeholders who described themselves as “Concerned Edo Citizens” it is unfair for the governor to erode the autonomy and disregard the laws of the University, including the contentious of Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021 of the University. FCT Council Poll: Abuja Indigenes Commend INEC, Minister For… 2023: Group Gives Jite Brown 4-Week Ultimatum To Declare For… X-raying recent development in the University, particularly the sudden removal Prof. Benson Osadolor as Acting Vice Chancellor of the University and his replacement with Prof. Sunny Adagbonyin as well as the appointment of two Deputy Vice Chancellors for the University, the stakeholders expressed strong resentment against Governor Obaseki’s action. They described the Governor’s action as fundamental breach of both the University Laws 1999 (as amended) and the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021 for appointing Deputy Vice Chancellors for the University. “Governor Obaseki’s action is a violent attack on the university autonomy and usurpation of the function of the Senate of the University so empowered by law to nominate candidates for the positions of Deputy Vice Chancellors” they argued. “In fact, Governor Obaseki’s action in this regard is a violation of the University Law 1999 (as amended) and a gross disregard for Part 1 Section 2(c) of the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021 of the University. “Part 1 Section 2 (c) of the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021 empowers the Visitor to appoint interim principal officers but such interim principal officers did not include Deputy Vice Chancellors. POLL “Strictly speaking, therefore, Deputy Vice Chancellors are not principal officers so recognized by the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law. “In fact, the Special Intervention Powers of the Visitor as guaranteed by the Special Intervention Powers Provisions Law 2021 states in Part 1 Section 2(c) that the Visitor has power to “appoint interim Principal Officers for the day to day management of the University. “The said interim Principal Officers shall include an Interim Vice Chancellor, Interim Registrar, Interim Bursar and an Interim Librarian. “The functions and powers of these interim Principal Officers shall be as prescribed in the Ambrose Alli University Law 1999 (as amended) for the offices of Vice Chancellor, Registrar, Bursar and University Librarian, respectively. “The tenure of office of the interim Principal Officers shall be for the period covered by the intervention”. 2023: APC Executives, Legislature, Chieftains Meet In Lagos To… Saraki Canvasses Release Of Ebonyi PDP Spokesman, Nwoba Describing the Deputy Vice Chancellors so-appointed by Governor Obaseki as “Government House Deputy Vice Chancellors”, the stakeholders urged the Governor to halt the reign of illegality and impunity in the University. While lamenting that the situation in the University was unbecoming of how not to manage a university, the stakeholders urged Governor Obaseki to retrace his steps and return the University to the long-tested laws, traditions and ethos of management of a university through knowledgeable and competent Governing Council. Recalled that Governor Obaseki on the 8th of February, 2022 relieved Prof. Benson Osadolor of his position as Acting Vice Chancellor of the University and subsequently appointed Prof. Sunny Adagbonyi as a replacement and Prof. Theo O. Agweda and Prof. Marshall Azeke as Deputy Vice Chancellors, Administration and Academic, respectively for the University. No reason was given for the sudden removal of Prof. Benson Osadolor, even as staff and stakeholders of the University hailed the performance of Prof. Benson Osadolor for the period he spent in the University.