Tottenham Hotspur boss Antonio Conte has opened up on the club’s January signing of Dejan Kulusevski, hinting at a potential surprise new role for the Swede in his XI.0 seconds of 2 minutes, 3 secondsVolume 0% Gifted youngster Kulusevski was of course one of two late arrivals on the Lilywhite half of north London in the buildup to this week’s winter transfer deadline. On the back of a spell with Serie A heavyweights Juventus which never truly got going, ‘Kulu’ opted to swap Turin for the English capital, joined by Bianconeri teammate Rodrigo Bentancur in a complicated double deal of sorts. Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… UEFA Expects €7 Billion In Pandemic Losses In turn, speaking in a press conference ahead of his side’s upcoming meeting with Brighton, Antonio Conte was, on Friday, drawn on what exactly he expects Kulusevski to add to his squad. And the Italian first went on to hail the abilities possessed by the 21-year-old: ”About Kulusevski, he is a good player.” Conte explained. ”He is very young, he is a great talent and he can play like a number 10 with the strikers.” From here, however, Spurs’ boss sprung something of a surprise on the media presence in attendance, in hinting that Kulusevski could yet be utilised in a right-wing-back role under his watch at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium: ”At the same time he has the potential to play wing-back on the right, he has good quality. He likes to attack, he is good on a one vs one, to create chances for team-mates. A good signing for us.” POLL Turning attentions away from the transfer market and back towards matters on the pitch, Kulusevski could yet be afforded his Tottenham bow in a little over 24 hours’ time. This comes with Antonio Conte’s troops set to return to action on the back of a two-week break in an FA Cup 4th-round meeting with Brighton. After being ousted from the Europa Conference League in embarrassing fashion at the first hurdle, the FA Cup represents Spurs’ only real remaining shot at silverware this season, with the north Londoners, in turn, no doubt desperate to get the better of Graham Potter’s Brighton to book their spot in the competition’s 5th-round on Saturday night.