ABUJA – An election monitoring group, Centre for Transparency Advocacy CTA has concluded training of 150 observers it mobilised for the coverage of the Federal Capital Territory FCT Council Elections, slated for Saturday. Executive Director of CTA, Faith Nwadishi in conjunction with other stakeholders anchored the training session, on Thursday in Abuja. The prospective observers who fell within age brackets of 20 to 50 years were lectured on contemporary trends in election monitoring in Nigeria. She told them that according to the guidelines provided by INEC, campaigns is expected to close by 10 pm tonight. Other information provided by the trainers is that a total of 14 political parties are presenting candidates for the positions as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission. She said 55 candidates are contesting for the position of Chairman while 363 candidates are jostling to fill the position for Councilors across the 68 constituencies in the FCT. Although there are pockets of court litigations, she said INEC has confirmed that there are 1,373,492 registered voters in the FCT while the number of polling units in the FCT stands at 2,822 including the newly created 2,260. The CTA Boss also noted that voting will start by 8:30 am and end by 2:30 pm. POLL She also told them that voters who arrive late but as long as they are seen on the queue before 2:30 pm, they will still be allowed to vote. While reminding the observers of the need to arrive at their respective polling units early, she told them that 95percent of the non-sensitive materials have since been distributed by INEC but that the sensitive materials which is under the custody of the Central Bank of Nigeria will be distributed as from 10pm prior to the day of the election proper. She told the observers to look out for unusual happenings, especially cases of vote-buying and if possible use phones to take photographs, including action photos. She also informed the participants that a total of 2,242 observers have been accredited to monitor the elections, with over 3000 media personnel to be on ground. Meanwhile, three National Commissioners would be deployed for the elections. The observers were equally informed of the electoral offences to look out for, such as ballot box snatching, underage voting, foreigners who are not eligible to vote amongst other vices. The trainees were also intimated of the flashpoints where violence may be more prone in the FCT. The exercise ended with observers signing their pledge forms and the thesis forms where their findings would be documented handed over to them.