Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN), has alerted the public of an imminent industrial action it is about to take as it even issued a 14-day ultimatum to MTN Nigeria over anti-workers’ activities. The Union in a statement signed by Com. Opeyemi Tomori, President and Com. Okonu Abdullahi, General Secretary, stated that the union will continue to do within the confines of the laws in order to improve the working conditions of our members no matter how daunting and insurmountable the task. Comrade Opeyemi Tomori, PTECSSAN President, while speaking during a press conference held in Lagos, notified MTN network subscribers of the disruption of telecoms service the union’s action may cause and the adverse effect on their businesses, business partners and associates. Firm Pays Series 1 Commercial Paper Issuance To Investors Customs Seizes Vehicles, Other Goods Worth N69m In One Month At… According to Tomori, “It has become inevitable that our Union issues this 14- day ultimatum to alert the public of an imminent industrial action and the disruption of telecoms service it may cause MTN network subscribers, and the adverse effect on their businesses, business partners and associates. “You may recall that sometimes in 2019, a similar ultimatum was issued, but for the timely intervention of the Honorable Minister of Labour and Productivity, the planned action did not take place. Just as it was in that year, the Company continues to remain adamant in listening to the cry and demand of its workers, who are members of our Union.” Tomori said that as daunting as those issues raised back then were, it was the firm belief of PTECSSAN that the Collective Bargaining Agreement, if negotiated in good faith and signed off by both parties, would go a long way in addressing the concerns of the workers in the organization. “Unfortunately, the Company has remained adamant, insisting that all the workers’ conditions of service as stated in the company’s policy must remain so and cannot be negotiated. This negates the agreement they hitherto signed at the ministry of Labour to fully negotiate the workers’ condition of service. “This reprehensible stand of the Company attests to the fact that the company (MTN Nigeria) is averse to international Labour best practices as depicted in both International Labour Organization Conventions 87 (freedom of association and protection of the right to organize) and 98 (right to organize and collective bargaining). In other words, it is fair to conclude that MTN Nigeria by its body language, is averse to the existence of the Labour Union in her establishment,” he added. POLL Some of the issues of concerns raised by the union include Non-Existence of mutually negotiated Exit Benefits; Discriminatory Remuneration/ benefits, and Ridiculous/Inhumane Retirement benefit. Speaking further, Tomori said: “As a responsible Trade Union, we shall not allow the Company to continue to disregard relevant laws of the land that protect the rights, especially rights to organize and bargain, of the workers, hence, we demand as follows: That MTNN Management agrees to a 2-week physical meeting to round off the CBA negotiation and sign off the document; That the Union will no longer be in any meeting without both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Human Resources Officer in attendance; That MTNN Management should stop forthwith obnoxious policy that threatens membership of the Union, among others.