LAGOS – Okwesilieze Nwodo, former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former gov­ernor of Enugu State has said that the time has come for oth­er regions of the country to support the South-East region to produce the next president, stressing that Nigeria owes the region so much. The former governor, in an interview, took time to enumerate the qualities that a candidate for the office of the president should have, stressing that the region has too many candidates who are qualified to be President. “We need a president who can comprehend the present condition of Nigeria, and has a clear vision of how to solve the situation in Nigeria. He or she should be a candidate that has a clear economic road map to remove us from the poorest country in the world back to the economy that was growing fastest in Africa back, to the seventh strongest economy growing in the world. Jealous Lover Kills Girlfriend For Flirting With Customer In… Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC “The candidate must have a solution to unemployment, have integrity and not one that will fall on the knife of the Economic and Finan­cial Crimes Commission (EFCC),” he said. Other qualities that he mentioned include the capac­ity to communicate, sound ed­ucation to be able to compre­hend the different problems facing Nigeria, among others. He maintained that people with such qualities abound in South-East, pointing out that from antecedents people like, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Sam Ohuabunwa, Nnia Nwodo, Pius Anyim, Ogbonnia Onu, among others are qualified to lead Nigeria. “We have people who have demonstrated transparency in governance, in business and have credible ideas on how to take us out of the dun­geon. Why can’t we turn to the South-East? What is the crime of the South-East? “What have we done that Nigerians cannot forgive? I don’t understand what is going on but as I said earlier, Nigerians have a conscience and we want you to prick that conscience. We will wake it up as we have done in the past to heal the wounds of June 12,” he said. POLL Nwodo wondered why the region has always been rele­gated to the background in the scheme of things. “Today with what is going on in the North-East, the North-East Economic Development Com­mission was set up. When the South-South protested that it was the hen that laid the gold­en egg, and wanted resource control, President Yar Adua healed the wound. He creat­ed the Niger Delta Ministry; he created a commission that is targeted at fast-forwarding the development in the re­gion. He created opportuni­ties for their youths.