ABEOKUTA – The Minister of Communi­cation and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami, has re­vealed that technology start-ups are not only key drivers of economic growth, the global start-up economy is worth over $3.8 trillion in Ecosystem Value, more than individual Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of most G7 economies. Pantami stated this in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, while addressing the participants at a two-day 5th Tech Summit Ogun, 2022, on the creative industry and its impact of the economy. The summit, tagged ‘Dis­ruptive Innovation: Produc­tion and Distribution of Cre­ative Content’, was convened by the Chief Executive Officer of VerveTree Startup, Olaniyi Ayoola. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Ojokoro LCDA Chairman Budgets N3.8bn For 2022 Pantami, represented by Dr. Abimbola Alale, the CEO/MD of Nigerian Com­munication Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT), said apart from the values created by startups, digitally-based com­panies now dominate the list of largest companies in the world with seven out of top 10 largest companies from the digital technology sector. According to him, Aug­mented and Virtual Reality was projected to grow into a $95 billion market by 2025, saying the projection demand in the creative economy from gaming, live events, film, and video entertainment and re­tail could not be over empha­sised. He said further that digital­isation was therefore one of the key means by which cre­ative content could be made more visible and accessible to regional and global audienc­es, “as such digitisation offers great potentials for tapping into traditional and non-tra­ditional markets for creative goods and services. He said: “The creative econ­omy is recognised as a major contributor to economic growth. The creative industry has proven to be an important source of growth in the glob­al economy. According to the United Nation Conference on Trade and Development, the global market value for creative goods doubled from $208 billion in 2002 to $509 bil­lion in 2015. “Technology startups are a key driver of economic growth. According to a 2021 report by Startup Genome, the global startup economy is worth over $3.8 trillion in Ecosystem Value, more than the individual GDP of most G7 economies. POLL “This may explain why the use of Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) is expected to rise exponential­ly. A foremost Goldman Sachs estimates that AR and VR will grow into a $95 billion market by 2025. “Digitalisation is there­fore one of the key means by which creative content can be made more visible and acces­sible to regional and global audiences. As such, digital­isation offers great potential for tapping into traditional and non-traditional markets for creative goods and ser­vices.” The minister further re­vealed that over 20 policies had been developed while initiating programmes to ensure that the country was built to a stage where digital innovation and entrepre­neurship were used to create value and prosperity for all. He listed the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, which was an­chored on eight pillars; Nige­ria National Broadband Plan (2020-2035); Nigeria Startup Bill, in the process of being forwarded to the National Assembly; and National Dig­ital Innovation and Entrepre­neurship, among the policies and programme.