ABAKALIKI – Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, has thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor David Umahi, and National leadership of the party led by its Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Bala Buni, over his inauguration as the substantive chairman of APC in Ebonyi State. Emegha was inaugurated alongside other states chairmen of the Party in Abuja on Thursday, amidst fractionalization in the party. Prior to his inauguration on Thursday, one Haroun Ajah, was claiming to be the authentic Chairman of APC in the State. Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election Umahi Will Fly APC’s Presidential Ticket, Ebonyi Party… Emegha said, “consequent upon my inauguration on February 3rd, 2022, I Honourable Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, the Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC) Ebonyi State wish to profoundly appreciate the leader of our indefatigable party in the country and likewise the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and our party’s National leadership led by its Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Bala Buni for putting up the historic and elaborate ceremony in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Your leadership inventiveness and acuity have set the party on the path of irreversible progress. “With high sense of humility, l am at a loss of words to express my heartfelt gratitude to the pragmatic and buoyant leader of our party in the state who is also the chairman, South East Governor’s Forum and Ebonyi State Governor, His Excellency, Chief Engr. (Dr.) David Nweze Umahi, (FNSE, FNATE) for his mentorship which has not just reorganized and revamped the APC in the region but also has made it a formidable force with very bright prospects in the future. “Her Excellency, our mother and Wife of the Governor, Chief Mrs Rachael Ogonna Umahi. Your mortherly role to our father towards repositioning the state and party cannot be compared to anything. Therefore, I appreciate your loving kindness to humanity.” “I also want to thank the Deputy Governor, Barr Eric Kelech Igwe, Ph.D for his supportive tendencies which has been flavouring the administration of the Governor and the party with sweet aroma. “May I at this juncture, gratefully acknowledge the contributions of the Right Honourable Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Chief Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru; Minister of Science and Technology, His Excellency, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu; His Excellency, the immediate past Governor of the State, Chief Martins Nwanchor Elechi; Member representing Ikwo/Ezza South constituency at the National Assembly, Comrade Chinedu Oga; the Nigeria High Commissioner to Republic of Zambia, His Excellency, Ambassador Nwannebuike Ominyi; Deacon Austin Umahi (Anyanwu ndi Igbo), other party members and the entire Ebonyians for your respective roles that brought us where we are today. POLL “In return of your roles as strong pillars of our great party, I wish to reinstate that your support cannot be disparaged under my watch as your Chairman. “Therefore, may I reaffirm that my administration will be anchored on democratic tenets and loyalty to the popular opinion and ideology in order to successfully steer the ship to the preferred destination.”