The African Union Commission (AUC), and International Labour Organization (ILO), have reaffirmed their cooperation and partnership by signing an Agreement aimed at improving the world of work and employment in Africa. The new partnership agreement, between the AU and the ILO, was signed in a virtual ceremony on 4th of February 2022 on the margins of the 40th Ordinary Session of the African Union Executive Council, in Addis Ababa, by Cynthia Samuel-Olonjuwon, the ILO Assistant Director-General and Regional Director for Africa, and H.E. Minata Cessouma Samate, the African Union Commissioner for Health, Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development. The Agreement reflects a mutual commitment for closer collaboration between the two organizations for the realization of social justice, through the promotion of decent work; encompassing international labour standards, labour migration governance for development and integration, inclusive economic growth, skills development, employment, industrial relations, social protection and social dialogue. N621bn 21 Critical Roads: NUPENG Demands Halt To Further Release… CBN Appoints Kemi Christina Abdul As Board Member Of Infracorp It aims to intensify collaboration between the AU and the ILO, on a non-exclusive basis, in areas of common interest and to establish the arrangements necessary for the implementation of the agreed areas of collaboration. “The Agreement signed today demonstrates our joint commitment to move from rhetoric to concrete action on the AU Agenda 2063, the UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, and the Africa Union Declaration and Plan of Action on Employment, Poverty Eradication and Inclusive Development in Africa (Ouagadougou+10). This also fosters our joint action to implement the 2019 Abidjan Declaration on Shaping the Future of Work in Africa, the guiding framework for ILO’s work on the continent.” said, Cynthia Samuel-Olonjuwon. H.E. Minata Cessouma Samate highlighted the importance of this partnership, stating that “I look forward to further and deepen our partnership with ILO on the implementation of AU frameworks including the AU Ouagadougou+10 Declaration and Plan of Action on Employment, Poverty Eradication and Inclusive Development in Africa adopted by the AU Assembly of Heads of State and Government in January 2015.” The co-operation between the AU and ILO is guided by the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the African Union’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, particularly concerning its aspiration for “a prosperous Africa, based on inclusive growth and sustainable development” aiming at “a high standard of living, quality of life and well-being for all citizens.”