LAGOS – All the Prospective Corps Members and other Camp participants for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise would undergo the compulsory COVID-19 Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT). Besides, only those that test negative would be allowed entry into the camps. NYSC Director-General, Major General Shuaibu Ibrahim, disclosed this on Friday, during a live joint webinar by NYSC/NCDC organised for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Prospective Corps Members. [JUST IN] COVID-19: Prince Charles’ Wife Camilla Tests… COVID-19: Bayelsa Reassures Those Living With HIV On Safe… The DG disclosed that those that test positive to COVID-19 would be handed over to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and State Ministry of Health Officials for treatment. General lbrahim revealed that the collaboration with NCDC has yielded good results, adding that since the partnership started, no casualty has been recorded in any of the Scheme’s Orientation Camps across the country. The Director-General lauded the Federal Government, Presidential Committee on COVID-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for their support for the Scheme, especially in the conduct of hitch-free Orientation Camps since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. Ibrahim in a statement signed by Emeka Mgbemena, Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations advised the PCMs to be security conscious, avoid night journeys, while also counselling them to break any journey that would extend beyond 6:00 pm. “You can pass the night in any NYSC Orientation camp, NYSC Secretariats, Corps Members’ Lodge, Military and security formations. POLL “I urge you to take advantage of this opportunity because NYSC is a platform for those that are serious. “Posting and other services in NYSC are free, don’t give bribe for posting,” he said. The DG stated further that Call-up letters for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise would be ready on Sunday, February 20, 2022. In her submission, the NCDC/NYSC Project Lead for Safe Camp Reopening, Dr Ladun Okunromade said adequate preparations have been put in place for the safe conduct of the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Exercise. She said different variants of COVID-19 are ravaging the world, while Nigeria has recorded over 1,300 cases of Lassa Fever with 46 deaths and 20 healthcare workers infected. February 12 FCT LG Elections: PDP Alleges Plot By APC To Cause… COVID-19 Threatens Push To End FGM – UN Okunromade advised the Prospective Corps Members and other camp participants to come to camp with facemasks, hand sanitisers; obey physical distancing, maintain personal hygiene and also adhere to all COVID-19 safety guidelines. The NCDC Director-General, Dr Ifedayo Adetifa in his address said “there will be facilities for vaccination in the camp for those that will take either the first or second dose or third jabs and they to sight their vaccination cards”. He urged all camp participants to come to the Orientation camps with their vaccination cards. “This is the 7th edition of safe Camp Re-opening Webinar. We will continue to work hard to facilitate the safe re-opening for all camp participants. The virus is still with us and we must continue to take both personal and collective responsibility to ensure our safety”, he stated. Also during the webinar, Corps Member Ajilese Aliyu Adebayo FC/21C/0113 commended the NYSC Management for the safety measures put in place during his Orientation course at the NYSC FCT Orientation Camp in Kubwa, Abuja.