The Federal Government has given approval for the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to resume flight operations to Nigeria. A letter addressed to His Excellency, Saif Mohammed Al Suwaid, Director General, General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA), UAE said that the approval was sequel to the review and acceptance of the ‘Safety Decision 2021-02 Issue 24’ as released by the authority. The letter stated that the Minister of Aviation has also approved the reinstatement of Emirates Airlines Winter Schedule with immediate effect. Bomb Terrorists Out Of Their Hideouts – Senate Urges FG Private: Exam Malpractice: WAEC’s Nigeria Examinations Committee… The letter, dated February 1, 2022, with the reference: NCAA/DG/CCAA/20/16/119 and made available to journalists, was signed by Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The letter also informed the GCAA that Nigerian carrier, Air Peace has submitted its request to UAE authorities for resumption of scheduled passenger flights between the two countries effective March 1, 2022. According to the letter, Air peace and Emirates Airlines are at liberty to resume scheduled passenger flights between Nigeria and UAE under the terms and conditions of the Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) between the two countries. The letter reads in part: “Your letter of 28 January 2022 with Ref GCAA/ATD/19-22 on the above subject matter refers. I wish to inform you that the safety decision issue has been accepted by Nigerian authorities after reviewing by relevant parties. “Consequently, Emirates Airlines can resume scheduled passenger flight operations to Nigeria at its convenience. POLL “I wish to bring to the notice of HE that the Nigerian operator, Air Peace Airlines has submitted its request to UAE Authorities for resumption of scheduled passenger flights between the two countries effective 01 March 2022.” Nuhu also said in the letter that all parties must ensure strict compliance with the COVID-19 travel protocols of both countries and re-assured the traveling public that the Federal Government would continue to ensure the provision of air services while protecting national’s interests at all times. Nigeria and UAE have been engulfed in a diplomatic row for several months overflight services and adherence to Covid-19 protocols. The Nigerian Government had initially approved the winter schedule of 21 weekly frequencies for Emirates Airlines, but later withdrew it and restricted the airline to only Abuja and one weekly flight. Nuhu had said that it withdrew the approval following the refusal of the GCAA to grant equal rights to the sole Nigerian carrier, Air Peace flying to Dubai via Sharjah. Presidency 2023: Saraki, Best For Nigeria – Edwin Clark 2023: PDP Accuses APC, FG Of Hiding Under Fuel Subsidy Scam To… Nuhu explained that Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation had graciously granted Emirates Airlines 21 frequencies weekly to two major airports in Nigeria; Lagos, 14, and Abuja, seven. He regretted that despite this approval, the UAECAA refused to grant Air Peace three weekly frequencies to Sharjah, which the airline requested for, rather approved just one frequency weekly. According to him, the UAE CAA had attributed its refusal to grant the three frequencies to the airline to inadequate slots in Sharjah airport, stressing that the government would continue to protect Nigeria’s businesses. He said: “The Nigerian Government was gracious to grant Emirates Airlines 21 frequencies it requested for. The airline wants to operate 14 weekly flights to Lagos and another seven weekly to Abuja airports. “However, Air Peace only requested for three weekly flights to Sharjah, not even Dubai airport, but the CAA refused the airline. The CAA only approved one weekly frequency to the airline. The only excuse they gave was that they don’t have enough slots. Where is the justice in this? That is the capital flight out of Nigeria. Nigeria should protect its own.”