***Says Nigeria Problem Is Leadership Deficit ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant on Tuesday warned the party not to temper with the zoning provision of the party. The aspirant, Maxi Sam Ohuabunwa, also pointed out that the problem of the country is leadership deficit. Ekiti Governorship Election: Kolawole Receives Certificate Of… Bye-Election: Alade Olanrewaju Lawson Wins APC Primary Addressing a press conference in Abuja, the former chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), disclosed that the party Constitution recognized the imperative of the rotational clause in the effort to ensure equity and justice in the country. Arguing that federal character is applicable to the presidency, Ohuabunwa said that the position must go round all the zones, adding that zoning enhanced development. He said that at this point in time, zoning of the presidency is necessary, explaining that it can be jettisoned when Nigeria achieves a certain level of advancement. He pointed out that sections of the country, particularly the south east will feel left out if they have no opportunity to produce the president of the country. He, therefore, advised the former ruling party not to change the rule in the middle of the game. POLL He said: “I’ve written in my book, ‘Nigeria, need for the evolution of a new nation,’ published in 2010, that given our level of political development, given our ethic diversity, lack of effort to unite us and harmonize us, given the differences that exist in religion, that we need to organize in a country in a manner that creates inclusiveness, that creates belongingness where we protect the majority, we protect the minority. “If we get to a point in our evolution as a nation, zoning and exclusion will become irrelevant. But the way it is today, you cannot have a wholesome nation if you do not have the opportunity to exclude and zone. “That’s why I think framers of the 1999 constitution as incompetent, as it is, provided for the federal character. “It’s not when it is your own turn that you say it’s your turn. When it’s another person’s turn, you say we should stop zoning. It cannot be done unilaterally. We all have to agree. “For example, PDP has in their constitution, rotation of power, moving it North and South. How can they come in the middle of the day and tell you stories? Legacy 600: Amaechi Planned To Convert State Assets To Personal… 2023: Nobody Can Undermine Southern Nigeria, Wike “I believe that one day zoning will end by doing what other climes did by accepting that you can be from anywhere once you meet the residency requirement and contest anywhere. “So the zoning is important for our grade and level of development. When we get to where we no longer care where people come from, then zoning will become irrelevant. “I support it being taken to the South East because right now the south East is one of the zones that has not received it, and since presidency is in the North, it should come to south and if it comes to south, the law of equity says it is South East.” Ohuabunwa, has, however, kicked against consensus candidacy, noting it will deny the country of the best materials for the presidency. He stated that interested persons must present themselves and Nigerians given the opportunity to select the best among them. Speaking on how he will tackle insecurity when elected, the presidential aspirant said, “I will secure the nation by investing on intelligence and technology. “We will use intelligence gathering to get where the insurgents are and deal with them using technology. “I will reorient our security forces by transforming and motivating them, assuring them that they are working for a nation that cherishes them and their sacrifice.”