There is nothing as frustrat­ing as trying to introduce an idea that is considered to be premature. In other words, when the timing of a good thing, such as the registration of po­litical party members by the ruling party at the center, APC, is deemed wrong, and the subsequent plans to incorporate into the nation’s elec­toral system, the exclusive use of direct primaries by political parties for producing candidates for gen­eral elections, as encapsulated in electoral Act amendment bill, 2021, (now vetoed by president Muham­madu Buhari) is also considered an anathema, then a case of double jeopardy arises. Given how the concept of reg­istration of APC party members nationwide and the resort to direct primaries as opposed to indirect pri­maries resonated amongst the polit­ically conscious Nigerians who be­lieve the introduction of registration of members and adoption of direct primaries could have deepened de­mocracy in our country, (but which are concepts adjudged to be ahead of their time by the demagogues, as such, the brilliant concepts got thrown back to the National Assem­bly, NASS, for a rework; our country is bound to be gripped by tension as is currently very palpable. As things currently stand, par­ticularly in the ruling party APC, a case of “things fall apart” amongst members, (apologies to Chinua Achebe, the author of a famous book by that title) may be imminent. The assertion above is underscored by the fact that it is becoming increas­ingly clear that the ruling party at the centre may no longer have the capacity to hold together its legion of legislators that are in the majority in the NASS and 21 of the 36 state gov­ernors across the country, as well as faithful members countrywide; who appear to be determined to paddle their own canoes rather than con­tinue to be bound by the herd men­tality foisted by the influence of the personal Charisma of President Muhammadu Buhari. Calling Aregbesola To Order Ika Nation: Fighting Widespread Socio-Cultural Decline, Searches… Apparently, President Buhari is the glue that has been holding the ruling party together since 2013-15 when the merger of the four leading opposition parties, ACN, CPC, ANPP, a bit of APGA, plus a splinter group from the then ruling party, PDP took place. But the glue is now too weak in light of the fact that President Bu­hari has barely 16 months to vacate Aso Rock Villa’s seat of presidential power. Evidently, the unity amongst the five legacy political parties that founded the All Progressive Con­gress, APC is being increasingly called to question as most of them are falling back to their individual and legacy ideologies. And it af­firms the reality that the APC has remained a political contraption populated by members with diver­gent philosophies and ideologies, even after about 7 years of occupying Aso Rock seat of presidential power and nearly 8 years of its formation as a political party. It is in the bid to avoid a descent to the current political cauldron in which the ruling party finds itself, that about two years ago the Nation­al Executive Committee, NEC got dissolved and replaced with a care­taker committee led by Mai Mala Buni, governor of Yobe state with John Akpanuduehehe as secretary. They were given the mandate to or­ganize a national convention of the party within six months. But it has taken nearly two (2) years to achieve the objective which may be realized on February 26. Since they received the mandate, the ad-hoc committee has had its tenure renewed twice with the prospect of organizing a convention remaining a mirage, (owing to implicit and complicit factors threatening to unhinge the party) until the February 26 date was eventually agreed. The prevailing anomie in the par­ty underscores the belief that long af­ter the desolation of the crisis-ridden former Edo state governor, Adams Oshiomhole led National Working Committee, NWC; the ruling party has been managed by an extraordi­nary caretaker committee for nearly two years, yet the APC has remained in quandary. Instead of dousing the fire which is like a molten magma that is boil­ing underneath a volcano that can’t wait to erupt; the crisis within APC seems to be degenerating in such a manner that the involvement of the caretaker committee can be charac­terised as jumping from frying pan to fire. The clear and present dan­ger is that a conflagration is being projected by party faithfuls and foes alike to engulf the party during or after the February 26 convention. POLL The reason for the sorry state of affairs in the ruling party is simply due to the fact that the spirit of unity of purpose that was the driving force for the politicians that came together to upstage the then ruling party, PDP in 2015, appear to have departed from the APC and it is currently replaced with disharmony that portend ca­tastrophe. That, in my judgment, largely has to do with the imminent exit (May 29, 2023) of the rallying force and alter ego of the party, Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari. In light of the underlying circum­stances, whatever the prism applied in assessing the situation, APC mala­dy is being fostered by what can best be described as affliction of leader­ship miasma. If nothing else, the tell­tale signs triggered by the controver­sial inauguration of the party’s state chairmen by the Mai Malla Buni led caretaker committee’s secretary Ak­padunehehe in Abuja, on Thursday, February 3, has advanced the immi­nent disintegration of the party. That is because that event ex­posed the wide cracks in the party in the states across the country which are the negative fallouts from the crisis-ridden party congresses that produced disputed executives across the country driven by power play between seating governors and their predecessors who are currently mainly senators hell bent on sharing power with their successors that as new leaders are equally intent on dominating the political environ­ment. The aggrieved members of the party are dismissing the exercise of handing certificates over to the pur­ported executives, who they allege are favored by the national caretaker committee, and therefore refer to the process as sham and exercise in futil­ity. They are even pointing out that they are already in court challeng­ing the outcome of the congresses. And the presentation of certificates to their opponents while the cases are in courts amount to contempt of court by the party. The vile comments by aggrieved party leaders from states across the country reflect the anomie in the ruling party. Meanwhile, PDP gov­ernors are also said to be in quan­dary as to whether or not to adjust their position about their presiden­tial candidate in 2023 coming from the south-a position which they had earlier taken. The reason they are having a rethink is in the light of the prevailing political dynamics in the country, whereby the southern governors from the main opposition and ruling parties, (shunning parti­sanship) are together in the clamor for a Nigerian president of southern origin in 2023. Male Infertility And Twenty-First Century Interventions Haute Couture: Nigerian Isy Obi: Pride Of Cayman Islands But with the existential reality tending not to support the insis­tence of southern governors that a southerner must take over from President Buhari in 2023, (as there seem not to be a ‘presidential ma­terial’ from the PDP formidable enough to challenge the yet to be identified APC candidate) they appear to be incoherent. While the main opposition party, PDP is grappling with its internal conflict of whether to settle for a southern or northern presidential candidate that has the capacity and ability, the ruling party at the center, APC has been unable to rise above the storm after it went through the first stage of FORMING after which it should go through the process of STORM­ING before NORMING, STABlLlZ­ING and MOURNING. These are the entity formation stages propounded by Bruce Tuck­man which I referenced in earlier media interventions where I pro­jected that the ruling political party would face the current challenges of putting its house in order; hav­ing been postponing the evil day by not holding its convention where all the interests of the multiple politi­cal parties that merged with the sole mission to defeat then ruling party, PDP would have been synthesized. In the essay, l identified the crisis that the APC would inevitably con­tend with and which could make or mar it. And the current malaise in APC affirms that position. Right now, the APC does not appear to have healed itself. That much hint was given by the outgoing leader of the party, President Buhari when he stated in a chat on NTA recently that the PDP may retake political power at the center from the APC if the leaders do not put their house in or­der. President Buhari’s explicit and declared concern elicits the natural question: is APC in death throes? Is it entering a MOURNING level of group formation and development stage as espoused by psychologist, Bruce Tuckman? Should we expect many more booby traps like the one that near­ly got sneaked in and which is the introduction of membership regis­tration exercise and the exclusive use of direct primaries as the sole process of producing candidates which could have given some states major advantages over and above others; and which is contrary to the existing rule contained in the consti­tution of the political parties where­by delegates are chosen via indirect primaries and makes delegates from all the states of the federation near­ly equally proportional, irrespective of whether they are from tiny states like Ebonyi or Zamfara and huge states such as Lagos and Kano? Clearly, February 26 would be a moment of truth for the ruling party at the centre as it comes face-to-face with its demons which it had been afraid to deal with. Remarkably, the APC, after its formation in 2013-15 via consolidation of five opposition political parties, has been suffering from abnormalities that l would like to characterise as Abnormal Growth Syndrome, AGS, (cross car­peting of governors and legislators to swell its ranks) which has com­pelled it to have the brain of a toddler in the body of a giant or the brain of a genus in the body of a dwarf, depending on who is making the assessment. Ultimately, the ruling party’s convention scheduled to hold in less than two weeks’ time, (even still in a tentative mode as l write) would determine whether the party has been able to scale all the stages of the entity formation phase, ex­cept the MOURNING stage and get transformed into a giant with a huge brain like that of an elephant or end up being a dwarf with a pear brain, of a Lilliputian hue. That is now the big issue occupy­ing the haunted minds of the appa­ratchiks at the helm of affairs of the ruling party at the center, APC. The negative effect on APC psyche of the imminent exit of president Buhari from the political scene on May 29, years next year reminds me of the way the spirit of God departed from Samson-a man imbued with colossal physical strength by God after Del­ilah, a whore shaved his hair, which was the secret of his power, as told in the Holy Bible.