LAGOS  – Fixit45, has partnered with leading ride-hailing platform, Bolt to provide its community of drivers with access to subscription-based plans that minimise potential mobility disruption and improves their chances of income optimization. This is in light of the pivotal role played by the mobility industry in the general, and ride-hailing segment in accelerating economic growth as well as driving shared prosperity, coupled with the need to sustain these mobility efforts, auto tech platform. This partnership is premised on Bolt’s dedication to redefining urban mobility by helping people move seamlessly and empowering partners to improve their earnings and Fixit45’s avowed commitment to building a seamless autocare & auto-repair, maintenance services, fleet management and so much more. How DBN’s Grants Of N439bn Credit Facility Will Boost 180… CDC/BII Partners FirstBank To Support Women, Small Business… The subscription-based service plan for drivers on the Bolt platform guarantees unfettered access to quality auto services that include autocare, vehicle repair and maintenance from Fixit45’s service network across the country. Other benefits include access to repair financing, discounts on spare parts, unlimited diagnosis, periodic car wash and tire services. CEO and Co-Founder, Fixit45, Justus Obaoye noted that given the enabling power of mobility as a critical success factor in stimulating advancement and development for both urban and rural economies, it is imperative that concerted efforts are made towards mitigating disruptions in that space. “As a platform that enhances mobility experiences, Fixit45 has collaboration in its DNA. As such, we are excited to partner with a market leader in the ride-hailing space in oiling the wheels of progress. This service plan ensures that drivers’ inactivity often occasioned by vehicle operational downtime is minimized while increased earnings, improved vehicle reliability, and quick service turnaround time are some of the perks that come with this partnership.