LAGOS – Philip Aivoji, former Commissioner in Lagos State  on Monday emerged the state chairman of Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the party congress conducted, defeating  five other aspirants for the position. The party congress which started on Sunday  by 11am with the accreditation of delegates did not end until the next day Monday by 6:05am which saw Aivoji emerging the state chairman by polling 839 votes, defeating his closest  rival Dr. Amos Fawole with a margin of 23 votes as he scored 816 votes. A total of 1,786 delegates were accredited for the congress. The congress nearly went rowdy as supporters of Fawole, made frantic move to reject the number of votes cast for Aivoji as they alleged that three of the chairmanship aspirants bear the same first name Philip with Aivoji and thereby insinuated that the votes of others were counted in favour of Aivoji, because in order to make the counting of votes easy, the returning officer  pronounced Aivoji’s first name instead of reading out his full name. APC Chieftain Wants Election Dates Permanent In Nation’s… Nwafor-Orizu Emerges PDP Chairman In Anambra When the allegation was lodged with the chairman of the electoral Committee, Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State ordered the recounting of all votes, and Aivoji carried the day. When the ballots were recounted and the name was read out as written on the ballot paper, it was affirmed  that no error was committed in the counting of the votes, it was then the fears of Fawole supporters were allayed Declaring Aivoji the winner of the congress Governor Diri said, “I hereby announce the result, we have six candidates for the chairmanship position and Philip Olabode Aivoji pulled 839 votes to emerge the winner, and I  hereby declare Philip Aivoji as the chairman for Lagos PDP.” Governor Diri also urged members of the party to be United and work for its success so, that the party can produce the next governor of the state come 2023. Upon his declaration as the winner of the congress his supporters went  ecstatic and the hall, venue of the congress became rancorous. POLL The initial plan of some leaders of the party was to have a consensus list of members of the executive council for the state. Many meetings were held with leaders of the party in the state, which also  involved the leaders of the party at the regional and at the national level to reach an agreement. The congress was postponed for about four times to enable members agree on consensus list, but it does not gel, as some of the aspirants have started portraying themselves as consensus candidate. Governor Diri committee also made effort to make the party leaders in the state have a common front on the list of candidates, majority of the leaders agreed, but when the position was presented to the delegates, it was rebuffed, and so the committee opted to go for the congress. Others that emerged victorious at the Congress were  Benedict Felix Tai who polled 852 to emerged the state Deputy Chairman.