The Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) introduced a N50 billion targeted credit facility in March 2020. The objective was to assist Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) to minimise the negative impact of COVID-19 on their operations. The facility was disbursed by NIRSAL Microfinance Bank and about 400,000 people benefited from the facility. However, the management of NIRSAL Microfinance Bank has called for the repayment of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) COVID-19 loans obtained by several entrepreneurs across the nation. Olamilekan: Creating Wealth, Opportunities Through Beading… LSETF Lauds Google’s Initiative Aimed At Empowering SMEs,… The financial institution disclosed this recently, asking beneficiaries of the loan to begin to pay back. The microfinance bank said it has played its own part and it was time for the business owners, who took the loans to do theirs. It stated, “NMFB loan repayment: We have played our part, it is your turn now to pay back the loan.” Mr. Segun Kuti-George, the immediate past chairman of the Lagos chapter of National Association of Small Scale Industries (NASSI), while speaking on the move by the microfinance to recover the loans, said the bank should give entrepreneurs more time because of the difficulties in the Nigerian economy. He said that small businesses are still feeling the impact of the pandemic and that they are finding it hard to generate revenue and make profit. POLL He stated,”I am not unaware of the COVID-19 funds for small businesses but how many people access it? If we want to ensure that the funds get to the people that actually need them, it is very important that key members of Business Management Organizations be involved in these things because they know one another. They understand the environment; they know where the shoe pinches and know what to do to help small businesses thrive. It is not enough to study banking and finance to understand the needs of businesses in the country. There is a need to understand the people who need to borrow and how it can be effectively disbursed.” On his part, Mr Femi Ayodele, a baker in Agege suburb of Lagos State, said he applied for the loan and was not given. He disclosed that a friend of his who got the loan was not able to put it to good use because of the harsh economic situation in the country. He argued that asking his fiend to repay the loan would crumble his business and called on the bank to give beneficiaries more to repay.