LAGOS  – The Federal Govern­ment has said that no fewer than 1. 350 million inter­national passport booklets were printed and distribut­ed in 2021, a figure, which almost doubled the 2020 performance. Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, the Minister of Interior, made the disclosure at a virtual event organised by the Lagos Business School (LBS) Forum with the theme: ‘Nigeria in Challenging Times: The Con­tributions of the Ministry of Interior and Opportunities for Private Sector Participa­tion’ over the weekend. The virtual event is part of LBS Public Sector Engage­ment designed to promote more public-private sector dialogue and partnership to enhance Nigeria’s inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development. NiMET Warns Of Extreme Heats As Temperature Rises Across States Yobe Commends AFRYDEV For Training GBV Survivors Aregbesola maintained that the ministry was aware of challenges faced by ap­plicants and was working tirelessly to alleviate them, pointing out that the ongo­ing passport reforms across the different passport offices in the federation would be a continuous process until all Nigerians could seamlessly and effortlessly apply and get their passports. He said: “1,350,000 passport booklets were produced and distributed worldwide as at December 31st 2021, against 764,293 booklets in 2020. The current experience will soon be a thing of the past. We are working very hard to reform the passport application and issuance process. “This reform is going to be a continuous process. We want to significantly enhance the integrity of the Nigerian Passport by ensuring that non-Nigerians are not able to obtain it. We also want to bring passport service closer to the people as much as pos­sible and eliminate touting and corruption in the pro­cess.” He added that the ministry was working to identify un­scrupulous elements within the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and has initi­ated a whistleblowing and mystery shopping process to catch such officers unawares. He also stated that the Ni­geria Visa Policy launched in 2020 has expanded the visa category from six to 79 and simplified the application process. POLL He said the policy was leading to the adoption of best practices and ensuring that Visas are granted to fit the main purpose of travel.