ONITSHA – Leadership of Ochanja Central Market, Onitsha led by the President, Hon. Sunday Aniakor has commended the peaceful disposition of Gov. Willie Obiano which they noted has restored peace to the market. Sunday Aniakor made the commendation while interacting with our correspondent in his office at the weekend in Onitsha Anambra State. According to the market President,”Ochanja Central Market has been under leadership crisis for years now, but for the intervention of the State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano and the Commissioner for Commerce, Trade and Wealth Creation, Chief Uchenna Okafor “. Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Confirmation Of Gumus, APC Member As INEC Commissioner, Coup… He disclosed that both the Governor and the Commissioner had worked tirelessly towards restoring peace to the volatile market. The market leader affirmed it was after proper investigation and wise counsel of the Commissioner that brought about the current leadership in Ochanja Central Market. Hon.Aniakor explained that his mission as the market interim leader was to reconcile all warring factions and make the market comfortable for traders and their businesses. While refuting rumour of a collapsed ongoing structure in the market, the market leader described it as false, stressing that no action of detractors in the market would destract him from leaving laudable legacies in Ochanja Market. He further stated that distribution of water to strategic places in the market from the market’s water bore-bole was his major concern so as to alleviate sufferings faced by traders in the area. POLL The market boss who disclosed his plans for the development of the strategic market, however, commended Gov. Obiano for his development strides in the State even as he hoped that the incoming Governor of the state, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo would continue from where the Governor stopped and even perform better when he assumes leadership of the state on March 17. Subsequently, Chairman, Anambra State Stakeholders and Elders Forum, Chief Oliver Nwankwo who is a trader in Ochanja Market has denied an alleged report of a building collapse in the market. Chief Nwankwo who spoke to our correspondent in Onitsha at the weekend said that the propaganda was initiated by a few ambitious traders in the whose sole objective was to destabilize the market.He described them as “APC agents who are working assiduously to cause problems for the incoming Government of Prof.Chukwuma Soludo”. When this reporter visited the scene on Saturday it was gathered that no such incident took place, but a minor collapse of a staircase which was still under construction. There was no evidence of injury nor death sustained by any person as earlier rumoured by the public.