ABUJA – The House of Representatives on Wednesday called on the Federal Government to, as matter of urgency, declares a national emergency on ritual killings in Nigeria. The House also called on the National Orientation Agency, parents, heads of schools, religious leaders and the media to undertake a campaign to change the negative narrative that is bedeviling the society. The House resolution equally asked the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to take urgent steps in increasing surveillance and intelligence gathering with a view to apprehending and prosecuting all perpetrators of ritual killings in Nigeria. Reps Move To Recover N1.2trn Unpaid Govt Funds Fraud: Reps Seek 20 Years Jail Term For Criminal Bank Staff In… Also put to task by the House is the Executive Director, National Film and Video Censors Board, who was asked to rise to the mandate of the agency as the Clearing House for all movies produced in Nigeria which promote ritual killings in the country. These followed the adoption of a motion of Urgent Public Importance on the “need to curb the rising trend of Ritual Killing in Nigeria”, brought by the Deputy Minority Leader, Hon. Toby Okechukwu. Moving the motion, Hon. Okechukwu said the incidents of ritual killings have assumed an alarming proportion in Nigeria in recent times. He said, “the upsurge of reported ritual killings with increasing cases of abductions and missing persons in different parts of the country, which in most cases, the culprits also rape, maim, kill and obtain sensitive body parts of unsuspecting victims for rituals. Further Notes that the Red Cross Society in 2017 reported that it received 10,480 reports of missing persons in Nigeria.” He recalled that “on January 22, 2022, three teenage suspects and a twenty-year-old reportedly killed one Sofiat Kehinde and had her head severed and burnt in a local pot in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Also aware that Ogun State Police Command on Monday, February 7, 2022, reported that one of the suspects confessed that he learned the act of ritual killing from a video he watched on Facebook.” POLL “The death of Sofiat has attracted national outrage and condemnation considering the ages of her killers. Also Aware that merchants of such wicked acts often use social media as a ready tool to advertise their evil behaviors. “The grievous killing of Iniobong Umoren, a young woman in her 20s; after being lured to a particular location in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State for a job interview, as widely reported in the national dailies.Also recalls the gruesome killings and heinous activities of Badoo Boys in Lagos State, which was also reported in the national dailies. “Ritual killing has become a predominant theme in most home-made movies which if not checked, our younger generation may begin to view it as an acceptable norm. Further Aware of several reports where law enforcement agents arrested and paraded suspects of ritual killings with gory pictures of human skulls and dismembered bodies. Also Aware that fake clerics, imams, herbalists and native doctors are often complicit in the heinous practices. “Although our communities are getting more religious with the proliferation of churches and mosques, the ugly trend of ritual killing is on the rise as the quest for wealth at all cost pervades our society. Worried that while youths in other climes are embracing science and technology as a way of maintaining pace with our dynamic world, some of our youths seem stuck in the mistaken belief that sacrificing human blood is the surest route to wealth, safety and protection. “Such cruel and barbaric acts should no longer be promoted in our society given the demands of today’s world. Also worried about the growing rate of unemployment in the country. Subsidy: Reps To Probe Daily Fuel Consumption Volume In Nigeria UPDATE: Reps Adopt Direct/Indirect Primary In Electoral Bill “Alarmed by the moral decadence in our society, a trend that has promoted the get-rich-quick syndrome among our youths. Mindful of the role of the Nigerian movie industry in moulding behavioral patterns in our society vis-a-vis the mandate of the National Film and Video Censors Board as a clearinghouse for movies produced in the country. “A lot needs to be done by the Police and other law enforcement agencies to checkmate this ugly trend. Mindful of the roles of parents, schools, religious leaders, and the urgent need to curb the increasing rate of ritual killings and other related vices. Also mindful of the role of media as a tool to change this wrong narrative among our youths,” Okechukwu said. The House in adopting the prayers, however, mandated its Committees on Police Affairs, Information, National Orientation, Ethics and Values to investigate and report back to the House within four (4) weeks.