. PDP Fast Losing Ground – Lawani MAKURDI – The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Benue State has inaugurated its state officials to run activities of the party in the state for the next four years. The party has also declared that the recent decamping from other political parties to the APC is a sign of the imminent collapse of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Rumblings In Abia APC: Kalu Calls For Calm, Says Defection Won’t… APC Youth Mobilise Over 30,000 Young People, Make Bold Demands… Stephen Lawani, the immediate past Deputy Governor of the state, disclosed this while speaking at Zakibiam, Ukum Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, where members of several political parties, including the former chairman of the LG, Iberlogo Tor Tyokyaa dumped PDP for APC. Lawani who is also a gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the APC in the state observed that the mass defections that have hit the PDP and other political parties in the state were a clear indication that the PDP was fast losing ground in the state. His words: “The defections, clearly is the beginning of the collapse of PDP in Benue,” Lawani declared. Iberlogo who spoke on behalf of the decampees said he was happy to be back to the fold of the APC, just as he pledged that he would work with the party to come out victorious in the 2023 elections. Meanwhile, during the inauguration of state officials of the APC, led by Comrade Austin Agada, the party stated that the 2023 elections was the right time to reclaim Benue from the PDP, which he pointed out has performed abysmally. POLL Agada succeeds Comrade Abba Yaro following the expiration of the tenure of Yaro, who steered the affairs of the party in the state for about eleven years. However, the National Executive of the party had earlier sworn Agada into office, Agada in turn performed the swearing-in of other party officials at the state APC secretariat in Makurdi on Wednesday. Speaking at the occasion, Comrade Agada, commended the leader of the party Senator George Akume for ensuring that APC in Benue remained strong and united, even as he stated his resolve to rebuild the party and “reclaim the mandate of APC” in the 2023 elections. He said, “We thank God today for the gift of life and inauguration of the state executive to run the party for four years.We also commend the leader of our party Senator George Akume for ensuring that the APC in Benue remains strong. “We are not the best but our election was made possible by God and stakeholders who had stood behind us to attain this position. APC UK Calls For Postponement Of Party’s February Convention￼ Arson: Obasanjo Withdraws Investment From Benue “My team and I will leverage on past achievement of the party to ensure its successes. “My first assignment as chairman is to reconcile aggrieved members and bring back those who left our fold again to achieve victory in 2023. “From today, I declare the broom revolution and urge all party faithful to be disciplined, to promote peace, unity and justice, on which the foundation of the party was built,” he added. Senator George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs appreciated the support given to him by members of the APC in the state. Represented by his wife Regina Akume, the Minister said it was time to move and restore the dignity of APC, which has been patient and endured all manner from the present administration. He said the APC will reclaim the state in 2023, adding that by May 2023, before the primaries, the party would be exploding with membership rise.