BIRNIN KEBBI – In continuation of activities lined up by the Federation of Muslim women association of Nigeria FOMWAN to formally mark a symbolic world hijab day, on Sunday held a public lecture with other women groups in Kebbi state.The open lecture which was held at the presidential lodge in Birnin Kebbi was attended by the council of Ulamas executives of the association and a huge number of women. Dr. Muhammad Mujtaba a deputy rector of Waziri Umaru federal polytechnic Birnin Kebbi who presented a paper on the importance of hijab highlighted key benefits of wearing hijab which include preservation of chastity of women, hijab help women to be identified as to which religion she belongs to. He stated further that women who wear hijab are protected against randy men, adding that hijab transcends covering as total submission to God also means hijab. Hijab: Oyo  Denies Altering Policy On Freedom Of Religion 2022: Muslim Women Won’t Be Spectators In Ekiti Politics… Dr. Mujtaba noted that scientific research indicated that hijab-wearing protect wearers from cancer and other forms of diseases therefore even none Muslims can benefit from it, he warned women to desist from dressing seductively to seduce men because it is not permitted in Islam. Dr Zainab Bagudu represented by honourable Zara,u Wali special adviser on women affairs and social development in her message admonished parents to guide the girl-child on decent dressing to protect themselves against any form of sexual violence saying immodest dressing among both university and secondary schools student from the female gender is contributing to rape and gender-based violence which the first lady herself is an advocate against gender-based violence in Kebbi state and beyond.Honourable Za,aru added that Muslim women must dress decently while attending weddings or any occasion as they will stand out as God-fearing and as well brought up children, she pledged the first lady’s unwavering support to FOMWAN Kebbi whom she said are already partners in progress. In her speech, the permanent secretary of Ministry for Women Affairs and social development Kebbi state Hajia Aisha Muhammad Maikurata described hijab-wearing as the best form of dressing for women because it serves as protection to them ” I am aware alot of women are afraid to wear it due to the improper treatment they get at workplaces and at function but that should not deter them from using hijab, no law in the country that prohibit hijab so Muslim women must not be forced into dressing nakedly, even some Christians do wear it because it makes women responsible but for Muslim Women is compulsory she said. According to her FOMWAN have registered with the ministry so they work hand in hand on issues of religion and the welfare of women in Kebbi state they are our long-term allies” we wish them well and we congrats women on his special day and occasion.