**Says Move Will Ensure Justice And Equity ABUJA – The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been asked to give Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom States, positions in the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). This, the party has been told will ensure equity and justice as Rivers, Edo and Cross Rivers States have all produced members of the APC NWC in the past. Supreme Court: PDP Mocks APC As Ruling Party Members Bicker Over… BREAKING: Supreme Court Ruling: APC Youths Ask Buni, CECPC To… The demand was made by the South-south Emerging Leaders’ Forum (SELF) on Thursday in Abuja. In a statement, SELF National Coordinator, Barrister Preye Wilson, said allowing Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom to also have a taste of the APC NWC positions of the ruling party will bring about unity and justice in the party. He explained that “as a frontline South-south social-political organisation, we believe in justice, equity and development of our people. Our intervention in the sharing of APC NWC positions to be zoned to South-south is to ensure that justice is done to states that are yet to be represented in the party leadership at the national level. “It is on record that Edo State has produced two immediate-past National Chairmen in persons of Chief John Oyegun and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Rivers state has produced Deputy National Secretary in the person of Oji Ngofa and Chief Victor Giadom, and Cross Rivers has also produced the South-south Zonal Vice Chairman, in the person of Chief Hilliard Eta. All the aforementioned were members of APC National Working Committee, leaving Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom out of the arrangement since the party was formed in 2013. “Although the current acting National Secretary of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe is from Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Delta have never tasted the NWC positions.” POLL The group called on South-South party leaders to close rank as that the zone will be better for it if its leaders speak with one voice. This is as they further asked “that APC leaders from the South-south should bury their differences and work in unity for the progress of our region because the Niger Delta region will be better for it if our leaders in the ruling APC speak with one voice. We, therefore call on the party leaders, especially in the South-south region to see reasons why Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom should be given a fair treatment and a sense of belonging by equitably allowing them to have their own taste of APC NWC positions as the party prepares for its National Convention slated for 26th of March, 2022.”