ASABA – The once sweet-sour rela­tionship between the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, a topflight member representing Delta North in the red chamber, peaked on June 24, 2021 when the party suspended the latter for “anti-party” activ­ities. The suspension followed the alleged unholy alliance between the Senator, a former chairman of the party in the state, and the op­position All Progressive Congress (APC). The PDP hierarchy in Del­ta had accused Senator Nwaboshi of frolicking with the opposition, the ruling party at the centre, in search of a soft landing after be­ing stuck in a mire of court cases involving the Economic & Finan­cial Crimes Commission (EFCC), in the hope of a reprieve from the federal government. That was, however, not his only travail, as people close to the pow­er game in the zone readily point to a cold war brewing between him and the incumbent governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, who also repre­sented the zone between 2011-2015 before his election as governor. The frosty relationship between Nwaoboshi and his predecessor, leading to his eventual expulsion from the party, sources say, has to do with Okowa’s desire to reclaim the Senatorial seat, a bid the cur­rent occupant is understandably uncomfortable with. Confirmed Man United XI Vs Leeds Queen Has Tested Positive For Covid-19 Many draw attention to the fact that Nwaboshi was on several oc­casions absent from important meetings of PDP stakeholders in the state among the series of body language that confirmed that the relationship had since gone awry following the eventual exit of Sen­ator Nwaoboshi from the party. The final sign that the rela­tionship between Senator Nwao­boshi and the PDP had become irretrievably damaged was the verbal attack on the party when he, accompanied by the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (who represents Del­ta Central), visited Illah, Delta North, for a meeting of APC stal­warts in the area. At the meeting, Nwaoboshi attempted to ridicule his former party and allies in the leadership of the state PDP, when in a no-holds barred, he launched a tirade on his predecessor and incumbent governor. According to him, no Senator representing Delta North has ever delivered dividends of democra­cy to the Anioma people as he had done, in veiled reference to Okowa, who is from the extreme side of the zone – Ika. He, therefore, used the “opportunity to challenge everyone in government that in the election of 2023, they should come and say what they have done in Illah, because I will come to say what I have done”. At the April 2021 event, Nwao­boshi had insisted, despite the verbal assault on the governor, that “I am still a member of the PDP but where my interest lies is where I will go.” But he was soon suspended. Reacting, the Peoples Democrat­ic Party did not hesitate to remind the estranged Senator that he rode on its back to secure his position as Senator in the 2015 and 2019 elections. POLL Sunday Independent recalls that Prince Ned Nwoko, 62, a law­yer, politician, philanthropist, and member of the House of Repre­sentatives (Nigeria) between 1999 and 2003, narrowly lost the PDP ticket for the Delta North District poll in 2019 in what he described as an election rigged by the party leaders in favour of his opponent, Nwaoboshi, at the primaries. That notwithstanding, Nwoko, who has not held any political office since he left the House of Represen­tatives in 2007, remains a party faithful. Replying the ex-party chieftain, Olorogun Kingsley Esiso, who re­placed Nwaoboshi as Chairman of the party in the state, noted that his immediate predecessor had scant electoral value and was indeed incapable of winning any election without the influence of the PDP, as if to corroborate the claim by Nwoko. Whilst issues of anti-party activities by Senator Nwaoboshi cannot be waved aside, just as his troubles with the EFCC, he was also accused of verbal reck­lessness against the governor. In an exclusive interview last year, Nwaoboshi, in his analysis of the Delta PDP political terrain, described himself, Chief James Ibori, and Senator James Manag­er as those at the forefront of the polity in the state. He urged people to discountenance the governor’s claim that there was no gentle­man’s arrangement in the party about rotating the governorship seat across the three senatorial districts to ensure none is left out. Meanwhile, it is yet to be seen how the new found romance with the ruling APC would yield any political dividend for Nwaoboshi, given that the zone has remained loyal to the PDP from inception, pulling its weight by way of mas­sive votes for PDP candidates at ev­ery election. Those who disagree point to Delta Central which was always also PDP until it slipped into the grip of the opposition par­ty where it has remained till date. In 1999, for example, Chief Pat­rick Osakwe, a candidate of the Accord Party, which was then deemed to be an appendage of the PDP represented the district between 1999 and 2011, before the incumbent governor replaced him and was in the red chamber for four years, handing over to Nwaoboshi who has now spent two terms in office. Aregbesola Faces Upset In Crucial Osun APC Primary After 125 years, Oba Of Benin Receives Two Looted Artefacts Although precedents do not fa­vour the former state party chair­man, who is no longer in the par­ty hierarchy in Delta North, 2023 may be an opportunity to test his claim of being a grassroots poli­tician, and his popularity against any candidate put forward by the ruling party in February next year, even as Governor Okowa is yet to formally declare his inten­tion to return to a senate that has long been the retirement home of state governors from across the country. There are currently 25 ex-governors in the ninth assem­bly, accounting for about 23 per­cent of the total 109 seats in the chamber. While there are states with two ex-governors as serving senators, for example, Abia in the South-East, has the record of two former governors and a dep­uty governor occupying the three constitutionally available seats. They are Senators Uzor Orji Kalu (1999-2007) and Theodore Ahame­fule Orji (2007- 2015), as well as Enyinnaya Harcourt Abaribe (former deputy governor). States with two ex-governors include Kano and Nasarawa. In the wake of the defection of Senator Nwaoboshi, there have been calls from several quarters of Delta North for Prince Nwoko to recontest for the position in the forthcoming election. But he has maintained a stoic calmness, pre­ferring instead to quietly spear­head the malaria eradication scheme across the country. The recent inauguration of Chief Omeni Sobotie, as factional APC chairman at the party sec­retariat in Asaba, offered Nwao­boshi, supported by Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, another opportunity to send a message to those who may want to scare him from the race, when he boasted that the Delta North seat, now withdrawn from the PDP, just as in Delta Cen­tral, will remain with the APC even after 2023. “Okowa said he wants to go back to the Senate, but God has withdrawn the seat of the Del­ta North from PDP to APC,” he stressed, threatening to expose his former party, should there be any attempt to showcase its rig­ging prowess in 2023. “Let me assure you that there is nothing they plan that we do not know. There is no rigging spot of PDP that I do not know. They are sending rams and register­ing goats across the state now. On election day, I will see how these rams and goats will vote,” he jeered at his former allies. The senator denied specula­tions that he is a mole in the APC, assuring that “I have no intention of going back to PDP, but I have the intention to defeat PDP in the 2023 general election.” No matter with which lens it is viewed, the Delta North Senato­rial election would be a battle of juggernauts, come 2023 there will be a show of strength between the frontline candidates of the main parties – the former occupant, Governor Okowa, and the current occupant of the office, Senator Nwaoboshi. Nwaboshi would be banking on using tricks employed by his former party against it in a bid to confirm the claim that he rode on the back of Okowa into the Senate, while Okowa, popu­larly known across the state as ‘the road master’ on account of the number of road projects he has undertaken in the past eight years, should have no difficulty garnering votes. For now, both major parties have their hands full at the centre. The Delta North APC is factional­ized, while at the federal level it is having to deal with issues around legitimacy following its failure to organize a national convention since the March 5, 2020 ouster of the Adam Oshiomhole-led Na­tional Working Committee. It is a straight fight between the governor, who is angling for a return ticket to the hallowed chamber, and a former party chairman in the state, who is out to prove that he knows all the tricks in the bag for winning elections. The events that occur in the months ahead would certainly tell who is master of the game between the two gladiators, even as Omo-Agege has his eyes on Government House, Asaba.