LAGOS  – The Director General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria Mallam Farouk Salim, has suggested support to local industries as the panacea for the myriad of security and economic issues bedeviling the nation. He made this statement during a facility visit to the premises of African Natural Resources and Mines Limited located at Gujeni, Kagarko Local Government Area of Kaduna state. The Director General re-emphasised his message on the need to protect Nigerian industries in order to guarantee the protection, safety, greatness and progress of the Nation and its people. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Vbank Unveils Thompson Avenue Roundabout, Ikoyi He said that industrialisation and the protection of local industries have been the consistent message he has been preaching since the assumption of duties a little over a year ago, on how the country can be great, safe and progressive, protected and respected. According to Salim, Nigeria is blessed with enormous natural and human resources that need investments to harness the inherent benefits with it’s attendant multiplier effect on individuals, families, communities, companies and the national economy as a whole. He emphasized: “One of the reasons the Nation is battling insecurity is the lack of adequate protection for local industries leading to shut down, loss of jobs and income, which leads some into criminal activities.” He postulated that gainful employment will provide regular disposable income for the citizen’s wellbeing, payment of personal and company taxes, self-respect and dignity thus discouraging banditry, terrorism, cultism, separatism and generally social vices. Salim commended the African Industries, the parent company of African Natural Resources and Mines (ANRML) for believing in Nigeria and re-investing millions of dollars in the country even 50 years, thus contributing in no small measure to the nation’s gross domestic product. POLL He described ANRML investment as one of the largest in the Nation currently, outside the Oil and Gas sector, stressing that their production of high quality products under SON guidance would be for local consumption and export thus attracting the much needed foreign exchange for the Nation. “It is therefore, SON’s priority to make the Nigerian industry an entity safe for the workers, competitive for the investors and producing quality goods to meet the needs of our large population and export to the huge potential markets in the West African region with technical support and guidance.” Mallam Salim called on prospective investors to emulate the ANRML and become part of the journey to improve the lives of Nigerians while also enjoying high returns on their investment. Alok Gupta, Group Managing Director, African Industries, while welcoming the SON Director General to the Gujeni Integrated Iron Ore Mining and Processing Project site, commended SON’s role in making Nigerian products globally competitive through its quality assurance activities that help to build consumer confidence for products certified by the Organisations.