The member representing Yewa South/Ipokia Federal Constituency of Ogun State, Hon Kolawole Lawal has advised that the issue of zoning should be shelved ahead of the 2023 general elections adding that the issue of zoning will not give Nigeria the desired results as a country. The lawmaker gave the advice on Monday while speaking during the ‘Correspondents’ Roundtable’  organized by the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), FCT Council, with the theme: “2023 and the zoning question”. He argued that the issue of zoning is not a constitutional matter and that Nigerians across political divide have not been sincere with it so far, adding that if Nigerians had been sincere with it, there is a particular reference in the Constitution that would have clearly taken care of it. 2023 Presidential Election: Support Younger Nigerians From… UPDATE: 2023 Presidential Election Holds Feb 25, 2023 He addd that since Nigerians are not sincere with the issue of zoning and that it is not well backed by law, it cannot be proudly fought for. According to him “What I have always said on zoning is that we have zoning at the convention, its like it is almost becoming a tradition. But it is not a constitutional matter; either in the 1999 constitution amended or the active constitution. “If there is sincerity in the issue of zoning, nobody would come out today from the Northern part of Nigeria to say they want to contest the 2023 presidential election of Nigeria. Even the PDP that started it, I am not sure it is in their constitution. If it is required in their constitution, like today now, Atiku will not be waiting to contest. In fact, yesterday he was in Ogun State, where he said he was going to come out soon. “That is why I said there is no sincerity with the issue of zoning, and it is not on solid foundation, and therefore, not sacrosanct, even by those who say that they are practicing it. “For instance, if you ask any PDP person today, they will say: “there is no issue of zoning, we want somebody that is competent, which is true, a competent person that can take Nigeria out of the woods, and there is no issue of zoning. That is why I said, yes, there is zoning but it is not documented, it is not something that can be proudly fought for. POLL “I have said it clearly that there is a particular reference in the Constitution that clearly took care of zoning. That is federal character principle. That is why it is established in the Constitution in Section 153(1C). Also for equitability and fair distribution of resources, we have Section 14(3), Section 147(3), Section 171(5), those should have taken care of issues surrounding equitable and fair distribution of resources and political appointments. Lawal explained that since  the issues around federal character very well have not implemented , that is the reason people are still talking about revolution and  zoning.He said Nigeria did not need a new law, that there are laws capable of solving the myriads of problems confronting the nation if well implemented. He therefore blamed the agitations by various ethnic groups on the poor implementation of the existing laws. ” Nigeria will be better off. We do not need new laws; we can be doing some amendments but we have all the laws that we need. But because of bad or poor implementation, that is why we are having agitation all over the place. “The Federal Character Commission is established to look at the issues around the fact that everybody must be represented in all that we do. There would not be problems with the issue of zoning if we are we observing the federal character principle. 2023: Why Ambitious Appointed Public Officials Must Resign-… 2023: Niger Governor Joins Call For Younger President “Normally, there should be a level playing ground for everybody so that we can have good candidates that can take Nigeria to where we want it to be. Somebody that is strong enough to handle Nigeria the way it should be handled. “But because of the issue of zoning, I am not saying that when you have zoning you will not have people like that, but when you have a level playing ground, you will have what we can call best. We are not saying zoning will not provide that, but if we have a larger horizon, we should be able to get something better. That is why I have said zoning for me will not give us what we desire as a country”. He also  stressed further that on the issue of power shift, the South East ordinarily should have the privilege of producing the president of Nigeria come 2023.