LAGOS – As part of its efforts to support good health and well-being amongst children, and fight malnutrition in Nigeria, iconic food brand, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FMN) owners of the iconic food brand, ‘Golden Penny’ has introduced “Amaizing Day” breakfast cereal product with “The Power of 4” focused on child nutrition in Nigerian homes. “The Power of 4” Amaizing Day cereal aims at providing the four essential nutrients which are Calcium, Protein, Vitamin A and Vitamin E for children. While malnutrition is one of the world’s major public health and development concerns, UNICEF records that Nigeria has the second highest burden of stunted children in the world with a national prevalence rate of 32 percent of children under five , that is, 5 in every 10 children under five years  suffer from the effects of  malnourishment, and an estimated 2 million children in Nigeria suffer from severe acute malnutrition (SAM). How Domestic Savings For Capital Formation, Investment Can Grow… Abbey Mortgage Bank Lists Additional 3.69bn Ordinary Shares On… To avert the overarching negative consequences on the lives of children, Golden Penny has taken the initiative to introduce the Amaizing Day product that meets children’s nourishment needs and satisfies their taste at a reasonable price. Oluwatooni Odewole, the Category Manager, in a statement said:  “We believe that the optimal cognitive and physical growth of a child is proportional to how nourished he/she is. “Our passion to nurture the future of our great nation is one of our driving forces to making sure consumers get the best quality and nutritious food. Therefore, we have manufactured this product with natural ingredients that aid growth and development by building a healthy body and strong bones in children.” Bisi Idowu, the Marketing Director, while speaking on the price point of the latest addition in the food brand, and how it tackles the current economic challenges, stated that ‘the purchasing power of an average Nigerian home was considered’, thus the need to set a more affordable, pocket friendly price for consumers. “We have been around for decades to understand the challenges of our country. With global reports on stunted growth in Nigeria, we discovered there aren’t many affordable nutritious food products for children that will help them grow, and this is the narrative we are changing”, he said POLL “As Nigeria continues to tackle public health issues, ensure sustainable consumption, and builds a healthier society, Golden Penny reiterates its commitment to good food and daily nourishment for all. “We are dedicated to serving Nigerian families and to contributing robustly to their good health and well-being, particularly children,” he said.