*Recovers 5 AK-47, 1 Pump Action Rifle, Others MAKURDI – Troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), the military spike operation in Benue said, it has neutralised a militia gang leader in Benue, Iortyom Wuave aka Janta, who is on the wanted list of OPWS. OPWS explained that the operation that led to eliminating the gang leader took place at Tse Mela in Yooyo council ward of Katsina-Ala Local Government Area (LGA) of the state on Thursday. Association Announces Hike In Sachet Water Price In Ekiti Supreme Court Voids Kwara State Government’s Land Seizure The spike operation also noted that it eliminated two other bandits on its wanted list, Terdoo Kiorga, aka Apaapa and Orkulam Mom, aka Orbutee at Tse Jundo, Mbamena council ward of Ukum LGA of the state. In a statement made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Sunday and signed by the Public Relations Officer (PRO), OPWS, Flight Officer, Audu Katty observed that the duo, Mom and Mbamena were the most dangerous foot soldiers of late Terwase Akwaza a.k.a Gana. He explained that the operation is in continuation to its bid to intensify the fight against criminal armed gangs and sundry banditry in its Joint Operation Area (JOA) covering Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states. Katty said, “Troops achieved yet another major success in the early hours of Friday, 25th February, 2022 when they raided the hideout of notorious armed bandits at Tse Jundo, Mbamena council ward in Ukum LGA of Benue state. “During the operation, two armed bandits were neutralized by troops in a shootout. They are: Terdoo Kiorga aka Apaapa and Orkulam Mom alias Orbutee. POLL “The duo and others who were the most dangerous foot soldiers of late Terwase Akwaza a.k.a Gana have been on the wanted list of OPWS. They were known to have unleashed mayhem on Zaki Biam and environs in the past. “The items recovered in the hideout included 5 AK-47 rifles, 1 pump action rifle, 3 AK-47 magazines, 127 x 5.56mm rounds, 12 cartridges, 5 cell phones and assorted charms.” On the process that led to eliminating Janta, Katty said, “The renewed intensity has resulted in the destruction of many bandits camps in the past few days. “Notably, on 24th February, 2022 at about 1500hrs, while on fighting patrol, troops responded to a distress call at Tse Mela in Yooyo council ward of Katsina-Ala LGA on sighting Iortyom Wuave aka Janta, a notorious armed militia gang leader on OPWS wanted list. “Troops swiftly mobilized and moved to the location; on sighting our troops, he (Janta) fired in the direction of the troops as he tried to escape into the nearby bush and was neutralized during the engagement”, he expatiated.