Following the Sunday morning fire incident that destroyed commodities worth millions of naira at the Atakumosa Central Market, Ilesa, the Government of Osun state has sympathised with the community and shop owners, describing the incident as tragic, sad and painful. This was contained in a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode. Osun government bemoaned the development, saying that it was an unfortunate situation happening at a time the government was committed to economic development and prosperity of the State. Oyetola Releases Another N958m To Pay Pensioners In Osun Over 400 Corpses Burnt As Fire Guts Mortuary In Anambra It, however, assured that investigations have been initiated to ascertain the cause of the fire outbreak in a bid to forestall a recurrence. Osun government also enjoined citizens to be more safety-conscious in their handling of electrical appliances and other things that can trigger a fire outbreak. The sad incident, which affected about 13 lock-up shops, and destroyed goods and property worth millions of Naira, started at the Post Office section of the market in the early hours of  Sunday, according to eyewitnesses. Federal and Osun State Fire Services officers were however able to fight the inferno before it could spread to the other parts of the market. Egbemode also commended the combined team of men and officers from Ayeso A and Ijamo B Divisions of the Nigerian Police who were on ground to prevent looting while the firefighters made frantic efforts to salvage goods and prevent the fire from spreading to other shops located in the market. POLL “The tragic fire incident that razed Atakumosa Central Market in the early hours of Sunday morning was tragic and painful.  At a time our businesses were just recovering from the debilitating effects of Covid-19 on the economy, this fire incident couldn’t have come at a worse time.  On behalf of the government of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola,  we sympathise with the traders who suffered losses in this tragedy. We share their pain and pray they never have to walk this painful path again. We express our sincere sympathy to the entire Ijesha community and indeed the people of Osun State on this painful incident.  The Governor also appreciates the efforts of the Police and firefighters who rose to the occasion and prevented the fire from spreading. ” The statement said.