IBADAN – Sacred Heart Catholic Church, Iyana Bodija, Iwo road-Ojoo expressway today housed Nigeria’s number two citizen, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Oyo State Deputy Governor, Engr. Rauf Olaniyan, Hon. Gambo Lawan and other eminent Nigerians as the remains of Angela Folarin, wife to Senator representing Oyo Central senatorial district, Teslim Folarin, was brought to the church. Laid in a white and gold casket, the body of Angela Folarin arrived at the church around past ten o’clock in the morning, alongside the bereaved husband and family members. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks In a sermon, Dean, North Deanery, Catholic Archdiocese of Ibadan, Very Reverend Felix Ethapeme said Late Angela lived a fulfilled life in total service to God and humanity. Very Reverend Ethapeme noted that though she died at her prime, her deeds while alive would remain evergreen. POLL The Cleric admonished the congregation to reflect on their lives and dedicate it to God as everyone would eventually die. Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde was represented by his deputy, Engr. Olaniyan, Secretary to Oyo State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun; Head of Service of Oyo, Mrs. Amidat Ololade Agboola; and Chief of Staff to the  Governor. Other dignitaries in attendance included Bada Balogun of Ibadanland, Olooye Adegboyega Adegoke, Senator Kola Balogun, Senator Abdulfatai Buhari, Minister of Youth and Sports, Chief Sunday Dare, Hon. Segun Ogunwuyi; Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Chief Bayo Adelabu, Minister of Information, Chief Lai Muhammed; former deputy governor of Oyo State, Chief Moses Alake; Olubadan’s representative, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola, Hon Segun Dokun Odebunmi, Hon Shina Abiola Peller, Hon Akeem Adeyemi , Hon Aderemi Jagaban, Hon. Tolu Sadipe, Chairman of Oyo APC, Hon. Isaac Omodewu. 2023: Ganduje Under Fire Over Remarks About Tinubu Electoral Act: Let’s Give Buhari Few More Days –… Former speaker and current minority leader of Oyo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Asimiyu Alarape; Hon. Kazeem Arole, Hon. Wumi Oladeji, Alao-Akala Political dynasty led by Engr. Dayo Lawal and Hon. Olamijuwonlo Alao-Akala; representatives of Chief (Mrs.) Florence Ajimobi; members of Oyo APC Elders Advisory Council led by Dr. Isiaka Kolawole, Prof. Gbade Ojo and Engr. Idris Adeoye; Dr. Yunus Akintunde, Alhaji K.K Raji, Barr. Lowo Obisesan, Hon. Yinka Taiwo, Hon. Dauda Azuzu, Barr. Tunde Osinowo, Hon. Folake Olunloye, Hon. Saheed Fijabi, Senior Chief Akinade Fijabi, former state and federal lawmakers; traditional rulers; APC executives from ward, local and state levels Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Mrs. Ngozi Onadeko; Oyo Mesi represented Alaafin of Oyo, Prof. Sam Jaja, Executive Secretary of NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Wabote; vice-chancellor of University of Ibadan, Prof. Kayode Adebowale, Chief Wasiu Ajimobi, Alhaji Akeem Ajimobi, Hon. Teslim Ajimobi, many important dignitaries across the length and breadth of Nigeria.