Kurt Zouma played against Watford on Tuesday less than 24 hours after appalling cat-attack video came out of him hitting his pet cat. The video did not affect the decision for Zouma to start in defence because “he is one of our better players”, said manager David Moyes. He was criticised by his club, the RSPCA and some other animal welfare groups. Eguavoen, Amuneke Should Guard Against Clash Of Interest,… Arsenal Eye Transfer Approach For Middlesbrough Player Former West Ham players Joe Cole and James Collins, at the match working as pundits, felt the club had made a mistake in refusing to drop the 27-year-old. The France international issued an apology but Essex Police have since confirmed “urgent enquiries” are ongoing together with the RSPCA. Cole told BT Sport “I think it’s a miscalculation by the club. He could have sat this one out,” while Collins said on BBC Radio 5 Live: “I think there is a lot of anger and rightly so. I personally don’t think it is the right call.” But Moyes said: “I’m really disappointed, and the club have taken all the action they can do at the moment behind the scenes. My job is to pick the best team and Kurt was part of that. “I’m a big animal lover and it’s something that will have affected a lot of people. POLL “I was completely disappointed with what I saw and what I was told, but my job was to try and find a way to get a win for West Ham. Some people will be disappointed and I understand that. “I’m someone who cares a lot about my dogs and my horses. The club are dealing with it as you well know. “I’ve already spoken to him and we’ll move on as much as we can. We understand it’s not something everybody is pleased about. It’s a really poor situation. “Was it the wrong call? My feeling was Kurt’s apologised. I understand lots of people won’t just accept that. But I had to do my job then, and that was to pick the best team I could. “He’s obviously really disappointed and we’ve all felt it through the team and through the club. We are all of the same feeling it was completely out of order from Kurt and we didn’t expect that. Qatar 2022 Race: NFF Confirms Venue, Date For Nigeria, Ghana… Guardiola Says He’s “Upset” Grealish… “I always felt I had to try and separate them and let the club do their side and I’ll do my side which is the football side. I think you are talking to one of the most disciplinary managers there is. “It’s something which we are all really disappointed with and the club are dealing with it. Kurt is in our first XI so my decision was to play him.” Essex Police released a statement saying: “We are aware of a video circulating on social media relating to an incident involving a cat which members of our communities may find distressing. “We have recently been made aware that this incident may have taken place in Essex and we are liaising with the RSPCA and urgent enquiries are ongoing.”