YENAGOA – An executive bill seeking to re-organise community administration in Bayelsa State, on Tuesday, scaled second reading on the floor of the state House of Assembly in Yenagoa. Leading the debate, the leader of the House, Monday Bubou-Obolo, explained that the bill when passed and assented to, will take care of community elections and traditional practices, constitution for communities and state involvement in the signing of memoranda of understanding with multinational oil companies. He said, “The bill also provides that the stool of paramount ruler is for life and that only the government has the right to dethrone erring occupant of the throne. Ekiti Governorship Election: Kolawole Receives Certificate Of… Bye-Election: Alade Olanrewaju Lawson Wins APC Primary “The bill also states that it shall be an offence to issue local government identification letters to non-indigenes.” Bubou-Obolo, who represents Southern Ijaw Constituency 2, also stated that the bill provides for a two-year tenure for community development committees, youth organisations and also specifies equal role for women groups as well as outline punishment for offenders. Speaking in favour of the bill, Ebiuwou Koku-Obiyai (Yenagoa 2); Douglas Sampson-Awudulu (Nembe 3); Mitema Obordor (Ogbia 1) and MacDonald Igbadiwe (Southern Ijaw 4), cautioned against unjust withholding of signature on any document referred to in the bill, saying it is a punishable offence. They said the bill will curtail the excesses of youths and CDCs and also curb the unjust removal of monarchs. In their various submissions, Charles Daniel (Brass 1); Salo Adikumo (Sagbama 3); and Michael Ogbere (Ekeremor 3) rationalised that the bill when it becomes a law will coordinate youth activities, assist the CDCs in the protection of government facilities, and enhance collaboration with the state government in the enforcement of law and order in the communities. POLL The bill was, however, referred to the House Committee on Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Development to report back in two weeks’ time.