Male infertility as a medical condition can be defined as an inability of a man to impregnate a gynecologi­cally fit woman of child bearing age. This can be indicated by low volume sperm produced, inability of sperm to perform biological functions (even with good sperm count) or inability to release sperm from the penile shaft, compromised erection (erectile dys­function). Others are pain, swelling or lump in one or both of the testicular balls on account of chronic health challenges, trauma to the sperm manufacturing unit, and possible unhealthy lifestyle choices. One fact in this society and the world at large is that you will always find one out of every seven couples living with infertility and not less than 50 percent of this childless cou­ple is male factor infertility. Haute Couture: Nigerian Isy Obi: Pride Of Cayman Islands Who The Cap Fits Let Them Wear It So, the paradigm has shifted from our cultural female culprit in infertile couples to male partner issues. The earlier the menfolk realise this and cooperate with their spouse in finding solutions, the better for our society. Oligospermic Men Most of male infertility cases are treatable. An enlargement of the veins surrounding the testicles (scro­tum) predispose such individual to low production rate and poor-quality sperm cells, but with corrective sur­gery hope of paternity is rekindled. Infections and hormonal problems can easily be handled with appropri­ate medications and at best with as­sisted reproductive technology (ART). Assisted conception (ART), re­stores the gap between normal sperm male individual and severe oligospermic men i.e.; A Man With Two Million Sperm Concentration Has About Same Chance Of Father­hood As Another 8o Million Sperm Concentration With 50% Motility In A.R.T. and that is the beauty of this technology-driven industry of ours. One of the most common chorus­es around here is ‘Dr, I have watery sperm.’ I will like to address this once and for all. In an ideal situation, semen sample is cream to whitish in colour. POLL However, when it becomes thin and clear, an underlying pathology may be indicated. Most times its impermanent none­theless low quality is designated. Low Sperm Count So, what do we call low sperm count? When a man has less than 15million/ml sperm in one ejaculate, this is called Oli­gospermia. This can be mild to severe. Sometimes the low sperm is as result of inadequate or unwholesome inter­play of reproductive hormones or the chemical signals are lost. Some men experience delayed fa­therhood due to inability to deposit sperm into their wife’s vaginal as a result of loss of integrity of the mus­cle that separates the bladder from urethra. Hence, the sperms end up in urine and most times in the water closet. The recovery of such semen may lead to discoloration and varying opacity. Preventable Pains Of Fuel Scarcity! A Nation’s Perpetual Self Subversion Male Infertility And More Interventions There are a couple of associated accesory glands like prostate and sem­inal vesicles to the testis. Any form of inflammation to these glands will have a direct effect on semen colour. For instance, a light pink to red­dish brown is an indication of occult bleeding or inflammation of the pros­tate or even onset of prostate cancer while yellow to yellowish-green de­picts superabundance of white blood cells in the semen, which is traceable to ongoing infections in any of these areas. The treatment of male infertility in modern practice started way back 1992 when a group scientist invented micromanipulation tools to deliver intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICS) to the world. The technique allows a single sperm to be injected directly into the egg for the purpose of fertilisation. It brings to table an enhanced egg fertilisation rate in an IVF cycle for couples struggling with male factor infertility and improves the chance of couples with poor fertil­isation in a previous failed IVF cycle. Intracytoplasmic Morphologically Selected Sperm Injection An advanced technique to that is Intracytoplasmic morphologically se­lected sperm injection (lMS) which examine and select sperm using a high-magnification digital imaging microscope for microinjection into the egg. This technique restores a chance of fatherhood in couples with male factor infertility with a high pro­portion of abnormally shaped sperm that has pinned their hope for years. This IMSl technology allows for gradation of sperm cell head make-up in order to be able to select the good quality ones capable of the nine-month journey. I must state here that it is not enough to claim, ‘I did a test and my result is ok.’ There are millions of men out there that could not impreg­nate the ‘gynecologically’ fit women. This is a result of DNA packing frag­mentation (damage) in the otherwise normal sperm sample as reported in the basic medical diagnostic centers around us. It takes an expert in semen related challenges to figure this out. I am proud we have a couple of such specialists in the country already. Not all unexplained infertility cas­es are devoid of hidden/undiagnosed causes. Just a step-up investigation channel will unravel these facts. The issue here is how many will take advantage of this technology that is available on this local scene? Dr. Olaleke Fasasi (PhD) is Direc­tor of Embryology Services, IVF Unit, Omega Golden Fertility, Lagos .