Make this year Valentine’s Day celebration an unforgettable experience with your friends, family and loved ones by making extra effort to express love and affection with these carefully crafted Happy Valentine’s Day messages, wishes and quotes to unlock the atmosphere of love. February 14 is a special day of the year designated for the celebration of love among couples, therefore sending meaningful romantic messages will go a long way in making them feel special. Delta House Speaker Advocates Love, Harmony At Christmas Christmas: JIFORM Felicitates With Christians,  Preaches Love… Mind you, our expression of love doesn’t always have to be expensive. Sweet and sincere words make Valentine’s Day more special than any material thing can do. So seize the opportunity to show your loved ones how much you love and care about them by simply sending them heart-melting Happy Valentine’s Day messages. Here are the perfect compilations of romantic and friendly Happy Valentine’s Day messages, quotes and wishes you can share with that special person that will make him/her feel extra special. It is a thing of joy being in love with someone who understands what love means and what it takes to be in love. Happy Valentines Day. Every adventure we take, big or small, I do want to share it with the world cause the memories linger so high and unexplainable. I love you my perfect half and I want to wish you Happy Valentine’s day on this special day. POLL The only wish I have for Valentine’s Day is for you to hold me in your arms, kiss me, hug me, and love me until the stars stop shining. Happy Valentine’s Day. I have no flowery words or long lines about how roses are red or how violets are blue. But all I want to tell you is that you mean so much to me, I love you from the dept of my heart. Happy Valentine’s Day dearie. I’m so excited to be sharing our first Valentine’s Day together. I hope it is the first of many, Happy Valentine’s Day. The way you wake me up and hold me in your arms every morning creates a spark for a great start to my day, and I know you will always make me feel this special no matter how much we grow old. Happy Val love. Valentine’s Day Not Platform For Immorality, Promiscuity –… Valentine: Social Counsellor Advises Youths Against Risky Sexual… They say dancing under the moonlight is like being in heaven. But I do not need the moon nor the stars to feel a taste of paradise. Happy Valentine’s day my world best. If I were to sit back and watch our love story on a movie screen, it is certain that it would be my favourite movie ever. Happy Valentine’s Day dearie. I couldn’t ask for a more wonderful partner than you. Happy Valentine’s day to the woman that painted my world Gold. I love reading love stories, but honestly, ours is my favourite. Thanks for writing every chapter of our life so romantic. Happy Valentine’s Day Sweetheart. I had been single long enough that Valentine’s Day was just like any other day but today, it is a reminder to show you just how much I love you and how much you mean to me. Happy Valentines’s Day my love. Happy Valentine’s Day to my adorable wife. I love you so much for everything you do for me, most especially for the things you don’t do. I love you my valentine’s babe. Take me into your loving arms. Kiss me under the light of a thousand stars. Place your head on my beating heart and feel how you are running through my heart each second. I love you dear, Happy Valentine’s Day to us. I love you because you are so full of life, you make everything in me come alive. I love the way you stand by me and hold me up when things get tough. You will forever be my Valentine. When you hold me in your arms, I feel safe. When you kiss me, the world just melts away. In fact, being in love with you had made me see how wonderful life can be. I love you so much, dear. Happy Val. Love is like a cloud…. love is like a dream…. love is 1 word and everything in between love is a fairy-tale come true….. cause I found love when I found YOU. When you love someone truly, you don’t look for faults, you don’t look for answers, you don’t look for mistakes. Instead, you fight the mistakes, you accept the faults and overlook the excuses. I love you dear, HVD. I love you not because of who you are, but because of who I am when I am with you. Happy Valentine’s Day sweet charming. Even if I was not your first kiss, date, love or Valentine, I want to be your last and only from here on until the end of time. Happy Valentine’s Day my world best. I am 100%, completely, head-over-heels in love with you. Thank you for being the most important person in my life. Happy Valentine’s day my better half. I have come to realize that friendship is a wise investment and truly I have made a wise decision by investing in you. Don’t ever forget for even a day how special you are to me. Thanks for being a friend indeed. Happy valentine’s day. How can you tell the rain not to fall when clouds exist? How can you tell the leaves not to fall when wind exist? How can you tell me not to fall in LOVE when you exist? Your love is undeniable. Happy Valentine’s Day love. A smile is a charity because it touches the heart, may you have reasons to smile and may you be a reason for others to smile. Happy valentines day sugar. Loneliness kills faster than acids, it gets worse when you are missing not just anybody but someone very close to your heart. I miss you so much, my dear. Happy Valentine’s day. You have given me the whole world through your loving smile and I will love you even beyond when the sun burns out of the sky. Happy Valentine’s Day my world best. The heart could only love you for a while, feet could walk you some miles, clothes would forever not be vogue, but my love for you will last till the end of time. I care so much about you. Happy Valentine’s Day. Your hug is my tablet, your kiss is my injection, your love is my oxygen. If you take them away, it means I’m dead. Honey stay with me forever, I love you, dear. Happy Valentine’s day. I always thought loving someone is the greatest feeling, but I realize that loving friends is even better cause we lose people we love, but never lose true friends. Happy Val dear. If one day you feel like crying, call me. I can’t promise to make you laugh, but I’m willing to cry with you. I Love You, Happy Valentines Day. I’m the luckiest woman on earth to have found you as my king. You are unique, You are caring and loving, most especially you are the best at all times. Happy Valentine’s Day from your queen. We might be separated by distance this Valentine’s Day but it can never change my love for you. I Love You So Much Love. Happy Valentine’s Day. Truly, love can make all our dreams come true. I got to know about this from the moment I first met you. Thank you so much for coming through for me. Happy Valentine’s Day my sweet charming. If one day you feel like crying, call me. I can’t promise to make you laugh, but I’m willing to cry with you. Happy Valentines Day dear friend. Happy Valentine’s Day to you my love. Your hug is my tablet, your kiss is my injection, your love is my oxygen and if you take them away that means I’m dead. Honey stay with me forever. As water is essential to a thirsty person, so is your joy and happiness essential to me. My love for you will continue to flourish with each passing day. Happy Valentine’s Day Dear. Happy Valentine’s Day to my tough manly man who still sometimes cries in sad movies. Despite that, I still love you for who you are and I sincerely love everything about you. Happy Val. 8 spellings, 3 wordings, 1 meaning. I love you. Happy Valentines Day my soulmate, I want you to know you mean the world to me. Love me without any restrictions and feel free to accept who I am. Every single day, I fall in love with you and it would be forever. Happy Valentine’s Day. How can you tell the rain not to fall when the cloud exist? How can you tell the leaves not to fall when the wind exist? How can you tell me not to fall in love with you when you exist? I love you till the day after forever. Happy Val love. Happy Valentine’s Day my love may today be the brightest day in your life and may you see the good of today and forever. I love you. A candle may melt and its fire may die, but the love you have given me will always stay as a flame in my heart forever! Happy Valentine’s Day. I would travel to the moon and back just to see you smile. Happy Valentine’s Day dear. I love you and I will always love you. To the sweetest man on earth, thank you for being you and showing me what true love means on this Valentine’s Day and every other day of the year. Happy Valentine’s Day my king. The first day I saw you, I was scared to touch you. The first day I touch you, I was scared to kiss you. The first day I kiss you, I was scared to love you. The first day I love you, I was scared to lose you because you mean everything to me. Happy Valentine’s day my dear. Every time you hold my hand. I find another reason to fall in love with you. Love you always my Val. Happy Valentine’s Day. Loving someone is not just looking at each other, it is looking in the same direction and achieving the same purpose. Happy valentine’s day my love. Will you be my Valentine…next year? And the year after? And the year after that? Smile! I love You, my cutie angel. Happy Val. My world is extra special because the love of my life is the most phenomenal man in the world. Sweet charming, I deeply love everything about you. Happy Val. I love you because you are so full of life, you make everything in me come alive. I love the way you stand by me and hold me up when things get tough. Happy Val my angel. Colour may fade, the sun may not shine, the moon may not bright, the heartbeat may stop, life may pass but your love I will treasure until the day my heart stops. Happy Valentine’s day. On this special day, I wish you nothing but a day full of love and kisses cause your love brought full melodies and sweet memories that linger forever. Happy Valentine’s Day. A relationship is just like pieces of a puzzle, if you lose one it will never be complete again, I just want you to know you are that piece that I can’t afford to lose. You mean a lot to me, dear. You deserve all of me. You deserve my morning, night and noon. You deserve my present and future because you are my very best. Happy Val sweetheart. Love is not measured by hugging, kissing, or having sex. It is all about trusting, respecting and accepting a person with all your heart in spite of their weakness. I cherish your love, Happy Valentine’s Day. When it hurts to look back and you are scared to look ahead, just look beside you, I will be there. Love you sugar, Happy Valentine’s day. Some friends are worth being dumped, some are good to keep and some are to be treasured forever, you worth being dumped in a treasured box and keep forever. Happy Valentine’s Day dear friend. Every Moment We’ve Spent Together Has Been Awesome So Far. But I Promise The Best Is Yet To Come. I Love You, Honey Happy Valentine’s Day. I promise to love you day after forever cause you are my joy, happiness, and smile. Happy Valentine’s Day to the man behind my smile. Your friendship has never been a source of sadness or regret for me. In fact, you are a must to possess in friendship. I wish you a lovely Valentine’s Day. Happy Valentine’s day to you! Knowing you has been the best antidote for my past. I love you, Happy Valentine’s Day dear. Every day I wake up, I say to myself “What have I done to deserve such joy?”You are indeed a rare gem Happy Valentine’s Day to you, my Crown. My day is not complete without thinking of your beautiful face, your radiant smile and your kind heart. You are my one and only. Happy Valentine’s Day dear. You complete me. You are all I have ever wanted, on Valentine’s day, on Christmas day… and every other day. I love you my prince charming. A relaxed mind, a peaceful soul, a healthy body, a joyful spirit and a fulfilled life. This and many more are what I wish you today and forever. Happy Val dear friend. You are not around me or with me; you are always inside me, deep in my soul where we both share a happy bond. Happy Valentine’s Day My Love. I’m so glad because I gave the most precious gift I ever treasure to a kind and wonderful person like you. I love you Happy Valentine’s Day. My Valentine here is my heart, it is yours so take it. Treat it gently, it is full of genuine love I have for you. So please keep it always close to you. Friends are like stars, you do not always see them but you know they are always there. Thank you for always being there for me my one and only Amebo friend. Happy Val. Among stones is the diamond, among currency is pounds sterling, among fruits is apple, among flowers is a rose, among GEM yours is RARE. Happy Valentines Day dear. Some friends are separated by time, by difference, by distance, by pride but no matter how far you are or different we maybe you will always be a friend to me. Happy Lover’s Day. Many people will walk in and out of your life, but only a true friend will leave a footprint in your heart. You left yours in my heart. Happy Valentine’s day dearie. When the root of friendship is in the heart and mind, distance is not a barrier because friends feel each other in their hearts. I feel you, dear. Happy Valentine’s Day from this side. Your beautiful smile can set my heart on fire. I love you so much, Happy Valentine’s Day sugar. A lovely message for a lovely person, from a lovely heart for a lovely reason, a lovely time from a lovely mind in a lovely mood on a lovely valentine’s morning. Do have a lovely Valentine’s day. I hope this is the last Valentine’s Day you’ll spend as my girlfriend. Because I hope you’ll say “I do!” and become my lovely wife. I love you. True love is not bounded by any limitation, Dearie I want you to know that I love you so much, from here to the moon and back. Happy Val to you my angel. Sweetheart, on this special day, I want you to know that for as long as the universe exists, my love for you will never perish. Have a truly fantastic Valentine’s Day. Happy Valentine’s Day to all the couples, may your love last forever and, for the single people may your batteries last longer Your love is as precious as the oxygen I breathe and I wouldn’t be able to survive on this planet without it. I can’t live without you, Happy Valentine’s Day dear. Ever since I met you, my heart only beats for you and my mind only think of you. Happy Valentine’s  Day to you honey. I think today is the best day to reveal my love for you. I’ve been crushing on you for years but you seem not to care, please will you be my valentine? Valentine’s Day is a day to reflect on where you went wrong, make amends and plan for another year to correct everything. Happy Valentine’s Day to my light, my fire, my love, my wife. You complete me. Happy Valentine’s day honey. May this Valentine’s day brings all the love your heart can hold. Happy Valentine’s Day to the man behind my smile. Thank you for showing me what true love is. Happy Valentine’s Day my all-around love. Valentine’s Day is a beautiful day for couples. For the singles, they can only lock themselves indoors. Thank you for bringing so much love, joy, and adventure into my life. I love you. Happy Valentine’s Day wifey. Happy Valentine’s Day my love may today be the brightest day in your life and may you see the good of today and forever. I love you. I am head over heel in love with you and I know you can tell from my smile, Happy Valentine’s Day my honey bunny. Valentine’s day is the perfect opportunity for lovers to enjoy and love each other more. So I’m using this medium to say I love you every day, but today you are my special Valentine. Happy Valentine’s Day by the better half. The way we met surprises me, that’s why I wish we could start something special between us. I hope to celebrate the next Valentine’s Day with you. Happy Valentine’s Day dear. All I care about is you and your happiness, I don’t really care if you want to be mine or not. I just love everything about you. Happy Valentine’s Day. I will never get tired of loving you. You are one of the blessings that I value the most. Happy Valentine’s Day! my loving angel. Valentine’s day is the perfect opportunity for lovers to enjoy and love each other more. So I’m using this medium to say I love you every day, but today you are my special Valentine. Happy Valentine’s Day. A smile is a curve that strengthens out a lot of things, I remember your smile this beautiful day and I appreciate God for giving you to me. I love happy valentines day. The only wish I have after living is to be with you and I will not stop doing everything to make it possible, it’ll mean a great deal to me. Happy Valentine’s Day my crush. I never knew it could take this long to have you, but to me, the longer it takes, the better I love you. Nothing is going to change that. Happy Valentine’s Day cutie. I must confess that the most existing experience of my life is sharing a joyous moment with you and I promise that as long as I live I will care for you and I will love you with all my heart, body and soul. Happy Val. There’s no beautiful garden without beautiful flowers. There’s no me without you. I don’t wanna crush on you anymore, I wanna love and be with you. Will you be my valentine for life? I never liked Valentine’s Day, and then I met you and I understood what it was all about. I think today is the best day to reveal my love for you. I’ve been crushing on you for years but you seem not to care, please will you be my valentine? Thank you for bringing so much love, joy, and adventure into my life. I love you. The way we met surprises me till date, that’s why I wish we could start something between us. My crush, I hope to celebrate the next Valentine’s Day with you. Happy Valentine’s Day. You still make me laugh. You still give me butterflies. And I’m still falling for you every single day. Happy Valentine’s Day! You suit the profile of the girl I’ve been looking for to be my partner, I hope I’ll be the one that makes you happy every day of your life. Happy Valentine’s Day crush. You have shown unto me this kind of affection just as your crush, what if we outgrow this stage, I guess you’ll give me the world. Happy Valentine’s Day my crush. When we met, I knew I wanted to spend every single Valentine’s Day with you. You’re my rock and I don’t know what I’d do without you. Happy Valentine’s Day sugar. You are a friend who I would never ever want to lose. I love you more than anything else in this world. Happy Valentine’s Day. My heart beats out for close friends like you who have been understanding, loyal and supportive, every step of the way. Happy Valentine’s Day. Valentine is just one day in the year, but you know that I love you every day and every moment. Take my love on this beautiful occasion. If you read this text you owe me a hug if you delete it you owe me a kiss if you save it you owe me a date, if you return it to me you owe me all the above, but if you ignore it you are mine. So what will you do, I love you, dear Happy Val. Love is just the way I feel for you. I love you. Happy Valentine’s Day to the woman behind my manly. Life has just gotten better ever since I met you. Hold me and love me like there is no tomorrow happy valentine’s day my loving angel. If I had to choose between loving you and breathing, I would use my last breath to say ‘i love you.’! I love you forever and always. Happy Valentine’s Day. I don’t know the real meaning of love. But, when I hear your voice I can feel my heart skip a beat. When we are together, it feels like I’m a part of some fairytale. Happy Val. Happy Valentine’s Day to the love of my life, you have stood by me through good times and bad, and I am eternally grateful for your love and devotion. Here is to many more amazing years together. Happy Valentine’s day love. A successful marriage requires falling in love over and over again with the same person. Your love made me feel that way always, I love you to the moon and back. Happy valentine’s day sugar. My only aim in life is to love you, love you more and love you more and more with each passing day. Happy Valentine’s Day Dear. Some joy is better expressed in silence. A smile makes more meaning than laughter, I was asked if I enjoyed knowing you…..I just smile, Happy Valentines Day my love. I need no special days to love you differently. I need no special moments to hold you closer or kiss you deeper. Every day is just too special, Happy Valentine’s Day my princess. My only aim in life is to love you, love you more and love you more and more with each passing day. Happy Valentine’s Day Dear. Every day with you is a wonderful addition to my life’s journey. Happy Valentine’s wifey. You have given me the most wonderful and joyful years of my life and for this, I will always be thankful. Happy Valentine’s Day. No one tells bed to fly, no one tells dogs to bark, no one tells fishes to swim, no one tells cows to moo, they just do. Just like no one tells me to love you, I just do. Happy Valentine’s Day my heartbeat. I love three (3) things, the sun, the moon and YOU. The sun to shine by day, the moon to bright and night and YOU to light my path forever. Happy Valentines Day. Years back, valentine’s Day used to make me feel sad and lonely but with you in my life now it makes me want to shout from the rooftops how in love I am with you. Happy Valentine’s Day my king. Looking back in time, I’m glad that I chose you above everyone else and I’m looking forward to spending the rest of my life with you. Happy Valentine’s Day brownie. I hope you don’t mind that I put down in words how wonderful life is while after I met you and loved you. Happy Valentine’s Day to my shining armour. When someone asks me  “what helps me sleep at night?” the only answer that comes to mind is the fact that I can hold you like a teddy bear. can I say that out loud? Happy Valentine’s Day love. There is no Valentine’s Day card that can perfectly say how much you mean to me. You are my sweetheart and I love you. Happy Val dear. I am so happy to have found the perfect man. Just the thought of you makes my heart race and my knees get weak. I’m crazy about you! Happy Valentine’s Day. My biggest reward is to see you smile, know you are happy and feel you are loved. I know life is sometimes cruel, but that’s why I’m here to show you that life can be good when someone cares. Happy Valentine’s Day dear. I fell in love with you immediately after seeing your inner beauty of you. Happy Valentine’s Day. I love you and I miss you so much. I am the luckiest woman in the world to be able to say, “See that guy? He’s mine.” I love having you as my Valentine. The only wish I have on Valentine’s Day is to be with you and only you on this special day and every Valentine’s Day from here until forever. I was looking out of the window thinking about the person I care most about and the person that came to my mind is YOU. So I want to really wish you a Happy Valentine’s day. When I am walking in front of you, I am protecting you. When I am walking beside you, I am there for you. When I am behind you, I am watching over you. When I am alone I am thinking about you. Happy Valentine’s day friend. Celebrating Valentine’s Day looks great in movies. But in real life, it’s just horrible & costly. Try buying a bouquet of flowers & you’ll understand what I’m saying. When you asked where I wanted to go for Valentine’s Day, just know that I will follow you anywhere you want to take me. I love you. Sometimes I look for my carriage because I swear this love is a fairy-tale and you are definitely my Prince Charming! Happylover’s Day.  Here is Valentine’s Day filled with good wine, good food and especially good friends like you. Have fun dearie.