LAGOS – Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has accused the ruling All Progres­sives Congress(APC) of shielding its leaders involved in the importation of adulterated fuel into the country. The party called for an investigation into reports of how “APC leaders allegedly connived with foreign interests to import very cheap, heavily contaminated fuel, laden with methanol, in their desperation to defraud Ni­gerians and corruptly raise bil­lions of naira to fund the APC National Convention and rigging of the 2023 general elections.” The party said it is now clear that APC leaders were frenziedly seeking ways to raise money to fund their 2023 rigging scheme since the PDP and well-mean­ing Nigerians “exposed and challenged their plots to take a staggering N2.557trillionpadded as fuel subsidy for 2022.” DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit Mass Construction: Lagos Losing Over N4trn To Traffic Gridlock The party said these in a statement signed by National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ogun­agba, titled: ‘PDP Slams APC For Shielding APC Leaders Involved in Importation of Toxic Fuel… Demands Independent Inquest To Expose Culprits.’ The statement read: “The PDP strongly condemns these despicable acts by APC leaders which further expose the impu­nity and wickedness of the APC towards Nigerians. “The inclination for offi­cial concealment ostensibly informed the refusal by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, on na­tional television on Wednesday, February 9, 2022, to name those involved in the importation of the poisonous fuel into our country. “Against this backdrop, the PDP rejects the announced in­ternalinvestigation of this terrible crime by the government as the APC administration cannot be trusted given its manifest predilection to shield the APC lead­ers involved. Nigerians note the various investigations instituted by the APC government in the past which ended without any meaningful outcome; notable among which was the manipulated #EndSARS Report.” The PDP stated that all documents must be made public concerning the importation of the adulterated fuel, adding that “those involved must be exposed and held accountable”. POLL “Where was the toxic fuel imported from? Which compa­ny is the pre-inspection agent? How much was paid for the very cheap contaminated fuel and through which banks were payment effected? All document sre­lating to the transaction must be made public. “Our party insists that Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari, as the Minister of Petroleum Re­sources cannot acquit himself with his reported comedy of an­ger, buck-passing, querying of subordinatesandattemptbythe government to use some com­panies as scapegoats instead of accepting responsibility by exposing and naming individ­uals involved in the crime,” the party said. It also said President Buhari and the APC must explain how the reported 317 million litres of adulterated fuel came into the country, got cleared and distrib­uted across the nation. “Apart from the consequen­tial economic hardship occa­sioned by the damaging of cars and equipment, crippling of means of livelihood across the country as well as an increase in the cost of food items and es­sential services, the cascading effect of adulterated fuel on our aviation industry can only be imagined. “Sadly, the situation has the possibility to trigger loss of confidence by international airlines in our aviation fuel supply with attendant economic downturn as they would more likely prefer to fuelinneigh boring countries.”