The call for the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele to rule the country is seen as a threat in some quarters. The Nigerian Ethnic Youth Leaders Council (NEYLC) stated this in a statement on Thursday. The NEYLC are; Arewa Consultative Youth Movement (ACYM), Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Movement, Oduduwa Youths and Middle Belt Youth. 2023 Presidency: Bala Got It Wrong On APC’s Zoning To South Report Of Emefiele Budgeting N500bn For Presidential Campaign… NEYLC, has, however, asked Nigerians to disregard what it described as a smear campaign being championed in some quarters against Emefiele. The groups said that the attacks against Emefiele have shown that those threatened by the calls on the CBN Governor to contest the 2023 presidential election will stop at nothing with their sponsored negative media reports targeted at him. The NEYLC further noted that an online medium had claimed that Emefiele has brought in three aircraft for his presidential campaign. The online medium, the groups further noted, claimed that it learnt that Emefiele had  been asked by those it described as cabal in the Muhammadu Buhari presidency supporting his ambition to tender his resignation and focus on his presidential campaign “The online, notorious for peddling lies, took its falsehood a notch higher when it further said Emefiele has allocated about N500 billion for his presidential ambition, ‘leveraging his edge as the manager of the country’s most critical financial institution.’ POLL The NEYLC, in a statement by the Ohanaeze Secretary-General and head of Coalition’s secretariat, Nwada Ike Chiamaka, said the report was not only false but was also concocted and sponsored to portray Emefiele in a bad light. The statement read: “We have noticed the unfortunate pattern that the clamour for who becomes the next President of Nigeria will be is currently taking. “With the increasing calls on Emefiele to join the race, some desperate politicians are already feeling the heat and have resorted to campaign of calumny and blackmail against the CBN Governor. “We say with all boldness that there is no iota of truth in the fiction published online, which was dubiously tagged as exclusive. “In urging Nigerians to disregard the report in its entirety, we also alert them to more of such reports that have already been prepared by their paymasters and have been scheduled to be released in batches just to pull down a man they are seeing as a threat to their ambition to rule Nigeria by all means in order to milk the nation dry and run it aground.”