EMMANUEL OBETA In this day and age of an Online and digitally connected world, no brand can afford to thrive, exist and perform creditably well without a huge and well, proactively managed online brand presence. The context of this statement is clearer when you consider that the numbers of global social media users are about 4.5 billion users out of the total global population of about 7billion. NBA, Hennessy Launch First Floating Basketball Court In Africa Sanwo-Olu Approves Creation Of Tertiary Drainage Squard This becomes even more poignant when you break down the total estimated online users based on the various social media platforms. For instance, Facebook with roughly 2.89 billion monthly active users as of the second quarter of 2021 earned a total of $28.6 billion advert income in 2020 and is one of the biggest social media network worldwide. It crossed the one billion users mark in 2012. WhatsApp on the other hand is the most popular global mobile messenger app with approximately two billion monthly active users. It outranks Facebook Messenger at 1.3 billion and WeChat at 1.2 billion users as a messaging platform. As a social media platform, it ranks third after Facebook and YouTube. YouTube also has over 2 billion monthly active users up from 800 million users in 2012, however nearly 43% of all global internet users access YouTube every single month. It will interest you to find out that more than a billion hours of content is consumed on YouTube every single day. YouTube makes over $7billion in adverts quarterly which translates to about $28billion annually in advert revenue. POLL When you categorise the usage of the platform you will find out that YouTube is most popular among people aged 15-35, while globally YouTube is used more by women than men. It is also important to note that the only website world over that receives more traffic than YouTube is its parent company Google. LinkedIn on the other hand is the oldest of the major social networks still in use today as it got launched on May 5, 2003 nine months before Facebook launched at Harvard. LinkedIn is also the most trusted social media network in terms of privacy and security with a strong and specific business focus and has about 1billion users. The platform has transitioned from being “just” a recruitment platform to being a professional network where people educate and inform themselves and learn about other companies in their industry. 57% percent of LinkedIn users are men as opposed to 43% that are women. Interestingly also 76% of LinkedIn users are outside the US. Shoprite To Reopen Circle Mall Store After #Endsars Attack,… Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (15) Also, about 60% of LinkedIn users are between the ages of 25 and 34, while about 40 million people use LinkedIn weekly to search for jobs with about 3 people being hired every minute through the platform. About 60 million senior level influencers and 55 million companies are on the LinkedIn platform. Five years after its acquisition by Microsoft in 2016 for $26.2 billion the business social network in June 2021 surpassed $10 billion in annual revenue for the first time. Another social media platform to seriously look at is Instagram. Instagram has risen from its launch in October 2010 to about 1 billion active users, making it one of the top 4 social networks worldwide, a point where about almost one-quarter of the world’s active internet users will access the app each month. Instagram’s monthly user base based on statistics is the same as the total population of Europe and North America combined. Instagram accumulated a total of 17.4 billion dollars as advert revenue in 2020. According to Omicron there are 320 million global Instagram users aged between 18 and 24 years. There are 354 million global Instagram users aged between 25 and 34 years. 72% of teens use Instagram. Instagram is mainly a photograph or video-based platform where people visit to connect, discover, and be inspired thereby making it the ultimate platform for brands to connect with their audience, as well as taking advantage of influencer marketing opportunities. It has about 500 million daily active users (which is 70 million more than the total population of South America) accessing the app globally which made it surpass its major rival Snap Chat’s 150 million DAU’s in 8 months. Interestingly people spend an average of 29 minutes a day on Instagram, with users under the age of 25 spending 32 minutes and 24 minutes for those over 25 and upload over 100 million photos and videos daily. According to Instagram Business 60% of people use this platform to discover new products, 80% of them follow at least one brand, 200 million accounts check out a business profile each day, and 66% of profile visits are from non-followers. When TikTok then called then called Douyin was launched in 2016, nobody gave it a fighting chance of survival not to talk of achieving the kind of global success that it has experienced. Facebook already had over a billion and a half users, and Instagram about 600 million. From 2016 until today, TikTok is the fastest growing social media platform that has the most downloads globally. TikTok by June 2021 had about 700 million active users per month, which ranks it in the top 5 most popular social media platforms with the time per user spent on TikTok exceeding that of Facebook. While Facebook and Instagram record annual member growth of about 5 to 10 percent, TikTok has the growth of over 30% for the second year in a row. According to the published App Annie annual review of the top performing apps by downloads and revenue, TikTok has demonstrated an unmistakable dominance as well as influence across the broader social media space. In terms of overall app spend, according to the same report, TikTok has also seen the biggest jump year-over-year. A cursory look at all these social media platforms will show you their peculiarities, strong points, advantages as well as weaknesses as a platform for the purpose of building or projecting your brand. To succeed and excel in modern digital online marketing you need to understand and appreciate the uniqueness of each of the different social media channels. For instance, LinkedIn is positioned as the platform where professionals can interact and exchange ideas more like a serious-minded platform for professionals. Facebook is like the Hollywood of social media marketing where all the razzmatazz, effizy and fireworks are acceptable. Different kinds of people with their individual fantasies and exciting cravings go out there to fulfill or live up to their passion. Instagram is more like the E channels of this world where the full glare and paparazzi are brought to life much more like the New York fashion or Paris fashion walkways. YouTube is video based with all kinds of videos-oriented platforms where contents ranging from the very serious to the mundane are all allowed so long as you can substantiate a following or audience for your content. The interesting thing however is that all the platforms have successfully integrated videos into their platforms where videos within some limits of restrictions are allowed. YouTube however, still has the highest video share rates of all the social media platforms. YouTube is also famous for allowing videos of whatever length to be shown on their platform. Longer videos keep people longer on the platform which is actually good for YouTube as it reduces the bounce rate – the rate of people leaving a platform either midway into the content or the entire platform as a whole. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com