***Threatens To Issue Warrant Of Arrest Against Union ABUJA – The National Assembly Joint Committees on Works on Tuesday took the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) and Petroleum Tanker Drivers Union to the cleaner over alleged diversion of N621billion road fund by the Ministry of Works. The lawmakers, who described the leadership of both NUPENG and tanker drivers as “liars and irresponsible,” threatened to issue warrant of arrest against them. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks The leadership of the two unions had alleged that the fund earmarked for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of federal roads was hijacked by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing together with some governors. Concern by this development, the joint committees summoned both the Minister of Works, Babatunde Fashola and the leadership of both unions to respond to the allegation. The leadership of the union, however, failed to honour the invitation. Angered by this action, the Chairman of the joint committee, Senator Adamu Aliero (APC, Kebbi Central), who described the leadership of both NUPENG and tanker drivers as “liars and irresponsible,” gave them seven days to reappear before the panel. Aliero said: “For someone to make this grave allegation and was given the opportunity to defend the allegations and decided not to come is either a liar or irresponsible. POLL “We are not going to take it lightly with them. We are going to compel them to appear and speak on the allegation. “We have summoned both NUPENG and the Petroleum Tanker Drivers to come and defend the allegation made that N621billion has been hijacked by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing together with some governors and this money is meant for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 21 roads in the country. “We felt that this allegation is very grave and serious. We need to investigate it properly to ascertain the veracity of the claim. That’s why we call the Ministry of Works and the minister responded with his directors. “Members of the Senate and House Committees on Works are here. We don’t take allegations that have to do with public funds lightly. “This is tax payers money. We want to ensure that it is properly investigated. If they don’t come, we will compel them. We will issue a warrant.”