ABUJA – The Federal Government has given a matching order to the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) to intensify dialogue with major stakeholders in the film industry to look for a lasting solution to the cases of ritual killings that is attributed to home movies in Nigeria. Executive Director/CEO-NFVCB, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas, made this known at a two-day Roundtable organised by the National Film and Video Censors Board(NFVCB) and the Society of Nigeria Theatre Artists (SONTA) for Heads of Department of Theatre Arts across Nigerian Tertiary Institutions yesterday in Abuja. He said that the current trend that is happening in society is ritual killings, film is supposed to entertain, educate, inform and mirror the society where this is not done it is not against the ethics of film making. UK Bans Russian Airlines From Entering British Airspace, Russia… Joe Biden To Nominate Ketanji Brown Jackson For US Supreme Court He said, “When you bring a film to us that depict ritual killings, what we look for is the ending to ensure that justice is done and the wicked suffer for his wicked act. “Since 2017, no films pass through us that celebrate negativity or moral decadence. We are not asking them not to mirror society but what end the film is very important. “This is why we are engaging stakeholders on the content of films, this is one of such dialogue. This is the intellectual/academic one for them to include in the curriculum. “In a movie, everybody is supposed to pick his or her own good moral and when there are cases of ritual killings, those watching should watch till the end of the movie to know if the perpetrator of the wicked act suffers for his wicked act to serve as a deterrent to those watching and might want to copy the wicked act. “Most universities don’t have classification and censorship as a course, even when being in the university we were not taught. Since there is a need for it and the government and regulatory body as us to find a lasting solution to it. POLL “For a child, moral and culture are the responsibilities of the parents, the foundation the child has determined the way he will grow. We are calling on parents and guidances to censor the kind of films their children watch. In our own period after NTA news we go to bed that is the way we were brought up, but these days parents buy a lot of expensive phones for their children and there is no parental guide and we are in the digital world, where we have high cloud, YouTube and all other unknown platforms Popping up. These are things they access that is beyond us. “Despite that, we are working with all security agencies, it is still difficult for us to know the numbers of high-class streamers but we are doing our best that is why we keep on training our staff on monitoring and evaluation. Some of these videos when it comes up what we do if we see it on Goggle or YouTube we write to them to bring it down. At times when they bring it down they pop up on online Streamers which we cannot identify,” he explained.