…Urged That Workers in Public Medical Facilities be Retrained ABUJA – The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Ministry of Health to conduct mandatory customer service training in all public hospitals and health facilities periodically. The House also mandated the Committee on Healthcare Services to ensure compliance. Kidnapped Kaduna Catholic Priest Regains Freedom CJN Hits Back At AGF Over Utterances Against Judiciary The resolution followed the adoption of a motion titled the “Need to Retrain Workers in Public Medical Facilities in Nigeria” brought by Hon. Chinedu Emeka Martins, (PDP-Imo). Debating the motion in the House, the Lawmaker noted that Nigeria’s Health Sector is currently burdened with challenges of funding, lack of facilities, manpower shortages, brain drain, and medical tourism out of the country resulting in the loss of millions of dollars. Hon. Martins also noted that quality of service delivery is crucial in healthcare management, especially in government hospitals. He observed that cases of negligence, obsequiousness, and impoliteness have been reported in government hospitals, leading to loss of confidence in public hospitals. “Government has invested a lot in recent times to restore public confidence in the country’s healthcare system and boost patronage while driving the government’s agenda of fighting diseases and ensuring a healthy workforce. POLL “Majority of patients prefer to seek medical treatment in privately run clinics and health facilities in preference to government hospitals. “The House is Worried of the alleged poor customer service delivery, negligence and unnecessary procedural hurdles said that it would further erode public confidence and deplete patronage of the public healthcare system. “If public healthcare workers across the country are not re-trained on interpersonal skills, time management, and customer relationship management, Nigeria may face further rot in the healthcare sector which could adversely affect the economy,” the lawmaker argued. The House, therefore, resolved that the Federal Ministry of Health should develop a system to track patient satisfaction and complaints and outline punitive measures for service failure and incentives for excellent customer care performance.