ASABA – With the aim to change the negative narrative of the Niger Delta, Nigeria Youth Professional Forum ( NYPF) has yesterday urged business stakeholders from the region to invest in the human capacity development of youths in Niger Delta. Speaking yesterday during the second edition of the Niger Delta Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise ( MSME) Summit in Asaba, Convener of NYPF, Mr Moses Siasia stressed on changing the false narrative overshadowing the true strength of the Niger Delta youth. He affirmed the need to redirect the energy of youths in the region by building a network of endless opportunities. 2023: Elumelu Charges PDP To Field Popular Candidates For Party… 2023 Presidency: Why Nigerians Will Vote For PDP, Not APC –… According to him, ” What we are telling the young people of Niger Delta is, say no to criminality or other social vices. There is only one way we can change the challenges in the Niger Delta. That is to, open windows of opportunity by creating an environment of entrepreneurship for our young people. We live in a fourth industrial realm.We need to reshape the Niger Delta dnd change the narrative of the negative perception the Niger Delta is known for”. He called on successful businessmen from Niger Delta to look inward by investing in the wealth of human capacity available in the region “We have successful people from this region such as Tony Elumelu, Jim Ovia amongst others. In fact, five or six chief executive officers of renowned banks are from Niger Delta. We must come together because charity begins at home” he asserted. POLL While bemoaning the system of empowerment employed by most states in Nigeria, he said, ” Awarding contracts is good but firstly you must have an element of bringing back to the society. Then you would ask, what is the element of job creation are government getting those can contracts. If you are awarding the contract to company A, how many people would be trained, how many would be employed”. He faulted the Niger Delta Amnesty Programme for failing to satisfy the entirety of an empowerment scheme, saying that it is analogue. “Politicians come and do empowerment programmes by just using the money to satisfy their political affiliates. For their amnesty programme, there is no well thought out engagement process after training. Our leaders should change their thinking. The world has moved beyond this archaic way of thinking. Leaders should think about the next generation not the next election. It is funny that government would give money to a person who has little or no interest to invest in pig farming”. Delta At 30: State Honours Okonjo-Iweala, Ovia, Elumelu, Clark,… Minority Leader Blasts Idea Of Voters Suppression, Charges INEC… He lauded the Central Bank of Nigeria for its partnership and efforts in changing the negative narrative of the Niger Delta. Earlier while speaking, Chief Executive Officer ( CEO) of Blue Camel Energy, Mr Suleiman Yusuf emphasized need for Government to drive the economy by investing in human capacity. “There is no leader that would be remembered for the bridges or roads he built rather for his investments in persons”.