ABUJA – The Nigerian Economic Summit Group( NESG) has called for the consideration and expeditious passage of the National Food Safety and Quality Bill before the National Assembly. Mr. Laoye Jaiyeola, Chief Executive Officer of NESG, made the call in Abuja on Thursday in an interview with newsmen at the Experts/ Stakeholders Review and Harmonisation Workshop for the Food Safety and Quality Bill(2019). Jaiyeola pointed out that some of Nigeria’s agricultural products have been rejected in various countries of the world, owing to the fact that these products failed to meet the international quality standard, noting that it has become expedient for the lawmakers to pass the bill into law to ensure standardisation of produce. BREAKING: Aisha Buhari Storms NASS For Women As Reps Lay… NASS Legislative Aides Write EFCC, ICPC Over Salary Arrears,… He listed the lack of enabling environment and too many institutions involved in food quality control as being responsible for the rejections suffered by Nigerian exporters of agricultural produce. He underscored the need for Nigeria’s produce to meet international standards, adding that it would create a new lease of life for farmers as well as create employment for many Nigerians. He further explained that the passage of the bill into law is of “national interest and interest of the citizenry” geared towards poverty reduction and wealth creation. In her speech, Mrs. Gloria Ekpo, Facilitator NESG Agriculture and Food Security Policy Commission, said producing safe food is essential to the socio-economic development of the country. Ekpo said food safety is key to achieving Sustainable Development Goals which include ending hunger, improving food nutrition and eradicating malnutrition, promoting good health and well-being while ensuring health production and consumption. POLL She, therefore, urged stakeholders at the meeting to refuse to work in silos, urging them to dialogue and make relevant submissions for its easy passage of the bill by the National Assembly and assent of Mr. President. She further called on the government institutions saddled with food regulatory functions to monitor producers of food system to promote food safe country. She also canvassed for collaboration and coordination among the three tiers of government for the enforcement of food quality and safety in the country. A release from NESG says “Foodborne diseases make 600 million people ill and cause 420,000 premature deaths annually. “In Nigeria, according to the Federal Ministry of Health in 2017, food poisoning was responsible for 5,160 deaths yearly.” NASS Canvasses Stronger Capital Market Regulations CSOs Urge NASS To Prioritise Electoral Bill Upon Resumption Also speaking, Mr Mahmuda Mamman, Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Health, said the Food Safety and Quality Bill has been forwarded to the National Assembly since 2019 for consideration and passage, adding that the aim of the bill was to protect the health of the consumers from hazards which may be present in food and animal feed. Mamman represented by Director of Food Safety in the Ministry, Mr.Tai Joseph, said the Bill has gone first and second reading on the floor of the Senate while it has undergone first reading in the House of Representatives. He stressed the need for the harmonisation of institutions saddled with the regulation of food safety and quality in Nigeria, noting that there have been over-lapping functions among these institutions in the regulatory functions. He observed that as a result of the ugly development, Nigerian consumers have been exposed to health hazards from the consumption of contaminated locally produced food and imported foods. He expressed optimism that once the bill is passed, it would provide an effective framework for food control system, protect the health of consumers and increase the acceptability of Nigerian agricultural produce in the international market.