Hon Terwase Orbunde was the immediate past Chief of Staff (CoS) to the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. He is now a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. In this interview with TOR VANDE-ACKA, he speaks on some issues affecting the state, which he intends to tackle if elected as governor. EXCERPTS: It is your intention to govern Benue State. What exactly do you want to bring to the table for the people of the state? In 2018, we were in China with His Excellency (Governor Samuel Ortom) on a tour, we sat down and did some analysis. I reminded him that we came to Government saying we will do agriculture-based industrialisation; industries cannot be with generators, there must be a solution on power but China is not the place. At that time, I just completed a study on Brazil. We went to see how Brazil had solved their power problem: hydro, solar, thermal, even gas powered plants. We came back and the following year, 2020, the Governor asked me to go back to Brazil this time to look at funding models. So, I led the second team to Brazil that looked at funding models and we did a case study of one particular hydroelectric power in Osina Polo. These people had generated power, they borrowed money from international agencies, built their power stations and within three years, they repaid the loan that they took. The plant was ten years old, looking brand new and I was encouraged to ask more questions and therefore we had to talk with people who do surveys, people who do design, construction and distribution and we located five places where we will be generating 300 mega watts of power. The need of Benue State at this time was about 120 mega watts of power. The whole of industrial area is looking at about 10 mega watts, so it gives you an idea what kind of power need that we have and if you have 300 mega watts of power, it means that it can pay itself. When you have an increase in agricultural productivity, the only way that the market can be sustained is to ensure that there is a market buying because from the supply and demand side, for prices to be at the constant, you must have a constant buying, that’s why you must industrialise. So, Government must take that initiative, that’s why long term multilateral loans become important; loans that are not commercial. They are development loans and the agencies are there, we are talking to some of them. You are given money to organise farmers’ cooperatives and their productivity increases because they are no longer doing subsistent agriculture. Then you have quality seeds and inputs in terms of fertilisers, herbicides and insurance. You have to insure; that way, when a farmer knows that at harvest N15,000 is going to be the price of 100 Kg of rice and you have given a loan of equivalent of five bags, he knows that when he harvests, he is paying back what he took with the produce because he doesn’t have money. When there’s a buyer; Government is going to arrange that, so there is someone buying; the farmer will then be free to sell when he is harvesting or sell later. But if a farmer has three hectares and 30 bags of rice per hectare, you are already talking about 90 bags, if he takes 10 or 20 bags to settle his loans; that farmer still has a form of insurance, a form of security. You have people graduating from school consistently. So what are you going to do? You must find a place where you will put them and I use my son as an example, if I want him to go to farm, I must use a gadget that will interest him not the normal hoe, he will not be interested. He will put his earphone and be listening to his music, while he uses an equipment to harvest, to plant and all that. That’s the way I’m looking at it so that agriculture that is our mainstay, our area of comparative advantage will go that way. Age Shouldn’t Be A Criterion For Rejecting Politicians During… Sunday Igboho: Afenifere Condemns Extenson Of Incarceration We have cases of insecurity, because Benue valley is an attractive to armed herdsmen. What would you do to advance the structures set by Governor Ortom, when you eventually become State Governor? The first thing I want us to look at on the issue of security is that starting from the Northern boundary of the state; will be to do resettlement patterns, cluster settlements, because as it is today, you will find out that the attacks that are coming are not organised in a way that you will know. They (armed herdsmen) go to small villages, small compounds and get a family killed. We need to encourage new settlement patterns because we need to open up our land in a way that agriculture will be done at a mechanised level. So, we are opening up kilometers of land and from December to April every year, that’s what we will be doing. As you resettle people, you free the land; you are opening up land for the communities and you want them to enhance their productivity by having bigger areas that tractors can come in and work. I have combined these, because security cannot stand alone, if communities resettle and you have spaces, trees are removed, lands are prepared and they are going to farm, then they are going to be protected as such. I hold the view that it is not grazing that is the issue, it is the issue of taking our land. It didn’t start in Benue, most lands have been taken, so I know that it’s not a thing that will go away suddenly; micro-defence systems will be created, just like we have Community Volunteer Guards now. In my thinking, communities must own security; every community should have a volunteer guard because they are people in the communities, that is why it is volunteer and they will be encouraged to have local defence systems; that way, the conventional security system will be assisted because the conventional security system cannot be trusted to be everywhere, even if they want to be. So, the local communities are the first line of defense before reinforcement comes. There are over 1.5 million displaced persons in IDP camps in Benue and a larger chunk of these people are the farming population who are disadvantaged. What plans have you to return them to their homes and invariably, their farms? Nobody wants to live in the IDP camps. So, if you move them to organised settings, that’s planned and protected, that is a way to solve the IDP problem. You must first of all decide where they will go to, design it, do layouts and allocate to people, help families to move even if it’s in tents; to start with, let them move with their tents. In the camps, you have a clinic, a school and other basic amenities and as you are organising it, you are solving a specific problem. There are organisations and institutions now that if you show them that this is the way you want to move, they will assist you. I’m not coming into Government like a stranger and I have been over the world on behalf of this Government. So, there are institutions, people and places I have been that I know that we only need to re-engage; Brazil is one example. The general thrust of my government will be to use security that is a disadvantage to us as a raw way of doing the economy. People think that if they make you Governor, you are an appendage of the Ortom-administration. Why couldn’t you bring these ideas and execute these plans, while you were with Governor Ortom? POLL I want to let you people know that I am a part of Ortom’s administration and I am very proud of Governor Ortom as a man; governor and as the head of Government. The circumstances Ortom found himself in, very few people would have done what he did. We have seen other parts of the country where they failed, but you see Ortom rising up to the occasion. Some of the things that Ortom would have liked to do he could not have done them. For instance, when you hear of IDPs, who have been sent off from the most productive lands of the state, Ortom cannot perform magic; he cannot say that farmers must be on their farms when there are attempts to have them killed. So, I want to say that because of some of the things that confronted Governor Ortom on assumption of office, it was not possible for him to handle them while fighting issues of insecurity. We came into Government not expecting that this thing (insecurity) will degenerate the way it did, but, I will like to let you know that Ortom is laying the foundation, most of the things he has done are fundamental. When you talk about the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law, it is a foundation which we are going to build on because we are going to show that ranching can be done here. In summary, the things Ortom needed to do within the space of time that Benue people have him, I can say that he did his very best, but, no one can solve societal problems at once. We will address some of the issues during my own time, if God permits.