LAGOS – The National Judo Open Trials, the 2022 Commonwealth Games Trials ended at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Surulere, Lagos on Thursday evening with judokas from Bayelsa State taking the lead and were adjudged the winners of the four days tournament. The competition competed for by no fewer than 124 judokas across 19 states and clubs in the country was organised by Dr. Musa Oshodi-led Nigeria Judo Federation (NJF) to select athletes who will be called to camp ahead of the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games which holds from 28 July 28 to August 8. The competition was held in seven weight categories in both men’s and women’s events. At the end of the day, Team Bayelsa has five of its judokas winning gold medals and got automatic slots for the national camp. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine Apart from winning the top prize, Team Bayelsa’s Ika-Bassey Nsa who is fighting in -73kg was adjudged the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the competition and was presented with a giant trophy to show for his prowess, Team Lagos were given the Most Behave Team award. Nsa told reporters after the competition that he is looking forward to the national camp with his head high and strongly hopeful that he would do the nation proud in the Birmingham Games by winning the gold medal in his event. Chief Coach of Team Bayelsa, Bob Igoniwari was so excited seeing his judokas shinning at the Lagos trials which was tagged ‘Rejuvenation 2022’.According to him, hard work and good preparation gave his team the victory in Lagos, adding that the nation must expect nothing less than good medal outing from all his judokas who will be part of Team Nigeria at the Commonwealth Games. The President of the NJF, Dr. Oshodi said the trials showed the display of new spirit of Nigerian judo, adding that “I know that our fans have enjoyed the throws, falls and various techniques being displayed by the judokas from across the country. “We can see that the narrative has changed for our sport. With supreme confidence, I can say that judo is back in Nigeria and back with a big bang.“With the blockbuster performance of our warriors on the mats, Nigerian judokas are now roaring to conquer the world,” said Dr Oshodi a 5th Dan judoka. POLL He was so excited with the hosting of the trials by the Lagos State Government through the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) and the Lagos State Judo Association (LSJA). “Apart from providing facilities, Lagos also created a convivial environment which will make the trials remain etched eternally in our memories,” he said. Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) Secretary General, Olabanji Oladapo, Vice President of Nigeria Taekwondo Federation (NTF), Ms. Tayo Popoola and other dignitaries graced the closing ceremony spiced with product and gift items from Kellogs.