LAFIA – The Nasarawa State House of Assembly summoned the state’s commissioners of Education, Finance, the State Accountant General, Head of Civil Service and Director, Salary Bureau over non-payment of the salary of 400 newly employed teachers. The Assembly has summoned the State commissioner of education and four others to appear before the House on Monday, February 21, 2022. The House said, was to enable them explain to the people of the State why the salary of the over 400 newly employed secondary school teachers were not paid three months since employed in Nov. 2021. Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… Biden Orders Release Of Trump White House Logs To Panel Probing… Rt. Hon Ibrahim Balarabe Abdullahi, the Speaker of the House gave the directive after Hon Daniel Oga Ogazi, the Chairman, House Committee on Education raised the issue on matters of Public Interest during the House proceedings today in Lafia. Balarabe Abdullahi said that for the standard of education to be improved in the State, teachers must be encouraged, motivated and their salary should be paid promptly. The Speaker stated, “First, let me appreciate Hon Daniel Ogazi for bringing this very important matter and other members for your contributions on this issue. “Honestly what is happening in the education sector, particularly in the State is saddened. Teachers were employed in the last three months and after three months, salary has not been paid. “The State is not encouraging the teachers. For them to give in their best, they must be encouraged through prompt payment of their salary. POLL “It is in view of this, we are inviting the State Commissioner of Education, Commissioner of Finance, Accountant General, Head of the Civil Service and Director Salary Bureau to appear before the House on Monday, Feb.21, 2022. “This is to enable them to explain to us and the people of the State why they have failed to pay the newly employed secondary school teachers after three months of their employment,” he said. Earlier, Hon Daniel Oga Ogazi (APC, Kokona East), Chairman, House Committee on Education while raising the matter said that it was disheartening not paying the newly employed teachers. Other members, who spoke, the Deputy Speaker Right Honourable Nehemiah Tsentse Dandaura, Barr. Muhammed Alkali, Hon. Muhammed Muluku, Hon. Muhammed Okpoku, Hon. Muhammed Omadefu and Dr Peter Akwe all supported the motion and urged the critical stakeholders involved in the payment of salary and other responsibilities of teachers to appear before the House. They commended the zeal of the Governor for approving the employment of the teachers and blamed those responsible for the payment of the salary and stressed that is bad to be employed without paying hence the need for the government officials involved to come and clear the air on the matter.