LAGOS – The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has pledged that it would strengthen local capacity for manufacturing of essential medicines, including vaccines to achieve drug security in the country. Prof. Cyril Odianose Usifoh, PSN President disclosed this at a press conference on Wednesday in Lagos, to announce his inauguration and the investiture of 112 members of the society as fellows, to hold in Abuja, Thursday, February 10. Usifoh noting that Nigeria, as a country, needs medical security, disclosed that one of his five-point agenda is to support locally manufacturing pharmaceutical companies. Lagos PSN Urges FG To Set Up Presidential Committee On Drug… Lambo, Others Urge Healthcare Professionals To End Incessant… The PSN president added, “We will make sure that the local manufacturing industries are supported.We will visit them, know what their needs are and try to meet them.” For the local production of drugs and vaccines to be feasible, Usifoh said the PSN will work with the Nigerian government and refineries like Dangote refinery to convert petrochemicals into Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), used in the production of drugs. “PSN will work with the government, we will let them realize that it is important that we have our petrochemicals that are used to produce APIs. When we have the basic APIs, we can start producing a larger percentage of these drugs locally. “We plan to pay an advocacy visit to Dangote refinery, to ensure that he puts in place the technology to produce APIs for the production of drugs, to reduce the importation of the ingredients into the country. We will visit them, know what their needs are and try to meet them.” He promised to promote advocacy to fast-track the recognition of community pharmacies as primary care centres in accordance with the National Health Act 2014. POLL He said PSN would see to the establishment of the National Post Graduate College of Pharmacists to complement the consultancy cadre agenda, while also working with the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) and relevant stakeholders. Usifoh assured a purpose-driven leadership for all the technical and interest groups of PSN through teamwork. “As president, I strongly believe in teamwork and will ensure that I delegate duties where necessary and monitor the implementation. Within the last two months, we have been able to collaborate with appropriate agencies and community pharmacies are now centres for COVID-19 vaccinations. The pharmacy consultancy cadre has been firmly established. More schools of pharmacy are undergoing accreditation for the PharmD programme.