U.S. President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin have agreed to hold a summit on “security and strategic stability in Europe,” the French Elysee Palace said early Monday, shortly after both Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron announced measures to work on a ceasefire arrangement in eastern Ukraine. “Presidents Biden and Putin have each accepted the principle of such a summit,” the palace said in a statement, adding that it would only be held if Russia does not invade Ukraine. “All the stakeholders” could be involved in further talks following the U.S.–Russia summit, Macron said in his proposal. Putin Has ‘Made The Decision’ To Invade Ukraine – Biden Biden Assures Ukraine President US Will Respond… The development came after Macron made a flurry of separate phone calls to leaders, including to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The palace said that the content of the summit will be outlined by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov during their meeting scheduled for Feb. 24, “provided Russia does not proceed with military action,” the White House warned. Press secretary Jen Psaki said that the United States is “always ready for diplomacy,” but stands “ready to impose swift and severe consequences should Russia instead choose war.” “And currently, Russia appears to be continuing preparations for a full-scale assault on Ukraine very soon,” she said. POLL In a statement following the agreement with Macron for further diplomatic efforts, the Kremlin said, “In view of the urgency of the situation, the presidents acknowledged the need to intensify the search for solutions through diplomatic means via the foreign ministries and political advisers to the leaders of the Normandy format,” adding that efforts “should facilitate the restoration of the ceasefire regime and ensure progress in the settlement of the conflict in Donbas.” However, reports of violence—which Ukraine has blamed on pro-Russian actors—spiked in eastern Ukraine’s Luhansk and Donetsk regions this week, where pro-Russian separatists have for years been challenging the Ukrainian government for control of the territory. According to Ukraine’s foreign ministry, there were 66 ceasefire violations by “armed Russian formations,” many involving weapons prohibited under the Minsk agreement, all along the 155-mile border of Donbas on Saturday. The Ukrainian military also said that “provocative firing” had killed two Ukrainian soldiers and injured four. Russian media blamed Ukrainian forces for the shelling. Zelensky called the accusations provocations and “pure lies.” The Ukrainian foreign ministry urged an immediate response to the ceasefire violations from the international community, saying, “The absence of proper reaction or a neutral stance will only serve further escalation.” Biden Urges American Citizens To Leave Ukraine Immediately Biden Extends Trump’s Solar Tariffs With Key Exemption U.S. intelligence has been warning of Russia using “false flag” events as justification for military action to invade Ukrainian territories. A day earlier, Denis Pushilin, leader of the self-proclaimed separatist government in Donetsk, had ordered the evacuation of civilians in rebel-held territories of eastern Ukraine to Russia and a general military mobilization. He justified the evacuations to residents by pushing claims that Russian citizens in the rebel-controlled areas were being endangered, painting the Ukrainian government as the aggressor after alleging in a video that Ukraine was going to order an imminent offensive in the area. Ukraine immediately pushed back on the claims, saying there were no orders to use force in these territories. “This is an attempt to provoke our armed forces,” said Oleksiy Danilov, Ukraine’s secretary of the National Security and Defense Council. 