LAGOS – Senator Mohammed Musa, The Senator representing Niger East at the Senate and an aspirant to the national chairmanship of the party, has said that Nigerians and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are tired of the frequent postponements of the date of the convention, urging the party leadership to ensure that if it fixes a new date it should stick to it. The lawmaker who spoke on Arise Television on Monday said that convention is a necessity for the country, stressing that he believes that APC has been doing very well but is expected to do better. He said, “Nigerians are tired of the constant extensions and postponements of the party convention. We are all witnesses that Mr. President is not also happy with this. Save APC From Imminent Doom – APC Rebirth Urges Buhari Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… “Nigeria has never had a good experience in terms of infrastructural development until the APC government came in so we shouldn’t allow little internal squabbles in the party to jeopardize and make all the successes that have been achieved go down the drain,’ Musa said. He maintained that members of his party are agitating that there should be a convention and as such the party leadership should do the convention as soon as possible. “The reason given for the shift or likely shifting of the 26th February date to me is acceptable because we cannot disenfranchise others who also going to face the national election, the election to elect their representatives that will be going to Abuja, but if we fix a new date we should maintain that date,” Musa said. While responding to the question of having the requisite experience to be the national chairman of the party when he will be facing more experienced contenders, the Senator said, “I am always upset when people trivialize matters of national issues. When people say that they have political experience, they have been senators and governors for many terms.“I also have experience; I started politics during my days in the university. Politics is not something someone will say that I have studied, I have been in it. It is not so, it is a game that you equip yourself when you come in and that I have done already. “I have been in business for over 33 years and I have been a successful business man. If I have been able to develop something for the greater good of this country, which everyone can attest to even those who have been in politics for so many decades? I was involved in the production and innovation of changing the way our electoral system is in this country, I am talking about the Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and the smart card readers. I have contributed so much in the two years that I have spent so far at the Senate, have contested elections as governor in 2007,” he said.