. ENSIEC Denies Non-provision Of Result Sheets ENUGU – The Chairman of Enugu ENSIEC, Dr Michael Ajogwu has debunked the insinuation that result sheets were not provided at the polling units during the LG election on Wednesday. Dr Ajogwu, while answering questions from journalists in Enugu on Wednesday said “I went around the polling units is and all the agents if they lack any materials but they didn’t tell me that there was no result sheets. VerifyMe Unveils Nigeria’s 1st Digital ID, KYC Industry Report Katsina: Police, Other Security Agencies To Collaborate Against… “Result sheet were provided along other sensitive materials on Tuesday . I will not understand that result sheets are not there because I made them available to all polling units. The chairman assured that the election will be free and fair “ I assure all l political parties of fair, free and credible election,”. On APC threat to boycot the election, he said “APC is contesting in all LG in the state. It’s not true that they are not contesting . “The only person that is not contesting is the state Chairmam of APC, Ugo Agbara because he became the chairman of APC on the 15th of February when he received certificate of return and by that time all process of election has been completed . POLL “The State Chairman of the party , Dr Ben Nwoye that has been In the office for 3 years is who we have being working with but we stop Ed dealing with Nwoye as a Chairman since 15th of February when Agbara received certificate of return “Even when Ugo Agbara came to me, I asked him to send his men but none of them have party card and even educational qualification. Even when they didn’t bring their deputy, I told them that without deputy you are not qualified but he failed to do all I ask him to do but rather to go over the air and shout all he can shout,” he said Meanwhile , Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has described the conduct of the LG election as peaceful Ugwuanyi who states this when he voted at his Amube Ward II Polling Unit, Ohom Orba, Udenu Local Government Area of the state said “Enugu State 2022 Local Government Elections going on peacefully and we return all Glory to God.