The Oyo State Governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde has said that would announce the name of the new Olubadan of Ibadanland on Monday. Makinde made the disclosure on Saturday at the Liberty Stadium Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo State during the Final Burial Rites of late Oba Saliu Adetunji Ajeoguguniso 1, stressing that all the crisis rocking succession to Olubadan stool has been laid to rest. Governor Makinde said he has received an official letter from the Olubadan-in-council on their choice for the new Olubadan. The governor, in his remark at the state burial for the late Oba Adetunji, said, “We are happy that crisis rocking succession to Olubadan stool has been resolved, new Olubadan will be announced on Monday, Olubadan-in-council has officially written to me.” “Olubadan stool doesn’t need amendments, Ibadan tradition is envied by other people because we are the pacesetter.” In his remark, the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII), President General, Yemisi Adeaga described the late monarch as a humble personality during his lifetime who has transformed the town with his wide experience. Speaking on behalf of the Adetunji family, son of the late monarch, Abdul Raheem Adetunji said his father has touched many lives while alive, adding that the family are not mourning but celebrating fulfilled life of their father. He however thanked the governor of the state for keeping his promise by giving the late monarch a befitting burial, promising the support of the family towards the development of the state. POLL Dignitaries at the event include the deputy governor of the state, Engr. Rauf Olaniyan, ex governor Rashidi Ladoja, Sen. Kola Balogun, PDP Deputy National Chairman, Amb. Taofek Arapaja, Commissioners, members of State House of Assembly, local government chairmen, and Ibadan sons and daughters among others.  Governor Seyi Makinde at the middle, seated to the right is Former Oyo State Governor Senator Rashidi Ladoja, seated at the left Chief Taofik Arapaja and other dignitaries.