ABUJA – The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission(NIPC) has announced that it would focus attention in the mobilisation of about N348.7 trillion capital requirement for the implementation of the National Development Plan(NDP) 2021-2025 over the next five years. Mr. Emeka Offor, Acting Executive Secretary of NIPC, stated this on Wednesday in Abuja at the first quarter of 2022 media parley in Abuja. Offor explained that the work for NIPC in the next five years has been appropriately defined by the National Development Plan 2021 – 2022 (NDP), adding that the Plan has projected a capital requirement of N348.7 trillion with 86% (N298.3 trillion) expected to be provided by the private sector. NIPC, Horasis Sign MoU On Investment Platform Manufacturing Leads $8.99bn Investment Announcements In Q3,… He said the mobilisation of this capital has become the focus of the Commission, as it has begun the process of validating the records of the investment announcements. He added that the report from the exercise would give the Commission a further understanding of investors’ readiness to invest in Nigeria. He said: “Further to setting an agenda for the Commission, we have begun the process of developing a strategic plan with a focus on the NDP sectors. “Critical to this strategy is the profiling of the opportunities in each State as well as sustaining the engagements with the sub-national governments. “We would continue to build on past successes while we chart new paths for sustainable development of the capacity of staff of the State Investment Promotion Agencies while also stimulating healthy competition for investments across the regions and the States. POLL “We would leverage on our relationships with the Executive of the States to ensure sustained appreciation of the issues of the business environment with the understanding that the aggregation of the sub-national perception forms the national image, and also expand the coverage of Nigerian Investment Certification Programme for States (NICPS). “During the period, we would aim at completing the reform process we initiated on the process and administrative framework of the Pioneer Status Incentive under the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Act. “We would undertake the review of the qualifying list to include emerging activities that require government support while delisting activities that are matured.” On the NIPC’s Strategic Plan 2022 – 2026, Offor disclosed that the Commissionwould adopt an aggressive approach in encouraging both domestic and foreign investors to invest more in the Nigeria’s economy. He said the 2021 Investments Announcement Report indicated that US$23.30 billion was tracked during the year, representing about 39% more than the value tracked in 2020, which stood at US$16.74 billion. NIPC, BPSR, NEPC, 2 Others Top 2021 FOI Ranking Fraud Allegation: EFCC Questions NEPC Executive Secretary This increase in value, he said, was indicative of the growing adaptation to the global ‘new normal’ after the economic disruption occasioned by the restrictions imposed to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. He further noted that it also indicated the growing confidence of investors in the efforts to improve the national investment landscape. He said: “The top five States, by the value of investments, are Lagos State (US$8.7 billion), Bayelsa State (US$3.6 billion), Delta State (US$2.9 billion), Akwa Ibom State (US$2 billion), and Adamawa State (US$1 billion). “The manufacturing sector had the highest number of projects (20) as well as the highest value, US$10.5 billion (45%). Construction (16%), electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply (13%), information and communication (12%), and mining and quarrying (9%) made up the top five sectors for the year.” In line with the e-government initiative, he explained that the Commission had launched the e-OSIC under the Single Window Investors’ Portal (SWIP), noting that the prevailing global business environment has made it imperative for organisations, to adopt technology as part of their operational tools. He, therefore, called on all Nigerians both at home and in the Diaspora to support the government’s efforts aimed at attractingthe quantum of investment required to stimulate sustainable socio-economic development of the country. “It is therefore very important that every Nigerian, based at home or in the Diaspora develop a conscious sense of patriotism by being cautious of our statements. “Let us begin to highlight the positives in the country more while pointing out the negatives for correction,” he admonished.