ABUJA – The Minister for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs and Former Governor of Benue State, Dr. George Akume, has been tipped as the most suitable aspirant to lead the Nigeria’s ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). This position is contained in a new public opinion poll released by Africa Polling Institute (API). The poll was part of the Institute’s January 2022 monthly NigeriaSpeaks Poll, which was undertaken in the week of January 24th 2022 to elicit citizens perception and attitudes on topical issues and trends covering a potpourri of social, economic, political, governance and public-life issues. According to the report, the poll sought the opinion of Nigerians on who they consider most suitable to lead the APC and position the party for the future. “From the responses, Dr. George Akume came 1st with 13%, followed by Senator Danjuma Goje, Abdulazziz Yari, Tanko Al-Makura and Ali Modu Sherrif (with 10% each), Isa Yuguda (8%) and Saliu Mustapha (4%).” Igbos Haven’t Committed Any Crime To Be Denied Presidency In… Political Parties Grooming Thugs Instead Of Leaders – Sen… In a statement signed and released on Sunday by the Executive Director of API, Professor Bell Ihua, “further analysis revealed that Dr. George Akume was considered most suitable for the job of party Chairman given his good leadership qualities and character (28%), as well as his past performance and track records (16%).” “Some respondents noted that during his tenure as Governor of Benue State, the state enjoyed relative peace and security.” When placed on a reverse question of who is most unsuitable according to he statement, Ali Modu Sherrif topped the chart with (14%) as the most unsuitable for the job of party chairman; followed by Abdulazziz Yari and Tanko Al-Makura, who had 11% each. “Interestingly, further analysis revealed that Ali Modu Sherrif was considered most unsuitable to lead the APC because of his alleged affiliations to Boko Haram, Terrorism and insecurity (76%), as well as his poor leadership track record (16%). Some respondents stated that it was under Sherrif’s leadership as Governor of Borno State that the menace of Boko Haram escalated; while others alleged that they were boys he groomed for political thuggery. “Abdulazziz Yari (29%) and Tanko Al-Makura (27%) were mainly considered unsuitable due to their past poor performance while they served as Governors of Zamfara and Nassarawa states respectively. Similarly, some respondents claimed that it was under Yari’s leadership that banditry peaked as a result of illegal gold mining; while others alleged that Al-Makura looted his state’s resources. POLL “In addition, when asked about how they feel on the state of affairs in the country, 41% of respondents said they feel sad with the state of affairs, while 37% said they feel extremely sad. On the other hand, 14% said they feel indifferent, while only a meagre 8% said they feel happy. “The data showed clearly that majority of respondents (78%) are displeased with the state of affairs in the country; due to challenges of: “Heightened Insecurity” (38%); “Inability to Meet Basic Needs” (34%); “Unemployment” (20%); “Electricity Outages” (4%); and “Lack of Basic Infrastructure” (4%). Poll MethodologyThis poll is part of the monthly NigeriaSpeaks series of national public opinion polls conducted by Africa Polling Institute (API). “The NigeriaSpeaks poll project is a series of monthly nationwide public opinion polls, aimed at bridging the gap in primary data, by capturing public opinion, and giving citizens an opportunity to lend their voice to public policy discourse, practice and advocacy. The opinion poll was administered between January 24th to 28th 2022. “It involved telephone interviews of a random nationwide sample. 1,026 randomly selected phone-owning Nigerians aged 18 years plus, representing the six geopolitical zones in the country, were interviewed. With a sample of this size, we can say with 95% confidence that the results obtained are statistically precise – within a range of plus or minus 5%. “Members of the public are welcome to suggest questions to the monthly poll.Africa Polling Institute (API) is an independent, non-profit and non-partisan opinion research think-tank, which conducts opinion polls, surveys, social research and evaluation studies at the intersection of democracy, governance, economic conditions, markets and public life; in order to support better public policy, practice and advocacy in sub-Saharan Africa,” the statement added.