DAMATURU – Determined to ensure transparency, accountability and fulfilment of electioneering campaigns, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Yobe Council has today toured all constituency projects facilitated by Ibrahim Umar Potiskum, member representing Nangere/Potiskum federal constituency at the National Assembly. Umar Salisu Alhaji, Senior Legislative Aide to the lawmaker accompanied the team of journalists led by Comrade Rajab Mohammed, Chairman NUJ Yobe Council. Power projects inspected include Potiskum to Mandagai down to Duddaye in Nangere Local Government Area project which is at 60 percent. Tashan Kurege to Degubi ongoing while that of Danchuwa to Garin Abba in Potiskum Local Government Area reaching 70 percent while Dakasku to Kakavijik has been completed awaiting commissioning. Adebomehin Appointed As Substantive SGoF DELTA: Police Nab 25 Cultists, Burst Drug Cartel The NUJ team also checked some educational projects such as the constructed modern seven blocks of classroom upstairs with offices, store, toilet, furniture and air conditioning system at Juma’a Primary School of Potiskum Local Government Area. Other projects facilitated by Ibrahim Umar Potiskum visited includes the constructed six blocks of the classroom with furniture at Sabon Gari Primary School, Sabon Garin Nangere. “Other support to individual seeking assistance for School registration, research aids and other financial support”. On sporting, the senior legislative aide said that they organized a football competition between various teams with the support of modern jersey to 70 different teams across the two local government areas”. ” The lawmaker presented a Golf Saloon car to Malam Modu, Honda Discussion to Bala Kaura, Honda CR-V to Mohammed Sirrinta among others”. “Hon. Ibrahim Umar Potiskum has facilitated the drill of a complete package of solar-powered boreholes to all the 21 electoral wards of Nangere and Potiskum constituency. He has empowered Women in his first year in office who are now mostly self-reliant. “Recently, he has also empowered 5,000 farmers, artisans and women with the following items, 100 bulls, 20 plough, 2,800 bags of fertilizer, 106 water pumping machines, 50 sets of sewing machines and 40 grinding machines”. POLL “He has also facilitated for the constituents to benefit Covid-19 palliative of N5,000 for six months, enrollment of 160 artisans each benefited N30,000 and engaged 60 constituents for training on handwashing for six months respectively.” Responding after the trip, the Chairman NUJ Yobe Council, Rajab Mohammed said that “as Journalists we’re saddled with the responsibility of ensuring that all promises made to the electorates during campaigns are fulfilled transparently in according to the terms. We are indeed satisfied with what we saw, we will continue to track all the projects in Yobe State”. He commended Governor Mai Mala Buni for the support to the three arms of the government which according to him enabled improvement in their performance.