***Distributes Food Items IBADAN – In it’s efforts to make life more easier and meaningful to people of the society, especially at the grassroot level, a non governmental organization known as SajPointe Foundation has distributed food items worth millions of naira to the less privilege in Ibadan the capital city of Oyo State. The gesture according to the Project Director, Mrs Julie Kemi Ajao, who spoke on behalf of the project founder, Sandra Sidikat Ajao Ituha, is to cushion the heightened rise of poverty, hunger in Oyo State. Folarin Family Releases Details Of Angela’s Burial… Buhari Hails Late Ngo Zimi Pam’s Contribution To… The beneficiaries who are residents of Idi-Aro Community Ibadan could not hide their joys has they all went home with various food items worth several thousands of naira. The residents of the area, which cut across all categories of people, among whom were children, adults and the aged, irrespective of their religious affiliation or faith appreciated the Sajpointe Foundation for showing them love in this hardship time. For the period the programme lasted, residents came out in large numbers to receive the different staple food items, such as rice, noodles and yam. Speaking with newsmen, Ajao maintained that the foundation drives on the basis of fulfilling the Sustainable Development Goals 2 which is zero hunger. She said, “This is an individual capacity to help these less privileged living in Idi-Aro. She noticed the rate at which the God was blessing her was enormous so she thought of what to do to appreciate God for all the blessings, God then revealed to her that the best way to appreciate is to extend hand to the less privileged in the community.” “It just a new foundation that started in January 2022, and so far she has been able to assist within the short period of time, we started with Oleyo community in Oluyole Local Government and we helped so many people there.” POLL “Today being the second time we are at Idi Aro South East Local Government to extend our love to the poor people there. It is a non-governmental organisation with no alternative interest but just to thank God for blessings.” “It just something she funds alone without the help of anyone, she is a nurse in the United State of America, it has nothing to do with the government and will never have, it just a blessing from God extended to the less privileged.” “It is a continuous exercise and we will continue sharing food stuff and can be extended to making boreholes for school among others.” “I advise with this, it could motivate other well to do individuals to help in eradicating poverty in the country.” She said. Receiving and coordinating the food items on behalf of the community, the Chairman of the Idi-Aro community, Cheif Omoniyi Adigun, appreciated the gesture of the foundation for its humanitarian service to the community. Court Remands Two teenagers For Gang-Raping Female To Death In… 30-Year-Old Woman In Police Net For Spending Fake Currency He said “I really appreciate what has already happened today, it is what we have been expected from the well to do people, and we give glory unto God and we pray that people will continue to help the less privileged like what the organisation did today.” When asked what the government should do for the community, Chief Adigun said: “Government has been trying but we need government to do more. Why because the challenges we have are many, they should be encouraged by what non governmental organisation like this is doing” In his reactions, one of the beneficiaries who is a widow, Mrs. Oyajide Olubunmi said: “We thank God for this foundation for what they did for those widows that are hopeless, we pray that their work will continue to rise and will never come down.” “I just give all thanks to her that God will bless her and she’ll never lack. I’m a widow and I’m happy for what she really gave us and her children will never lack too.” Olubunmi said.