Chief Martin Onovo is a former presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). In this interview with EJKEME OMENAZU, Onovo, a petroleum engineer, speaks on the Federal Government’s suspension of the removal of petroleum subsidy, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: What is your take on the recent review of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill by the National Assembly members to provide for Direct, Indirect and Consensus modes? We find that appropriate. It is clearly consistent with our laws, democratic principles and the due process of law making. Though it is late, it is an improvement over the last Electoral Act in our opinion. The initial requirement of direct primaries by the National Assembly was in error on many grounds. First, the National Assembly may have been unlawfully interfering with the legitimate authority of political parties and freedom of association. The National Assembly makes laws for the country and not for political parties. Our political parties have their rights to make their own internal laws without external interference. We have practised indirect primaries considerably and have become very familiar with it. Changing it can introduce a high risk from a management of change perspective and take us back to a learning curve. Direct primaries are cumbersome, very expensive and easy to manipulate. 2023: Nnamani, Others Push For Ugwuanyi Presidency COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose The ease with which direct primaries can be manipulated was demonstrated in the fraudulent Anambra APC governorship primaries last year. It is clearly impossible for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to monitor direct primaries of 18 different political parties across the entire country for general elections. Direct primaries are very obviously unrealistic. Direct primaries will promote electoral fraud and corruption. Well-funded candidates can hire non-party members and thugs to register and vote in the direct primaries of different parties and impose candidates in different parties as we have seen same thugs attending the rallies of different parties. INEC lacks the capacity to monitor direct primaries of all parties at all locations and so manipulations will prevail. Direct primaries will corrupt the different identities of different parties. It will promote corruption. The cost of campaigning and the source of campaign funds are some of the confirmed drivers for corruption in Nigeria. Therefore, it may be expedient to mitigate the cost of campaigns; enforce campaign finance limits and then, disqualify and prosecute any candidates that use slush funds or state facilities. Indirect primary elections naturally cost less and are less complex and so easier to prevent manipulations. Our opinion is that parties should independently decide what mode of primary elections they prefer direct or indirect or consensus in compliance with their different party Constitutions. That is the position of the new electoral bill that awaits the President’s signature. We agree with this position. By their review of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill instead of sticking to their earlier decision, would you say the National Assembly lawmakers acted in the national interest or lacked the courage to challenge the president and their governors? Generally, decisions are made on cost/benefit analyses. Their earlier decision was wrong. It was also opposed by INEC that monitors primaries. We think that the National Assembly realised its own errors and had to adjust its position. The new Electoral Act Bill is in the best interest of Nigeria. Let us pray and ensure that INEC implements it diligently. How do you see the inability of the Federal Government to withdraw the fuel subsidy in February as provided by the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) which was fall-out of an Executive Bill, but decided to extend it by 18 months, which is clearly outside the tenure of the current administration? POLL The Federal Government should not transfer the costs of its corruption, incompetence and wastefulness to tortured and poor Nigerians. This same Buhari government removed ‘subsidy’ in 2016 and claimed that it was saving over N15 billion every month. Why will the same regime come back with this absurd story of ‘subsidy’ removal every year again? Has the mass media failed Nigerians? We all have the documentation of all the false promises of the ruling party. Why has the mass media not held the government accountable as required by the constitution? The ruling party promised to fix the refineries and build new ones. It has not fixed any refinery after seven years. It has not built even a marginal refinery. Please note that this government has spent about N50 trillion since 2015 without any significant achievement. If we can ethically spend only N1 trillion properly every year in key development projects in the Nigerian economy, we will make a remarkable difference. But, here, after spending N50 trillion, all we have are corruption, stories and debts. There is an indication that with the failure to implement the removal of petroleum subsidy by February, the Federal Government may find it difficult to obtain more foreign loans to prosecute the 2022 budget. What is your take on this? Do we need more loans? We insist that we do not. Was it right for the Buhari regime to have borrowed recklessly and unpatriotically? It was not right. In the first tenure of Buhari, we at the Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC) wrote to the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives against the reckless and unpatriotic attempts of the Buhari regime to continue to borrow irresponsibly. The National Assembly then under the leadership of Dr. Saraki rejected some of the requests from Buhari for loans, following our letters. On the ‘subsidy’, we cannot continue to wastefully and unpatriotically import petroleum products when we are a major producer of crude oil and have four public refineries in Nigeria. We must ensure that we refine crude domestically to improve our GDP, reduce the price of petroleum products, improve employment and reduce poverty in the country. President Muhammadu Buhari has said that he has been overwhelmed by the security situation in North West. What would you make out of this? It is clear that he has been overwhelmed. We are not surprised. He is very clearly the worst president in Nigeria since 1914. All his deceitful promises, particularly on the security situation have failed catastrophically. Nigerians are now at the mercy of murderous terrorists imported and sponsored by the ruling party. Averagely, about 10 persons are lost every day in Niger State alone. Compared to the tenure of His Excellency, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, we can confidently say that terrorism has spread further across Nigeria, more people have been kidnapped and more have been killed. So, Buhari has failed woefully on all indices, including security. Gombe 2023: Contest Or Incur Our Wrath, Akko Youths Urge Dattuwa 2023 Benue Guber: I Have Undying Passion To Serve – Waya How would you describe the number of presidential contenders that have announced their intentions so far? Do you see them as being capable of pulling the nation out of the current quagmire? Unfortunately, all individuals that have announced their intentions so far have shown themselves to be unpatriotic, undisciplined and selfish. They have violated the process and have put their political interests above the interests of Nigeria. The new Electoral Bill just passed by the National Assembly has not been signed into law. INEC has not released the detailed timetable yet. So, it can be seen very clearly that all those that have announced their intentions before now are unfit for the Office of the President because they jumped the gun. The proper sequence of events should be; conclude and sign the new Electoral Bill. Then, wait for INEC to release the detailed timetable after which all groups, parties and prospective aspirants must follow the timetable strictly and comply with all relevant laws. Don’t you think the announcements of some of the presidential contenders of their intentions may indeed divide the South and give advantage to the North in the 2023 election? Power rotation is an established national norm in politics in Nigeria. So, power should rotate to the South of Nigeria in 2023. The North should not attempt to disrupt an established national norm as such attempt will introduce distrust and disagreement. More Southerners will declare at the appropriate time and that will give Nigerians many options from which we can select the best candidate for president. Chief, one wonders what your role will be in the unfolding political dispensation. Could you let us into your plan for 2023? We are patriots. It is our duty to God and our compatriots to always give our best to our country. We remain available to serve Nigeria our country with integrity and diligence. The Transparency International just released the 2021 CPI Report and the ranking for Nigeria is worse. Can this administration really control corruption? The corrupt cannot control their corruption. The Transparency International report simply confirmed our position that this is the most corrupt government ever in Nigeria and that corruption in this government is even getting worse. The increasing corruption in this government can be seen in three dimensions; the pervasiveness, the quantum and the impunity. From the $25 billion (N10 trillion) NNPC contracts scam, to the road construction rates that are 100 times higher than the median rates of the African Development Bank (AfDB), to the phantom School Feeding Programme during the lockdown, to the fraudulent Conditional Cash Transfer and the outrageous claims presented as subsidy claims, to the unjustifiable amounts claimed for the maintenance of refineries, the case is the same of uncontrolled corruption. It is not surprising that the most corrupt government in the history of Nigeria is the worst government ever because, corruption is directly destructive in governance.