**Reels Out Former Governor’s high-handedness During His Tenure **Calls On Party Leadership To Intervene ABUJA – An All Progressives Congress (APC) affiliate group, Akwa Ibom Progressives League (APL), has accused the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswil Akpabio, of plans to make APC lose the forthcoming gubernatorial elections in Akwa Ibom State.In a petition submitted to the National Secretariat of the APC Wednesday, the group accused the former Senate Minority Leader of reviving “his divide and rule tactics to ensure he achieves his selfish personal objectives even if it destroys the Party’s interests.” 2023: A’Ibom Stakeholders Urge Akpanudoedehe To Run For… Basketball Africa League Announces Teams As Season Commences… The petition which was signed APL convener, Honourable Uduak Etim alleged that “before joining the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Godswill Akpabio’s brutal crackdowns on the APC has been well reported. As the Akwa Ibom State PDP Governor from 2007-2015, many people were framed, arrested and jailed, and others kidnapped, or killed. Many victims often included innocent members of the opposition politicians’ families. The years 2010-2015 which marked the last five of Akpabio’s two-term eight-year tenure as Governor, will go down as the most brutal for the opposition. Under Akpabio, the main opposition at the time, Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), was led by Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, PhD.” APL also accused the former governor of anti-party activities, stating that Akpabio is not considering the fast-approaching elections, rather he is focused on foisting stooges on the APC in the State. POLL The communique further alleged that Akpabio’s “misplaced fear of retribution for his atrocities during his tenure as Governor is driving him to such insane levels of desperation. “It is on good authority that Senator Akpabio has met several very respected APC leaders in Akwa Ibom including Senator Akpanudoedehe over his fears of retribution. “Senator Akpabio has been assured severally that his past misdeeds have been forgiven and forgotten.” While calling on the governing APC to rescue the state from the shackles of the failed PDP government in Akwa Ibom State, it reiterated that fears by the former Senate Minority Leader is responsible for “why he formed the renegade and shadowy political group named Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum (ADF) and funded it to pursue an agenda to destabilise the APC, in his desperation to secure his selfish goals. “The group consists of disgruntled politicians all of who belonged in the opposition PDP fold, who decamped from 2015 and later on, after the loss of the PDP at the centre. Adeboye’s Son Says He’s Waiting For Criticism Ahead… EKOEXCEL Hails Women, Girls In Science “They are simply disgruntled on account of their failure to hijack the party structure in the State through the devious means they contrived in the effort. The renegade group lack a proper foundation as original members in any Legacy Party or true Progressives fold. They are a bunch that wish to maintain political relevance on any platform, at the risk of blackmailing and betraying our great Party to the opposition. Already, Senator Akpabio is in talks with the PDP government in the state ahead of the 2023 governorship election.” Similarly, APL notes that the reconciliation committee of the party in the State “are simply a hurriedly assembled bunch of NDDC contractors, out to earn their livelihoods through their dubious enterprise.”