LAGOS – Bola Tinubu Support Organisa­tion (BTSO) Lagos Chapter has in line with its goals of toeing the footpath of Bola Tinubu’s humanitarian gestures of transforming lives empowered 20 indigent dwellers of Bariga area of Lagos with free health insurance package at an event held at the CMS Primary Health Centre, Bariga. The event which took place on Tuesday, February 8, was ini­tiated by the BTSO group with the support and collaboration of the Lagos State Health Man­agement Agency (LASHWA), designed to offer free health services to the poor through the Health Insurance scheme of the Lagos State government. Uchechukwu Igweonyia, Sales Manager, LASHMA, said the scheme was designed under what is called ‘Ilera Eko’, at a cost of N8, 500 that enables the bearer to enjoy free primary health services for a whole year without incurring any other ad­ditional financial expenses. Mutilated Body Of Middle Aged With One Year Free Health Services… Afikpo Community Elders Move To Checkmate Cult Activities She said, “The health insur­ance covers free treatment for primary health issues, such as fever, blood pressure, minor sur­geries, ante-natal, wound treat­ment and others covered under the primary health ailments.” Explaining further, Risi Sa­nusi, State Coordinator, BTSO, said, “We are teaming up with LASHMA to bring free health services to people at the grass­roots level through an insur­ance scheme that will enable them to access free health ser­vices for a whole year. “It’s interesting to note that most of the people at the grass­roots are not also aware of this scheme, so in a way we are also creating an awareness of the ex­istence of such a scheme so they can take advantage of it. “We choose Bariga Local Government Area because of its large population, the quality of its people, and the influence of our teaming members here. We ensured that the selection of beneficiaries is spread across people who are above 18, includ­ing the elderlies, disabled, youth, women, single, widows and widowers, using the local gov­ernment officials who worked with our criteria to select the beneficiaries.” A sixty-eight years old ben­eficiary who gave his name as Oriyomi Odubonojo, a CDA executive member in Bariga, said, he was elated and was full of praises for the BTSO group who facilitated the free insur­ance scheme, with privilege to enjoy free health services for the duration of one year. POLL Madam Abike Alausa also appreciated the leadership of the BTSO group for providing the health insurance scheme with the accruable health ben­efits which she is set to explore before the expiry of the health insurance certificate given to her.