No fewer than 626 on Thursday completed their National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) orientation course for the 2021 batch ‘A’ in Yobe State. Mrs Hafsat Yerima Coordinator Yobe State disclosed this in an address during the Passing –out Ceremony held at Damaturu stadium. She said that the Corps Members served and they did not only render their primary assignment creditably but also embarked on numerous Community Development Service Programmes. “These ranged from construction works; infrastructural improvement to health services extension and other social services as well as an aggressive awareness campaign on Sustainable Development Goals, COVID-19 etc”. According to her, in line with the policy of the scheme to reward hard work and dedication to duty two (2) Corps Members who distinguished themselves in their national service have been presented to the state government for the bestowal of the state award for Distinguish Service. “As a corollary for failure to abide by the law of National Service one (1) Corps Member have his service year extended for a period of one month for act of impropriety which constitutes an infraction of the NYSC Bye-law. Meanwhile, one (1) Corps Member has equally been declared absconded and he is to repeat service all over again”. “My dear Corps Members, it is my earnest and sincere hope that you have learnt lesson intended by this carrot and stick policy of the scheme that all manners of reward abound, including rewards for hard work and indolence”. “So for those who performed creditably during the service year, I wish to tell you that your period of hard work has just begun, and for those who failed to live above board as expected, this is the time to start on a new slate. For as you will note, pearls are not found on the surface of the sea; but those who find them must dive below to the bed of the sea. A word the sage says is enough for the wise”. “My profound appreciation for the success of the service year goes to the Government and peace-loving people of Yobe State, Security Agencies, Community Leaders, Employers of Corps labour and others who created the conducive atmosphere for the Corps members to exhibit their natural talents and skills”. POLL “Your Excellency, permit me also to place on record that the orientation course for the 2022 Batch ‘A’ Stream I has been scheduled to commence on Wednesday 23rd February 2022, while thanking His Excellency for his support and cooperation. We will count immensely on the usual support and cooperation of the state government for the provision of the necessary infrastructure and the enabling environment for the success of the programme”.