Barely three months after a 21-storey building in Ikoyi, owned by the late Managing Director, Fourscore Heights Limited, Femi Osibona, collapsed, trapping over 50 persons, a three-storey building under construction on Akanbi Crescent, in the Yaba area of Lagos collapsed. Three persons were confirmed dead and about four others including a security guard and construction workers were reportedly trapped. It was learnt that a worker, identified only as Sunday, was rescued from the rubble of the incident which occurred around 3.30 pm on Saturday. Food Security: FGN/IFAD-VCDP Distribute Irrigation Pumps,… Romantic Valentine’s Day Messages, Wishes To Your Loved… Punch reports that some residents blamed the Yaba building collapse on compromise in the quality of the materials. It was further learned that Sunday, one of the survivors, explained that the building had shown signs of distress and he reported it to his boss. He said the boss told him and other workers to ignore the signs and keep working. He stated, “Even today (Saturday), as we were working, the building was shaking, but our oga (boss) said we should continue (working). We even agreed that after today, we would not come back here again to work. I thank God for saving me from this mess, but my phone is still inside.” A 16-year-old, who identified himself only as Shan, said he had gone to buy food for one of the construction workers and was about to enter when it suddenly collapsed. He told Sunday Punch that about five people were still trapped in the rubble but two corpses were later recovered. POLL He said, “I went to buy food for someone that was inside. When I came back and wanted to go in, the building suddenly collapsed. Other people are inside there. They are up to four or five.. I thank God for my life.” An eyewitness present, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a part of the building had collapsed sometime last year. He said, “This was similar to what happened last year when they started erecting the building. A section of the building caved in and destroyed some cars parked by the fence. “The Lagos State Government was invited and they came, but I don’t know whether they told them to stop work or not. After a few weeks, work continued and nothing has been done by the authorities since then until today (Saturday) when the building just crumbled on the workers.” Another eyewitness, who identified himself only as Samuel, said the incident happened so fast. Mecho Autotech Raises $2.15m For Vehicle Maintenance, Repair… TrustBanc Raises N3bn From Series 5 Commercial Paper Issue,… He stated, “I was upstairs so I could see as the building crumbled. Before then, I could hear some chatter from the building; probably by the workers. I am sure they are still under there. I just pray they are not dead by now because no substantial effort has been made to rescue them.”