Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) Oyo State chapter has joined other well-wishers in congratulating the newly appointed General Manager of Shooting Stars Sports Club, Mr. Dimeji Lawal. The ex-international, who was formerly the Team Manager, was on Thursday announced as the General Manager of the Oluyole Warriors in an acting capacity by Oyo State helmsman, Governor Seyi Makinde. He replaces Alhaji Rasheed Balogun, who passed on last month following a brief illness. 2021 SWAN Week: Startimes Declares Support For Oyo Chapter TITAN Farms Partner Oyo SWAN On Sports Development In its congratulatory message signed by the Association’s Chairman Niyi Alebiosu and his Scribe Adewale Tijani, Oyo SWAN tasks the newly appointed Acting General Manager, popularly called Kabongo by fans, to sustain the recent progression of the club and eventually return 3SC to its former pride of place. “Since last week, the fortunes of Shooting Stars have suddenly improved, this is characterised by victories the team recorded in their last three games. These victories catapulted the club from relegation zone to number six position on the league table. We enjoin Kabongo to sustain the current impressive performance of the darling club of Ibadan”, the Association advises. The body of sports journalists in the pacesetter state also echoes the demand of Governor Seyi Makinde that Shooting Stars should get a continental ticket at the end of the season. “We believe that Governor Makinde’s demand for a continental ticket from 3SC is not an impossible task if the club continues to step up their games. You must win all your home games and ensure that you get at least one point in your away games. This is achievable if you’re focused”, Oyo SWAN said POLL While thanking Governor Seyi Makinde for increasing the monthly subventions of 3SC, Oyo SWAN urged the widely travelled new Acting General Manager and his team to reciprocate the Governor’s good gestures by using the increments wisely to enhance the team’s productivity.