The Managing Direc­tor/Chief Execu­tive Officer of Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Com­mission, DESOPADEC, Bashorun Askia Ogieh, has enjoined youths in the state, especially in Isoko land, to embrace peace and shun political thuggery, ahead of 2023 elections. Askia stated this in his remarks during the Isoko Youth Peace and Security Summit held on Thursday at Opute Hall, Ozoro in Isoko North local govern­ment area. He urged Isoko youths and other stakeholders to deliberate on the burning issues of insecurity in Isoko land, towards finding an all embracing, accept­able and workable solution that would endear sustain­able peace and even devel­opment to the area. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Ojokoro LCDA Chairman Budgets N3.8bn For 2022 While advocating for sustainable peace, he re­vealed that DESOPADEC had been embarking on meaningful human, cap­ital and infrastructure development, as well as partnering with youth bodies to engender peace in oil bearing communities throughout the mandate areas. He enjoined youths to change the narrative by taking decisive steps, de­void of violence, saying, “These are no times for the drums of wars to be sound­ing in our clans; these are the times to be thinking of development, and we can only achieve this when we have peace.” He added: “Today, we are gathered together as Isoko youths and other stake­holders who will do justice to the burning issues of in­security in our land. “Over time, Isoko has transited from a warring nation to a very, very hospi­table, friendly, and peaceful nation particularly when the book of God, the Bible descended from heaven into this land of Isoko at the Bible site at Araya. “Since then, through the activities of the mission­aries, we have left our old ways and have embraced peace and the great reli­gion of Christianity that to my mind has brought a lot of peace in our land. POLL “But very recently that peace has been broken by the quest of various indi­viduals, personalities, and communities; either to ex­pand their frontiers of the various communities and kingdoms and for some reasons I do not know. “We have just discov­ered that the Isoko people have taken up arms at one point or the other, commu­nity rising against anoth­er community, something that was not known to us in modern times, and so I felt very agitated. “Those of us in DESOPA­DEC have decided to part­ner with the oil bearing communities, particularly with youth bodies to engen­der peace throughout our mandate area, particular­ly as it affects me as Isoko man, because our agency is known for development and building of infrastructure. “But we do know that without peace, without se­curity, the atmosphere for the building of infrastruc­ture will just not be there, and we need peace in our land so that the needed development that we are yearning for as a people from the government can be brought to us. “Isoko land is one; it is only divided today for ad­ministrative purposes. The whole of Isoko stretching down to Bayelsa, down to Ndokwa East, to the North here we are all one; and we have done things in mod­ern time as one. Your pres­ident was speaking of the crisis of Igbide and Ehwe, the crisis of Igbide and Emede, Oleh and Ozoro, Igbide and Uzere, and Olo­moro and Umeh in the past and continuously like that, we cannot continue to live that way.” Police Not To Blame For Fatal Accident In Ihiala –Anambra CP Ex-Silverbird Newscaster Supports Lawson’s Renal Transplant With… He continued: “I recall when I was chairman of Isoko South Local Gov­ernment Council, a lot of crises were there that we inherited but we did so much to put them out, and we were able to bring back traditional rulers that were forced out of their kingdoms. “At that time we thought we had had the worst mo­ments and we were out of the woods. “But in recent times I have discovered that we are still not out, but the worrisome aspect of it and why we have to collaborate with youth body is because we have discovered that it is the youths, this popula­tion that has a lot of en­ergy, this population that mostly some of them are not having anything gain­ful at the moment, this pop­ulation that some of them have not been able to find their ways through school, they are easily available to be used to perpetrate vio­lence. “We will soon be going into elections, and plenty of those that are being used in perpetrating the violence at times are mostly of the youth bracket and in most cases those who use us don’t have their own chil­dren in our midst. “We need to think deep­ly and ask ourselves about the children of those using us to perpetrate this vio­lence, are they partaking in this violence? It has got to a point where we need to make a resolution as a peo­ple, and ask those using us to bring their children to take the lead in perpetrat­ing violence in our locality. “That is why I have decided to grace this oc­casion today so that we can talk to ourselves and change the narrative of al­ways picking on people’s children to cause violence in any form we may think of it. I just painted the one of the political front, but the most worrisome is this one of inter-communal crisis that the youths have been moving about for the past one week in talking to the various kingdoms.” He added: “How come that people now leave where they have as their ancestral boundaries and are now rolling into oth­er areas belonging to the neighbour to argue over a mere piece of land we will resort to killing our­selves? “These are no times for the drums of war to be sounding in our clans; these are the times to be thinking of development, how we can bring develop­ment to our clans to make it better than when we met our communities, and we can only achieve this when