Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, the Deputy Governor of Lagos State has promised to donate an Information Communication Technology (ICT) Centre to Odu Abore Memorial Primary School, Mushin, his alma mater as the school celebrates its . Hamzat made the pledge while speaking during the 80th founders’ day anniversary celebration of the school. Ogun Monarch Writes Davido, Tasks Him On Out-Of-School Children… Another ICT Centre For Launch In October -Folarin He assured that the construction of the ICT Centre would commence immediately; adding that his decision to build the ICT Centre was informed by the fact that ICT made him what he has become in life today. “I intend to build an ICT Centre in this school because that is what made me what I have become in life today. Building an ICT Centre in the School will be a good one and I hope the school will take good care of it and maximize its potential,” he said. Hamzat further stated that the school is sacrosanct to everyone in the community and must not be used for any bad activity, adding “we must all do the right thing because of the future of the children,” he counseled. Speaking further, the Deputy Governor implored parents and teachers to always see children as gold and must take good care of them. “It is our responsibility to take care of the children and this we must do very well. It is only God that knows what the future holds for every child. So parents should ensure the proper care of their children. They should tell their children that there is no shortcut to success in life, rather that they should be hardworking and always put in their best in whatever they do. POLL He further charged that parents should take adequate advantage of the free education policy of the state government to enroll their children in public primary schools in the state as there are a lot of opportunities if they are educated. Addressing the pupils, Hamzat urged them to take their studies seriously, adding that the sky is the limit to what they can achieve in life. “Many of you can become Governor, Deputy Governor; Commissioner and so on. But it all depends on how committed you are to your education.” Earlier in her goodwill message, Folashade Adefisayo, Commissioner for Education, commended the State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Deputy Governor, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat for their genuine commitment to quality and qualitative education in the state. She further charged that parents should be more responsible in taking care of their children to ensure a greater and better future for them. Reps’ Member Donates Cash To Constituency APC Leaders In… Mixed Reactions Trail Davido’s N1.8m Donation To Rwandan Music… Similarly, Hon. Wahab Alawiye-King, Executive Chairman, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, admonished parents to go back to those days of responsible parenting when children were well behaved. “Everybody talks about fundamental human rights but nobody talks about responsible parenting. He charged parents to do their best as the government is doing all it can in terms of providing basic education for the children.