MTN Nigeria Communications PLC, has stated that it remains committed to continued engagement with the Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN), and its representatives via established channels Uto Ukpanah, Company Secretary, in a statement made available to our correspondent, while reacting to the Company’s anti-workers activities, and the plans for an industrial action, stated that the Company has not received any such communication from PTECSSAN and as such is unable to validate or comment on the issue. According to Ukpanah, “MTN Nigeria remains committed to continued engagement with PTECSSAN and if there are any concerns, we are sure that they will be brought to our attention and dealt with in a mutually beneficial manner”. SEC Harps On Professionalism In The Capital Market Heirs Life Affirms Retirees Guaranteed Annuity Pension For Life Esther Akinnukawe, MTN Nigeria’s Chief Human Resources Officer, while speaking on the matter, reiterated the Company’s people focus. She said: “Over the past two decades, MTN Nigeria has built a ‘people first’ culture that values diversity, inclusivity, and hard work. “The Company is dedicated to empowering employees and instilling in them a responsibility for our customers and communities. This is what defines and unites us,” adding that “all MTNERs are at liberty to exercise their right to free association. “Our Company cares immensely about the wellbeing of its workers, and regularly reviews people solutions and policies to ensure that they meet global best practice and make MTN Nigeria a great place to work. “We are committed to the development of our people and value their hard work and dedication. Our workforce is our most critical competitive advantage and a key differentiator in the marketplace, so we take staff welfare, remuneration and career development seriously. POLL “In line with this, we have stringent policies in place that promote meritocracy and protect our employees from all forms of harassment and discrimination and creates a workplace where employees feel valued and safe.”