The Provost of the Samaru College of Agriculture (SCA), of the Division of Agricultural Colleges, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Samaru, Kaduna State, Prof. Egbenya  Shaibu-Imodagbe, has called on government at all levels to revive agricultural extension services, stating that it would fix low productivity and  export rejection. The Provost stated this while speaking with newsmen on how low productivity of farmers, post-harvest challenges and rejection of fresh produce from Nigeria in the international markets could be tackled. Shaibu-Imodagbe, stated that extension services were vibrant and key to productivity of farmers when the country placed greater emphasis on agriculture in the colonial, pre-colonial and post-colonial eras. Palm Oil Investment Opportunities In Nigeria: Making 100% Return… Why Agricultural Performance Is Greatly Impaired By Inadequacy… He, however, said crude oil exploration and subsequent neglect of agriculture worsened the state of agricultural extension services, which further compounded the challenges of farmers, aggregators, post-harvest handlers and food vendors. He thereby, expressed the college’s readiness to partner with local government authorities, state governments and the lawmakers to train farmers, emplace a sustainable extension service system and post-harvest management training. He added that all hands should be on deck for the missions of feeding the country and safe food exports to be accomplished for more economic prosperity. “We at Samaru College are ready to mount long and short-term training and other capacity building techniques to unemployed youths to enhance their self-employment,” he said. To tackle rejection of produce in the international market, he said the college; the Winrock Intl and USAID had evolved a curriculum for a post-HND professional certificate in Pesticide Residue Analysis of commonly produced agricultural crops in Nigeria. POLL “This programme is borne out of the realisation that Nigerians have been attempting to export our agricultural food crops to better and international markets for higher revenue. “The aim of the programme is to, through analyses, provide detailed information on the composition of pesticides inherent in harvested foods due to use of the pesticides in the production and storage of the food crops, especially those being exported. However, he said such a programme would require the support of the Federal Government to establish detailed analytical laboratories equipped with photometric, spectrometric and chromatograhic equipment that will be used to undertake diverse analyses to categorize components of our exportable produce, especially food. He lamented the poor ratio of extension agents to farmers, saying it had never been favourable even before the collapse of the extension system in Nigeria. “Now, the need for the economic diversification is what attracts agricultural entrepreneurs to seek bigger markets internationally that are opening up this challenge. FG Initiates Measures To Boost Cocoa Production In Nigeria FG To Rebuild Agric Value Chain Processing Centres In Nasarawa He said the college had made highly significant contributions in the training of middle-level manpower in agriculture, predominantly in agricultural extension services, crop protection, farm management, farm mechanization and technology, among others. According to him, African countries, such the Gambia, Niger, Senegal, South Africa, and the Cameroons, have also benefitted from the training programmes obtainable from Samaru College of Agriculture.