YOLA – A political groups has flayed the hallucinations of APC representative, Abdulrazak Namdaz over bogus claims of occupying Adamawa’ Government House come 2023. The group lambasted the political neophytes who is the second term in the Federal House of Representatives of his ardent hallucinations of being hottest topic in Adamawa Politics. A Coalition of civil society organizations Kungiyar Adamawa Initiatives, (KAI ) has chided the member representing Mayo Belwa, Toungo, Ganye and Jada in the House of Representatives, Abdulrazak Namdas, over his bogus claims of being the hottest topic in Adamawa as a fluke and joke taken too far. Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… In a statement made available to newsmen in Yola by the Secretary-General of the coalition, Mohammed Idrisu, the groups tasked Namdas to advise his paymasters to put machinery in place to prepare him for his eventual defeat within his party primaries. The groups said the opinion published by mushroom online medium suggesting that Namdas is the hottest topic in Adamawa politics and that he will unseat Fintiri was not only reprehensive, but also raises the question of whether the opinion writer knows Adamawa politics. The group, however, urged the opinion writer to visit Adamawa State and get the shock of his life as Namdas will not even come third in his party primaries talk more of unseating the high performing Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri. The groups, speaking against the backdrop of the recent opinion published by Adamawa based mushrooms mediums had erroneously claimed that “Abdulrazak Namdas is the hottest topic in Adamawa Politics” expressed doubt over the sustainability of the shenanigans It said there is nothing real in the change being promoted by Namdas and his group, hinging their argument on the inability of Namdas to win any election convincingly in Adamawa. Mohammed said it was shameful for the mediums to publish such a write up on its platform, knowing that Namdas cannot come near APC ticket in 2023 talk less of unseating the incumbent. POLL According to him, it is unfortunate that people believe that politics has nothing to do with morality. The fact that this belief is often put into practice largely explains why we witness all sorts of absurdities in politics today.” The group urged Namdaz to prefer to face heavy political gladiators during APC primaries which will crush the ineptitude of the Namdaz hallucinations.