AWKA – Troops of 82 Division of Nigerian Army said it conducted operations to clear criminal havens, from where members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) operate at Azia, Orsumoghu, Lilu Forest, Mbosi and Uli in Ihiala and Orsu Local Government Areas of Anambra and Imo States respectively on Wednesday, February 23. According to the director of Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, during the clearance operations, troops overpowered and routed the dissidents, who it claimed staged an ambush against the troops. “The troops then proceeded to clear Lilu Forest, where they were met with resistance from the outlawed group. The criminals were again over ran by the troops who effectively cleared Lilu Forest and the adjoining areas earlier occupied by the dissidents”. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine It also said that during the clearance operations, the troops uncovered decomposing remains of kidnapped and murdered victims dumped in a deep well by members of the irredentist groups. Also, while conducting the operations, the troops encountered and cleared four ambush sites along Orsumoghu-Mbosi – Ihiala-Uli roads dislodging the irredentists from their criminal havens. The statement continued: “The gallant troops neutralized one of the criminals, arrested three suspects and recovered one Pump Action Shotgun, two live Cartridges, two mobile phones, One black coloured Toyota Hilux vehicle, a polythene bag containing substances suspected to be Cannabis and the sum of N1, 920”. It also said that in a separate operation conducted on Thursday February 2022, troops of the division in collaboration with the Nigerian Police bursted an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted the just concluded Local Government Council elections at some polling stations in Nkanu West of Enugu State. The troops, the statement said, uncovered seven AK 47 rifles, two Pump Action rifles, 10 rifle Magazines, eight live cartridges, 74 live rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, one hand grenade, a tipper truck containing 3 corpses among other items. POLL The items have been handed over to Enugu State Police Command for further action, it said. Meanwhile, Saturday Independent learnt that on Thursday night, unknown gunmen blocked Ufuma – Oko road, in Orumba North Local council where the hoodlums damaged one car, kidnapped two people and also killed one old man after they allegedly asked him certain questions about the Biafran struggle, which he claimed he didn’t know. According to sources the hoodlums allegedly told him he wasn’t fit to live and shot him.