P/HARCOURT  – Acting Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority NPA, Mohammed Bello-Koko has said that building a modern and resilient port infrastructure would fast track the country’s economic development, facilitate good-paying jobs and enable sustained peace across the country. Speaking at a meeting with port service providers shortly after a facility assessment tour of the Onne and Rivers Ports last week, Bello-Koko assured them of the Authority’s resolve to improve service and quality delivery at the Eastern ports, so that they can serve as competitive alternatives to the ports in Lagos. The NPA’s Acting Managing Director further stated that NPA on behalf of its supervising Ministry is working with relevant agencies towards reducing clearance time of imports and cost of handling of non-oil exports, to compliment the economic diversification agenda of the Federal Government. Ministry, First Bank Seal N50bn Funding Pact On Agriculture In… Grant Thornton Nigeria Lauds ICAN Growth Initiatives He disclosed that the Federal Executive Council, (FEC) has approved the first segment of the dual carriage road for the evacuation of cargo covering a distance of 1.2 km, stressing that it is expected that the next segment will be executed this year as provided in the 2022 budget. Hon. Minister of State for Transportation, Sen. Rukayat Saraki while delivering her keynote address at the workshop stated that “We have made budgetary provisions for the construction of these critical roads. “We have also observed that Onne has transformed into a very busy gateway, unfortunately, unauthorized persons have begun to find their way into the port to vandalize assets belonging to the Authority. “We all have noticed in recent months the upsurge in cargo traffic at Onne, there has been an improvement in the traffic here and there is need to ensure that what experienced in Lagos does not repeat itself here in terms of traffic congestion and the access roads which must be free of gridlock”. Speaking further, the Port MD said “In line with our infrastructure development and modernization agenda, we have come here to inspect the port internal roads network because we must develop the necessary infrastructure that would support and sustain the increasing cargo volumes at Onne Port and other port locations”