ABUJA – The European Union (EU) on Monday donated additional two million doses of Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccines to the Nigerian government. The Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr. Faisal Shuaib, who took the delivery of the vaccines during the handover ceremony, in Abuja on behalf of the Presidential Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha said the vaccine will be judiciously used for the benefits of Nigerians. According to him, the two of 2million doses of J&J Covid-19 vaccine donated by the European Union to Nigeria would be judiciously used for the benefit of Nigerians. 2023: Nigeria Owes Southeast So Much, Should Consider Region For… Nigeria Ignores Funding Technology But Investing In Corruption… Shuaib hinted that the Federal Government of Nigeria had earlier in 2021 procured 39,850,000 doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine from the AFREXIM Bank through the African Union. “With today’s donation of 1,936,050 doses by the European Union, the total number of doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccine available to Nigeria is about fifty-one million doses. At the moment, Nigeria currently has in-country 12,916,450 doses of the Johnson and Johnson vaccines. On behalf of the federal government of Nigeria, I want to sincerely appreciate the European Union for your continued partnership in development. We have no doubt about the commitment of the European Union to the eradication of COVID-19 from Nigeria and the rest of the world. The onus is upon us to make rational and effective use of the vaccines”. Dr Shuaib said. He also said that the administration of the J&J vaccines will be focusing at the moment, on those who are in the hard-to-reach areas (riverine areas, desert areas and security-compromised areas). POLL Saying, “This is because the Johnson & Johnson vaccine requires only a single dose for full vaccination. This way our health workers will be able to do what is called a ‘touch and go’ without compromising on their sasafety. I would like to assure our partners that Nigeria is committed to a safe, equitable and effective COVID-19 vaccination program. Let me also mention that the availability of different vaccine brands does not in any way mean that some categories of people are selected for high quality vaccines while others are targeted for low quality vaccines. While adding that , all COVID-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization are safe and can deliver adequate protection against the disease. While choice of vaccine is left for eligible persons to make, it is important to note that no particular vaccine brand is preferable to the other”. He said. NPHCDA boss stressed that Nigeria has vaccinated over fifteen million of her eligible population with the 1st dose. “We are using the platform of COVID-19 vaccination to also make available access to other primary healthcare interventions. We have been engaging with the poor performing states to identify areas where they would require more support from us and to also help them in identifying areas where they can improve in order to ramp up their vaccination coverage. Last week, we were in Enugu State where we engaged with all the stakeholders in the 5 South East States. With our attention now intensively focused on the states, we are hoping to see a more rapid vaccine coverage over the next couple of weeks”. He said. Exam Malpractice: WAEC’s Nigeria Examinations Committee… Presidency 2023: Saraki, Best For Nigeria – Edwin Clark He, however, appreciated the European Union for the generosity and called on all eligible Nigerians who are yet to be vaccinated to please avail themselves of current opportunities to receive their COVID-19 vaccines. Meanwhile, the leader of the European Union Delegation and EU Ambassador to Nigeria, Samuela Isopi, hinted that Team Europe was glad to join forces and pool together their resources to support partner countries in the common fight against the pandemic. “Today’s donation brings us collectively closer to reaching the milestone of 500 million doses delivered by COVAX, with 300 million donated by Team Europe, an achievement which is worth celebrating today. The European Union is so far the biggest donor of COVID-19 vaccines in the world. To date, Team Europe has mobilised at least EUR 38.5 billion, of which €8 billion for the African continent. The EU is now stepping up its effort to support Africa, where vaccination is lower than in other parts of the world. This will be at the centre of the discussions among Africa and Europe’s leaders at the upcoming EU-AU Summit next week in Brussels”. He said. She said that in 2020, Team Europe has been at the forefront of this fight and has quickly mobilized support to back the Government’s immediate response. ” As we head into the third year since the Covid-19 outbreak, the pandemic is not yet defeated. We must continue to work together, help partner countries to speed up vaccinations and to develop the capacity to manufacture vaccines locally. Until then, we need to make sure that we all continue to respect safety precautions”. Isopi added. Similarly, the World Health Organization (WHO) Country Representative to Nigeria, Dr. Walter Mulombo, said that the additional vaccines donated by the EU is safe. “As the only single-dose COVID-19 vaccine approved for use till date, the vaccines may be an important tool for accessing difficult terrains and population. These vaccines are safe and effective and will be the game-changer”. Mutombo said. He stated that the WHO will continue to support countries to reach their vaccination targets. “As I mentioned previously, vaccines are a critical tool in the battle against COVID-19. These vaccines are safe and effective and will be the game – changer: but for the foreseeable future, we must continue wearing masks, physically distance and avoid crowds. We can end the acute phase of the pandemic this year, we can end COVID-19 as a global health emergency, and we can do it this year with observance of public health measures and increased vaccination coverage remain our best defense against another surge. WHO is constantly analysing data as we receive them and working closely with relevant government agencies to use the data to help inform, initiate, and implement response actions, as well new policies, and strategies at National, State and LGA levels”. Mulombo said. Also, the UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Dr. Peter Hawkins, hinted that the latest donation would help Nigeria to plan and manage the available vaccines effectively. He, however, called on all donors to invest in the immunisation system and primary healthcare structure for quick response to accelerate vaccine-derived diseases. He also pointed out that the two-year life span of the vaccines gives the Nigerian government enough time to get to people in hard-to-reach areas.