Before going into the nitty-grit­ty of the implications of the continuous retention of fuel subsidy in our National Budgets successively in the past four decades or so, and which by implica­tion indicate that the welfare of Ni­gerians is in jeopardy as they would be enmeshed in a poverty trap for a long time, it is proper to explain the etymology of the phrase -kicking the can down the road which is the centerpiece of this article. The aim of this essay is to determine whether the decision to reverse the planned ter­mination of fuel subsidy by the middle of this year, instead of retaining the debilitating petrol pump price subsi­dy for another 18 months is justifiably sustainable or injurious as it appears to pose a manifest peril to the progress and prosperity of the good people of our potentially great country. The Oxford dictionary defines the title of this intervention — kicking the can down the road — as putting off confronting a difficult issue or mak­ing an important decision, typically on a continuing basis. According to Webster dictionary: “around the mid- 1980s, a new phrase began to be heard in the U.S. Congress. To “kick the can down the road” became, in the rheto­ric of some lawmakers, a colorful and mildly critical new way of referring to putting off work on an issue for a later date.” And in the 1990s, it was George Bush, the 41st president of the United States of America, USA, who popu­larised the use of the colourful met­aphor when he made the following statement: “The average American knows what’s going on, I think. And I think they know that the Congress will continue to kick this can down the road and that they’ve got to act.” Education Sector And FG’s Promises If I Were Tinubu By reversing itself in the decision to end petrol subsidy in the 2022 bud­get, current Nigerian leaders of the executive and legislative arms of gov­ernment in the persons of President Muhammadu Buhari and senate pres­ident Ahmed Lawan seem to be ‘kick­ing the can down the road’ as president George Bush accused the Congress of the USA in the 1990s. The fuel subsidy policy, of which our country has literally been burning cash in excess of one trillion naira an­nually on the average in the past few decades; to most discerning Nigerians has become a sort of scourge and an al­batross on successive administrations. Although it is a well-acknowledged fact that subsiding fuel pump price in Nigeria is not sustainable, no head of state or president since the era of Ibra­him Badamasi Babangida as military head of state in the 1980s, through the tenure of Sani Abacha and the presi­dency of Olusegun Obasanjo, Umar Musa Yar’adua , Goodluck Jonathan, to the incumbent, Buhari has had the ‘balls’ (pardon the porn) and leader­ship machismo or gumption to kill the vicious dragon gnawing at our dear country’s treasury via petrol subsidy. Thankfully, the Nigerian Econom­ic Summit Group, NESG has just put the frightening reality more starkly by stating in its latest Economic Out­look report that: petrol subsidy pay­ments rose by a mind-blowing 477% to N3.64 trillion in the past seven (7) years, which is between 2015 till date. A breakdown of the figures by NESG reveals that the cost of petrol subsidy annually rose from N307 billion in 2015 to N1.77 trillion last year and for 2022, there is a provision of N3 trillion, which is almost a doubling of last year’s N1.77 trillion. In light of the jarring statistics about how the cost of petrol subsidy has skyrocketed such that it is drain­ing our treasury, it is trite to state that it is the failure by our past and present leaders to act boldly by quickly decapi­tating the dragon of petrol subsidy-the no 1 financial capital draining policy in our country in the past four decades, that is responsible for the current snowball effect being experienced. Leveraging NESG data, subsidizing petrol pump prices evolved from 2015 into a sort of malignant tumor that has become cancerous to the extent that it has currently metastasized into a debilitating and terminal disease af­flicting our country. With President Buhari capitulat­ing to the fear of probable backlash of civil disturbance that petrol subsidy removal may cause (as orchestrated by organized labor leaders) and thus reversing the decision to suspend his earlier decision to part ways with the anti-progress petrol subsidy regime; the incumbent president joins the in­famous list of heads of government of Nigeria-military and democratic-that petrol subsidy has overwhelmed and demystified. POLL The irony of it all is that president Buhari was propelled into office in 2015 because it was felt that his track record as a no-nonsense and straight speaking former army general, he has the capacity and ability to make hard decisions to eliminate Boko Haram and drastically reduce insecurity, end the obnoxious fuel subsidy regime and improve on the political electoral sys­tem beyond the level that his predeces­sors Umaru Yar’adua and Goodluck Jonathan had taken reformation of Nigeria’s shambolic electoral system. But alas, President Buhari has proven not to be the proverbial knight in shining armor by not stepping up to the plate to make the hard deci­sions. Instead, he has demurred on the outlined four critically important policy planks that have the capacity to change the fortunes of our dear coun­try from a basket case to a success sto­ry and offer the long-suffering masses a better future. It is both gutting and sacrilegious that our country is not only borrowing to fund infrastructure as evidenced by the nation’s horrendous debt profile that has skyrocketed to almost $38 billion in 2021 from around $10 billion in 2015, (before the advent of the in­cumbent government)it is also basi­cally currently borrowing to pay the salaries of public servants as it runs a deficit budget whereby the revenue projected to be generated by govern­ment is far less than its proposed ex­penditure for the same period. To put the scandalous financial situation in our country mildly, the inability to pay workers’ salaries with­out resorting to borrowing is not only highly embarrassing, but also sacrile­gious to men and women of goodwill. More so because when our political leaders have chosen to literally burn N3 trillion on fuel subsidy annually, the nation is going a-borrowing to pay public and civil servants salaries. It is not only incomprehensible, but also outrageous that while neglecting the existential challenge of unstable pow­er supply bedeviling our cherished country, a provision for fuel pump price subsidy in the national budget for 2022 to the tune of a whopping three (3) trillion naira, has been made. Imagine the difference that invest­ing N3 trillion in the current epileptic electricity power sector would make by enabling us to put behind our cur­rent circumstances of practically being our individual sources of elec­tricity, to a situation whereby supply of electricity from the grid is boosted in the nearest future via tapping of solar, wind and all the other renewable sources of energy. Social Media As The New Political Wrestling Ground Restructure Nigeria Before 2023 Elections The drastic and dramatic increase in the budgetary pro­vision for fuel subsidy is accord­ing to Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, who is Nigeria’s minister of finance, borne out of the concern that the already highly distressed mass­es of Nigeria can no longer bear further hardships that would be triggered by fuel subsidy removal by mid-year as earlier proposed. Her alternative to pro­viding N3 trillion in budget 2022 and eliminating petrol subsidy is the suggestion that the govern­ment engages in cash payout to the poorest Nigerians. The payment to the poor could have amounted to cashing out about N2.4 trillion yearly. That is N600 billion less than the N3 trillion now allocated in this year’s appropria­tion document. The finance minister’s proposition is, perhaps, a better evil. But given what happened to trader Moni, and all the other cash payment gambits used by the incumbent gov­ernment to hoodwink the masses while bulking them, the finance minister was overruled. And she was literally told to keep her bright idea to herself because it is susceptible to being hijacked by racketeers who are ever ready to take advantage of any government subsidy regime as is the case with the foreign exchange mar­ket managed by the CBN where the powerful in our society are feeding fat via arbitrage and round-tripping, no matter how the CBN governor tries to plug the loopholes. So the jacking up of the appropria­tion for fuel subsidy that was in excess of N400 billion passed by the National Assembly, NASS to N3 trillion followed president Mohammadu Buhari’s change of mind from embarking on a phased removal of the obnoxious sub­sidy that could have been concluded in the second half of this year, (June 2022) but now extended to eighteen (18) months’ time. It all started when senate president Ahmed Lawan, perhaps persuaded by the case made by organized labor leaders that were threatening to go on strike should petrol subsidy be removed, visited the president in Aso Rock Villa shortly after the resump­tion of NASS from the end of year recess for consultations. It would be recalled that the senate president later emerged from that meeting and announced to Nigeri­ans that Buhari is not the author of the fuel subsidy removal earlier an­nounced by finance minister Mrs. Ahmed, therefore he has no hands in it. But the truth is that the fuel sub­sidy regime is part of the conditions in the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA. And I suspect that it might have been part of the recommendations of the economic management team led by Doyin Salami, the economics egghead recently engaged by president Buhari as his chief economic adviser. What the new position of the gov­ernment on retention of petroleum pump price subsidy basically means is that until June 2023, that is one month after president Buhari must have left office on May 29, 2023, and which is ef­fective in about seventeen (17) months’ time, the government will continue to subsidize fuel to the value of N270 bil­lion monthly. What is an escapist policy? The beefed-up petrol subsidy in budget 2022 from about N400 billion to N3 tril­lion represents a significant percent­age of the total national budget valued at the sum of =N=17,126,873,917,692 (Seventeen Trillion, One Hundred and Twenty-Six Billion, Eight Hun­dred and Seventy-Three Million, Nine Hundred and Seventeen Thou­sand, Six Hundred and Ninety-Two Naira) only; and which was passed by National Assembly, NASS, at end of last year. In the light of the sextupling of the provision from roughly N400 billion to N3 trillion, many pressing questions are waiting to be answered. And these are; would the approved budget be re­turned to NASS for a review or would the change be addressed via a supple­mentary budget or an amendment of PIA that mandates end of fuel subsidy, would be required? As if trying to balance up or net off the increase of budgetary provi­sion for petrol subsidy in budget 2022 from about N400 billion to N3 trillion, an action apparently influenced by senate president Ahmed Lawan, who, as stated earlier, is likely driv­en by the fear of the possibility of labour and civil unrests, NASS has just given Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs, a marching or­der to generate a minimum of three trillion naira in 2022. The reason given by NASS for set­ting the high target is to generate more income in order to reduce the current massive borrowing by the federal gov­ernment to fund its operations. What the astronomical target of N3 trillion set for the money-generating organi­zations portends is that the already highly burdened Nigerians would be further taxed more heavily in the year 2022 to buffet the highly unwieldy bureaucracy that needs to be stream­lined, as opposed to being fed like an ogre with insatiable appetite into which government and governance have degenerated in our clime.