LAGOS – The World Health Organisa­tion (WHO) has said that only deployment of new generation anti-viral drugs would stop coronaviruses or flu variants constantly mutating and rein­venting themselves, not vac­cines and regular mass testing. The WHO in a broadcast fur­ther explained that both mea­sures have faced distribution and public hesitancy issues, while mixed messaging on social distancing and wearing face masks also continues to plague our communities. The United Nations (UN) health body, for the umpteenth time also warned against eas­ing of pandemic restrictions, noting that new variants can flare up anywhere until there is a permanent cure using new generation anti-viral drugs. Bomb Terrorists Out Of Their Hideouts – Senate Urges FG Be Good Ambassadors Of Justice, Lagos Commissioner Urges New… It said, “We should also con­sider this present-day conun­drum against historical par­allels such as the Spanish Flu (1918-20) when the initial death toll was relatively contained, lulling a global population al­ready fatigued by the devasta­tion of WW1 into thinking the worst was over. “But that virus then mutat­ed into its most deadly strain, killing 50 million people when earth’s population numbered less than two billion – it’s now close to eight billion. “So, as the COVID storm ap­pears to fade, governments, sci­entists, and authorities like the WHO face a difficult balancing act: managing the expectations of their people, businesses, and economies, while guarding against another COVID vari­ant, protecting lives, and im­proving longevity and overall health provision. “This is before even starting to look at long-term pandemic damage done to millions of people with other conditions, denied proper care during COVID or left with the varied and insidious effects of Long COVID”, WHO said. It said another challenge is that COVID-19 has been just one of several recent viruses with global pandemic poten­tial, including SARS, Indian Flu Variant, Ebola, and Zika Virus. POLL In fact, over 100 potential­ly dangerous pathogens have infiltrated the human popu­lation over the past 15 years and, due to the modern way we live, such risk is unlikely to change. Therefore, it said, as with climate change, a long-term pandemic protection plan is vital as the world cannot af­ford the millions of human lives and trillions of dollars of economic loss inflicted by a more virulent virus or strain like the final wave of Spanish Flu. “Instead, a permanent solution to virus and strain outbreaks is imperative. These must come from ac­celerated drug development programmes in the form of a ‘once and for all’ anti-viral drug or drugs that can block coronaviruses and flu vari­ants from finding a human host in the first place. “So, who is working on this challenge, and what advanced technology is needed to create a timely long-term solution, in the same way as penicillin and other antibiotics changed healthcare more than 50 years ago?” Established ‘Big Pharma’ names Merck and Pfizer, al­ready have anti-viral products available claiming to do just that, though a major report from Nano Magazine recent­ly suggested these were re­purposed drugs from prior programmes and required frequent re-dosage: eight times per day for Merck’s drug Mol­nupiravir and ‘only’ four doses per day for Pfizer’s Paxlovid be­cause it must also be taken with an HIV drug.