LAGOS – The General Overseer, The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor E. A. Adeboye, through the Christian Social Responsibility (CSR) arm of the church, His Love Foundation, commissioned Enoch and Folu Adeboye Dialysis Center at Wuse District Hospital, FCT,Abuja on February 17th 2022. The center was equipped with eight dialysis machines, one medical water reverse osmosis purification system, and one 30 KVA generator. According to HLF, the donation and dedication of The Enoch and Folu Adeboye Dialysis Center at Wuse District Hospital, FCT,Abuja , was in commemoration of Pastor E. A. Adeboye 80th birthday celebration and would be the 20th in the series of specialized medical interventions – Intensive Care Units (ICU)/ Dialysis Centres / Cancer Screening Centre / Primary Healthcare Centres – donated by His Love Foundation across Nigeria. RCCG Prince Of Peace Mega Parish Boosts Community We Need Impactful Leadership In Nigeria – James Pastor Adeboye appreciated the Lord Almighty for granting him another opportunity to celebrate life and hoped that the donations would go a long way to help people who would one day come back again and do more than he did.He urged the general public to always invest in humanitarian services which according to him reduce pains and improve quality of living especially among the needy. Pastor Idowu Iluyomade, Assistant Continental Overseer and Intercontinental Overseer, CSR, said, “Our various health care interventions have benefited over 8,892,377 that is almost 9 million people in the last four years to the glory of God, and we have spent over N25 billion on various social impact initiatives across the country in the last four years. However, there are still many lands to cover. Meeting the requirements of the Sustainable Development Goals for health is a daunting task for developing nations like ours”. While unveiling the center, Federal Capital Territory Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, commended the leadership of the church for the choice of a lifesaving project at this time of rising cases of kidney disease, stressing that the church was beginning to play one of its crucial roles of caring for the downtrodden in the society. Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who quoted copiously from the holy book to buttress the significant of the dialysis centre, noted that kidney disease when detected early could be managed and corrected, just as she advocated for subsided dialysis cost in view of the economic realities. The foundation said there is need to extend its Christian Social Responsibility impacts across the country then calls on all its members globally, social action minded individuals and corporate organizations that believe in our vision with a view to partnering with as little as N1000 a month or N12,000 lump sum as a year donation or more from a partner to be able to do more for more people, impact more communities and transform many more lives. POLL It was gathered that, His Love Foundation (HLF) – the charity arm of the Redeemed Christian Church of God is involved in Social, Health, Education, Media, Business, Arts and Culture, Governance and Sports. With over 44,000 operating centers all over Nigeria and in 197 nations of the earth.