LAGOS – Some youths under the aegis of the Rescue Nigerian Mission (RENMISS) project have vowed to deliver 30 million of their votes to Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello in the 2023 presidential election. The youths who assembled in Gombe to launch the group on Saturday, said they will do all within their power to ensure Bello emerges as President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor. The youths, who were in Kano last week, insisted that Governor Bello must contest the Presidency of Nigeria, assuring him of 30 million ‘conservative’ votes across the length and breadth of Nigeria. Green Energy Perfect Plans To Commission LPG Extraction, Power… Mecho Autotech Raises $2.15m For Vehicle Maintenance, Repair… According to them, RENMISS is a youth support group agitating for good and youthful governance in Nigeria. The National Coordinator of the group, Abdullahi Damat, who led other youth leaders across the North- East, said the youths had resolved to shun money politics and use their numerical strength to put their preferred candidate in power. While commending the Governor for his giant strides in infrastructural development, security, education, women and youth inclusiveness, among others, Damat said Bello had shown that he had the capacity to take Nigeria to the desired destination and must be supported. “We will go from house to house, door to door, to canvass support. The politicians can be doing their own. But we are ready. Let people bring their money, we will collect, but we will put Governor Bello there with our collective will. “The youth population in Nigeria is massive but we are assuring the Governor that with our efforts, we will mobilise 30 million conservative votes. It will surely be more than that,” he maintained. POLL Chief of Staff to Governor Yahaya Bello, Abdulkareem Jamiu Asuku, who was invited as special guest to the event, being a youth himself, in his remarks, called on Nigerian youths to support the Governor for 2023 presidency. Asuku said the youths must begin to look inward and support one of them who had shown capacity in governance, if Nigeria must get it right this time. He said he was happy that people outside the Government had seen the good works and capacity of the Governor and were, on their own, taking the good message all over the country. While commending the youths for their initiative, he said, “Governor Yahaya Bello is the only one who will provide purposeful leadership and good governance if elected as President in the 2023 general elections.”