The ability to send money to family and friends back at home via digital channels is becoming increasingly important, primarily driven by COVID-19 stay-at-home measures. This has led to a “new normal” that has seen more people favouring digital platforms. Research and Markets have predicted that the global digital remittance market growth could reach $42.46 billion by 2028. WorldRemit, a fully digital international money transfer company, said it has contributed immensely in eliminating the need for customers to travel long distances only to face long processing times to send money, while also avoiding delays for recipients. CBN Launches 100 For 100 PPP, Disburses N22.2bn To 28… Fidelity Bank Rewards Customers In GAIM 5 Promo It is as simple as owning a laptop or a mobile phone, opening an account on our website or app and following a few steps for funds to be delivered almost instantly to recipients. When customers send money, they want to know that their funds will reach recipients without any incident. As a major player in the digital financial services ecosystem, consumer data privacy and protection is of utmost importance at WorldRemit. If customers’ data gets into the wrong groups’ hands, it could lead to significant financial losses. Hence WorldRemit has taken major steps to ensure that private information in its database stays private. “Connections through the website and mobile app are fully encrypted to guard against any third-party interception; customers can transact through our platforms without worry. We also adopt 3D technology for extra safety assurance, meaning that only customers and card issuers can view personal bank information provided. Our compliance and data security team constantly monitors the system to identify potential breaches before they occur”, it added. POLL The company also said it has provided a system that enabled sending from 50 countries to 130 countries worldwide with a significant footprint in Africa, providing support to its customers when they choose to move to any country within WorldRemit coverage area. “Our partnerships with various local banks allow us to offer a wide variety of options to our customers when it comes to ways in which they can receive their funds quickly and safely”, the company said.