LAGOS – Justice Hakeem Oshodi of an Ikeja High Court on Friday sentenced billionaire kidnapper, Chukwudimeme Onwuama­dike, otherwise known as Ev­ans, and two others to life im­prisonment for conspiracy and kidnapping of a businessman, Donatus Dunu. Justice Oshodi found Ev­ans and others guilty of a two-count charge of kidnap­ping the Managing Director of Maydon Pharmaceuticals Limited, Donatus Dunu. Others sentenced to life im­prisonment alongside Evans are Uche Amadi and Okwu­chukwu Nwachukwu. Port Protest: NAGAFF Withdraws Members, Cites Hoodlums’… We Have Not Received Any Suit On Igboho’s Trial –ECOWAS Court The judge held that the prosecution had successfully proven the charge against the three convicts beyond a rea­sonable doubt. He concluded that the ev­idence tendered before the court especially the video evi­dence collaborated the guilt of the convicts. Justice Oshodi, however, discharged and acquitted Ogechi Uchechukwu and two former soldiers of the Nigeri­an Army, Chilaka Ifeanyi and Victor Aduba for lack of suffi­cient evidence linking them to the crime. The court noted the alloc­utors of the defence counsels Olanrewaju Ajanaku, H.O. Aji­bola that the convicts are first time offenders, are remorseful and learnt their lessons. The judge, however, dis­agreed with the defence law­yers that the convicts have shown remorse. POLL He held that they are unre­pentant and they comfortably lied to the court. The trial judge also noted the submission of the former DPP, Ms Titi Shitta-Bey that in view of the gravity of the offence and that kidnapping has been on the rise, that max­imum sentence be imposed to serve as deterrence to others. Justice Oshodi held that the defendants have not shown any remorse going by the vid­eo shown in court. “I believe a lesson must be taught to serve as deterrence to others. “The Law is the Law. Sec­tion 411 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of La­gos State (ACJL) 2015 must be applied to send the right mes­sage to the public that crime does not pay.” BREAKING: Billionaire Kidnapper, Evans, Others Convicted For… Troops Dislodge IPOB/ESN Camps In Imo, Anambra He further held, “under the section 411 of the law on which the convicts were arraigned, the penalty for the offence of kidnapping is life imprison­ment and the law does not give the court any discretion in the matter. “I hereby sentenced the three convicts, Chukwudi­meme Onwuamadike, Uche Amadi and Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu to life imprison­ment.” Recalled that the Lagos State government had ar­raigned the convicts before the court on August 30, 2017 Section 155 subsection 1 of the Administration of Crim­inal Justice Act 2017, carries life imprisonment. The prosecution closed its case against the defendants on January 10, 2020, after present­ing four witnesses, including Dunu while the defence closed its case on August 3, 2020, after the six defendants testified. Evans is also facing similar charges before Justice Olu­watoyin Taiwo and Justice Adedayo Akintoye of a Lagos State High court.