ASABA – Following the demise of one-year-old, Obinna Ohanazeze who was allegedly flogged to death by his teacher, Emeka Nwogbo in Asaba, Delta State Government has called for an immediate investigation by the Police into the death of the toddler. It was reported to the Nigeria Police Force, Delta State Command on February 10, 2022, that the toddler was severely flogged by a teacher of Arise and Shine School identified as Emeka Joshua Nwogbo. It was further reported that the victim was admitted to the Federal Medical Center, Asaba where he died in the early hours of February 12, 2022. IGR: FCT Losses N600bn Annually To Real Estate Sector, Onuh Hearken To Stakeholders, Inaugurate NDDC Board, Group Tasks… It was also learned the teacher who is the son of Mrs. Nwogbo, the Proprietress of the school were arrested upon the death of the toddler. Speaking yesterday during a visit to the Police Command, Commissioner of Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu who was in the company of Commissioner of Primary Education, Mr Chika Ossai, and Commissioner of Humanitarian Services, Barr. Bridget Anyafulu charged the Police that the state government will not leave any stone unturned in ensuring justice that justice was done. According to him, ” As a State Government, we are very much interested in this case not just because it brings negative publicity but because as a government we care for the life of a person who lives in Delta whether you are a Delta or not. “We will ensure that the state government follow this matter to a logical conclusion while observing the tenets of the law”. Commissioner of Information, Ali Mohammed Ari confirmed that the Command received the report of the manhandling of the deceased on 10 February 2022 by his teacher Emeka Nwogbo, 24-year-old son of the Proprietress of the school, Mrs Nwogbo. POLL He further mentioned that an autopsy will be carried out on the deceased to ascertain the medical cause of death, stressing that the case will be charged to court after investigations. When quizzed by newsmen, the suspect Emeka Nwogbo confessed that he flogged the deceased for pushing another child, adding that he did not flog the child to death. Earlier while speaking to the mother of the deceased, Mrs Gift Ohanazeze said that she would continue to seek justice for her son, who was brutally beaten to death by the suspect, Emeka Nwogbo.