CHIOMA UMEHA The exact number of child soldiers worldwide is not yet confirmed, but current estimates revealed that in 2018, the number is likely to be in the tens of thousands. But, the sad truth is that children have been used in hostilities – including as human bombs – by state and non-state groups in at least 18 conflicts since 2016 alone. For Abednego Ekoko, For Johnson Barovbe APC Yoruba Candidates Want To Reap Without Sowing (2) Today, a staggering 46 nations continue to attract and enlist people under the age of 18 into their militaries. These are some of the statistics from the Child Soldiers World Index — a newly released database that examines UN Member States for their use of child soldiers in the armed forces and non-state groups. The statistics are indeed concerning, with even the UN declaring that the number of at risk children is increasing at an “alarming rate”. About 3,500 children were recruited as child soldiers by armed groups in Northeast Nigeria between 2013 and 2017 alone, according to the United Nations (UN). So when did child soldiers start in Nigeria? UNICEF says some 95,000 children were recruited globally between 2005 and 2020 and that more than 3,500 were recruited by militants in Nigeria between 2013 and 2017. POLL So what exactly is driving children to become involved with armed groups? And, what can be done to get a grip on the crisis? These are the questions that the United Nations University (UNU), the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations, and Luxemburg and Switzerland have been working to answer by conducting field research on child recruitment practices in Mali, Iraq and Nigeria. According to the report, entitled Cradled by Conflict: Children in Contemporary Conflict, policymakers are focusing too much on the idea that child soldiers join armed groups because they have been ‘radicalised’. “Currently there is a tendency to attribute child involvement in conflicts to them becoming radicalised and swept up in this violent ideology… but this is rarely the primary factor motivating child association in armed groups,” the project’s leader researcher Siobhan O’Neil told IPS. In Nigeria, Boko Haram has conflated its religious ideology with a rejection of the Nigerian state, the latter of which, the report found “may be the greater driver of association with Boko Haram for Nigerians who have experienced state oppression and violence.” Aregbesola’s Anti-Omoluabi Ethos The Fiendish Ambush Of AdichieChimamanda At Her Mum’s Funeral In the report, researchers urged for more effective international efforts to prevent and respond to child recruitment and use by armed groups. This includes, avoiding programmes focused primarily on ideological factors; incorporating only ideological components where individually necessary and where they can be embedded into larger, holistic efforts to address the needs and risks of children. Others are to ensure all interventions are empirically based; rigorously assess interventions over the long term and engage children not just as beneficiaries, but as partners. Truly, UNICEF for the umpteenth time called for an end to the recruitment and use of children by armed groups in Nigeria, and the release of those in the custody of such groups barely one week ago. They also urged support for former child soldiers in north-east Nigeria. The call came on the International Day Against the Use of Child Soldiers, otherwise known as “Red Hand Day”. For 13 years, armed conflict in north-east Nigeria has claimed thousands of lives and disrupted livelihoods and access to essential services for children and their families. Nearly one million homes and 5,000 classrooms have been razed in the protracted armed conflict. Since 2009, more than 8,000 girls and boys have been recruited and used as child soldiers in different roles by armed groups. “We call for an immediate end to the recruitment and use of innocent children as soldiers or for any other conflict-related role,’’ said Phuong T. Nguyen, UNICEF Chief of Maiduguri Field Office. “It is unacceptable and unconscionable that girls and boys continue to serve on the frontlines of a conflict they did not start.” UNICEF called on the Nigerian authorities to sign the Handover Protocol for children encountered in the course of armed conflict in Nigeria and the Lake Chad Basin Region, which would end the detention of children formerly associated with armed groups. The Handover Protocol would ensure children encountered during military and security operations are transferred from military custody to civilian child protection actors to support their reintegration into society through the provision of family tracing and reunification services and medical, educational and psychosocial recovery services. Support would also life skills support, skills training and links to decent work. The Borno State Child Protection Act, recently signed into law by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum, prohibits and prescribes stiff penalties for the violation of children’s rights. The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict also prohibits the forced recruitment or conscription of children under 18 by government forces, and the participation of children under 18 in active hostilities by any party. Ratified by the Government of Nigeria in 2012, the Optional Protocol places obligations on non-state armed groups, not to, under any circumstances, recruit or use in hostilities persons under the age of eighteen. “We must do more to ensure that Nigeria’s children do not suffer the worst impacts of conflict,” said Phuong T. Nguyen. “We owe girls and boys a chance to leave the horrors of conflict behind. Every day of delay in the custody of armed groups is a tragedy with grave implications for the children, families, and Nigerian society as a whole.”