Company’s Operations In Cote D’ívoire, Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, The Netherlands Recognized Olam, the global food and agri-business giant, has been recertified by the Top Employers Institute in 2022 for excellence in HR practices for the Africa region, a statement from Olam said. The Company’s operations in Cote d’Ívoire, Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, has been awarded for the strength and maturity of their HR practices. Paying Attention To Details How Retailers Might Shop In Two Decades – Euromonitor The auditing survey from the Top Employers Institute highlighted Olam as excelling in each of the assessment categories, which included people strategy, organisation and change, career, digital HR, work environment, employer branding, talent acquisition and onboarding, performance management, learning, wellbeing, rewards and recognition, diversity and inclusion, and sustainability. Jaideep Biswas, Senior Vice President & Regional Head of Human Resources, at Olam, said: “To have secured the Top Employer Certification for two consecutive years reinforces our belief that our team is our greatest asset. Even amidst a global pandemic, we did not reduce our focus. We were able to make our employees our top priority to keep them safe, engaged, and inspired. At Olam, we will continue to invest in our people because it makes business sense. I’m extremely proud of our team and grateful for this recognition.” Over the past three decades, Olam has grown to become one of the largest employers in Africa with a strong emphasis on best-in-class talent practices to engage a strong and diverse talent pool to support its business operations. These certifications demonstrate Olam’s ongoing commitment to identify, attract, develop and retain skilled talent at scale using innovative approaches tailored to each country’s specific needs. For Top Employers Institute CEO David Plink,”Olam has continued to show that it prioritizes maintaining excellent people practices in their workplace. In the past year they continued to meet the challenges of the wider world of work while working determinedly to positively impact the lives of their workforce. We are pleased to celebrate and applaud the organizations that have been certified as Top Employers in Africa this year.” Top Employers Institute is the global authority on recognizing excellence in people practices. To be eligible, the company must have at least 250 local or 2,500 employees globally as well as advanced HR practices. A certification programme that enables organizations to assess and improve the workplace environment.