LAGOS  – The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), has demanded for more allocation of power from the national grid to guarantee adequate supply to Lagosians. Oritsedere Otubu, the new Chairman EKEDC, made this request during his visitation to some stakeholders in the power industry at the weekend. Accompanied by the company’s MD/CEO, Engr. Adeoye Fadeyibi; EKEDC Director, Ernest Oji; and some members of the management team, the chairman visited the Ministry of Power, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), and Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Niger Delta Power Holding Company, and the Nigerian Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO). Stanbic IBTC To Connect With Youths At Africa NXT Remita Commences Sale Of JAMB ePINs 2022 To Candidates Godwin Idemudia, General Manager, Corporate Communications, EKEDC, in a statement, said that the focus of the new chairman is to improve the exemplary relationship between Eko DisCo and the stakeholders in the power sector as well as consolidate the achievements of his predecessor. At the meetings, Otubu appreciated the efforts of the various stakeholders towards Eko Disco and assured them of the company’s support to improve electricity supply in the country. The Chairman also cited the recent power supply issue in Lagos due to the drop in generation, which led to frequent load shedding in many areas under the DisCo. He described the network as a strategic one growing rapidly because of increased industrial and commercial activities, which have brought about the demand for more power supply. Hence, the inability to even meet up with the existing demand poses a real crisis for the DisCo. Engr. Abubakar Aliyu, the Minister of Power, at the Federal Ministry of Power, aligned with the Chairman’s call for more collaboration by the actors in the power sector and stated his confidence in the DisCo based on its track record of performance in NESI, especially on financial remittance. POLL He also explained that the Federal Government is currently working on projects to expand the capacity of the national grid to better serve not only Lagos, but also the entire country. Alex Okoh, the Director General of BPE, also congratulated Otubu on his appointment, emphasising that Eko DisCo occupies a strategic franchise area in the power industry, thus such agenda is significant to the national economy and ensure that the intention of the privatisation process in making the sector more favourable to consumers and investors is achieved.