GOMBE – Barely 24 hours after Malam Hamza Adamu Soye’s resignation as Chairman, Gombe State Sports Commission, Governor Muhammad Imuwa Yahaya has approved the appointment of Olanre Daniel as the new chairman of the commission with immediate effect. Malam Hamza Adamu Soye, had tendered his resignation as Chairman of the Gombe State Sports Commission Tuesday morning, joining some other aides of the Governor who recently resigned. Soye, a known sports enthusiast, had held the position since the inception of the Inuwa administration in 2019, threw in the towel without giving any reason other than thanking Inuwa for the opportunity to serve in the administration in a letter that occupied the media airspace in Gombe. Formulate Deliberate Sports  Policy To Keep Youths Engaged… Super Bowl: Nigerian, Hakeem Adeniji To Feature In World’s… However, unlike other aides whose positions are still vacant, Governor Inuwa Yahaya swiftly appointed Olanre Daniel, who also doubles as the Chairman of the State’s darling soccer team, Gombe United football club Wednesday morning. The Secretary to the Gombe State Government, Professor Ibrahim Abubakar Njodi who conveyed the Governor’s approval, said the decision was sequel to the resignation of the erstwhile Chairman of the Commission, Malam Hamza Adamu Soye. However, in the statement made available to newsmen by the Director General, Press Affairs, Government House Gombe, Ismaila Uba Misilli, said, “It should be noted that Hamza Soye’s decision to relinquish his position is not unconnected with the irreconcilable differences between him and the management of Gombe United Football Club, especially over running the affairs of the club”. The statement read further, “On this, Government is resolutely behind the management of Gombe United who is living up to expectation, by not only getting the club elevated to the top league in the country, the Nigeria Professional Football LEAGUE (NPFL), but also making the state proud with their remarkable performance”. Misilli’s statement said Government is pleased that the current management of the top NPFL club has repositioned the team within a short period, making it one of the clubs to beat in the country’s top-flight league. POLL It assures the management and indeed the entire sports-loving people of the state that Government will continue to give the Savannah scorpions all the maximum support they require to succeed.