LAGOS – The leader of a non-government organisation, Regalo Hope Foundation, Chinenye Onuorah has attributed the rising youth unemployment, the huge number of out-of-school children and the high illiteracy rate as the major causes of violence and youth militancy all across the country. The advocate of youth advancement noted further that since the nation returned to civil rule in 1999, the country has not done enough for youths all over the country due to inadequate funding, saying the outcome had been increasing in restlessness among the youths. Speaking during the quarterly youth training programme for youths at the Regalo Hope Foundation Resource and Learning centre in Lagos, she lamented that budgetary allocation to the education sector in all states still falls below 40 percent since the return to democratic rule. Aliyu Unveils Enoch & Folu Adeboye Dialysis Centre In Wuse… How Climate Change Affects Nigeria’s Economy, Security – Akpabio Her words, “When you have a situation where students get little support while schooling and they graduate and roam the streets for years before a few of them could hope to secure a job you can then imagine how easy it is going to be for the unemployed and idle hands to be predisposed to manipulation by demagogues and all sorts of opportunists all around the nation. Onuorah assured that she would continue to stress the need for better attention to the needs of the youths because they are the leaders of tomorrow. “It is good to develop infrastructure but without people, development infrastructure will be mismanaged or damaged or wasted. “It is simple logic to say that very poor and illiterate citizens cannot fully appreciate the significance of corporate care for public facilities In Nigeria. We have cases of youths going out at midnight to cut electricity supply or scoop petrol from pipelines because those young people do not know the negative implications of their actions. “And this is usually traceable to youths who are suffering from ignorance and poverty.” POLL Onuorah, therefore, called on the National and State Assemblies to do a comprehensive review of existing youth development programmes all around the nation so as to encourage all the levels of government participation, increase funding for education and other youth development activities.