LAGOS  – “Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle…,” Psalms 24 verse 7 (KJV). Beyond any reasonable doubt, the entire staff, management, and other stakeholders of Independent Newspapers Limited (INL) have been ushered into a new season of renewed hope and reignited fire of prayers. This new dawn began beaming out on Thursday, February 10, 2022, as various clerics made prophetic declarations into the lives of individuals and of the company. The biblical injunction prior stated is a call of hope to those who discern the times, stated Bishop Wale Oke, President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), founder and Presiding Bishop of Sword of The Spirit Ministries International, who was the guest minister at INL thanksgiving tagged, ‘Lift Up Your Heads O Ye Gates’, held at its corporate headquarters, Wempco Road, Ogba, Ikeja, Lagos. Nigeria Can’t Progress Without Restorative Justice – BSN… Cleric Calls For Continuous Intercession To Heal Nigeria Oke, represented by Archbishop Joseph Ojo of Calvary Kingdom Church and National Chairman State Inauguration Committee of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), noted that there was hope for the most widely read newspaper among the political and business elite even as he expressly assured that there was hope for the country. The revered cleric reiterated Job 14 verse 7, ‘For there is the hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, And that the tender branch thereof will not cease.’ He maintained that a new Nigeria was underway, as the gates of the media, church, banking sector, manufacturing, exporting were being divinely opened for the King of glory to come in. Oke who stressed that being optimistic was needed at a time like this, stated in his sermon: “I see a better Nigeria. I see a blessed and united nation, I see a vibrant economy. God loves this country. What do you see? Job once said, ‘When men are cast down, then thou shall say there is a lifting up; And he shall save the humble person. What shall we all do? Let us lift our heads in expectation and our hands in prayers. Prayers as incense set forth before God. And the lifting of hands as the evening sacrifice.” Nigeria’s political class, he warned, should not think they have the final say as God is still in charge of the country and the universe. He advised them to show more concern for the welfare of the citizenry and leave a good legacy instead of plundering the treasury. POLL “Let the political class lift up their eyes and see that they are not in charge. The Most High rules in the kingdom of men… There are divine watchers that watch over this nation. These divine watchers are more intelligent and equipped than INEC and all international observers that monitor our elections. “…Those who selfishly eat on political tables today may end up eating grass until they know that God is in charge. The political parties should look beyond themselves. There is a king coming in the King of Kings and the Lord of lords. He does not campaign, He does not solicit for votes, but the government is upon His shoulders. Can’t you see? Can’t you understand? The political class should see beyond themselves. See beyond your tenor,” he stated. He said further: “I see a new generation of political patriots coming…God bless Nigeria. God bless the church of Jesus Christ on earth. God bless and increase Independent newspapers, the sponsors and partners. God bless you all.” In a chat with SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, the guest minister, however, asked Nigerians not to fret as God was at work and would cause them to surmount insecurity and other challenges. On the 2023 general elections, Oke called on the Nigerian electorates, particularly Christians not to be docile but to be actively involved and choose wisely. Osa-Daniel Recalls God’s Mercy At 50th Birthday Let Your Faith Make You A Conqueror “There is hope a change is coming I believe it with all my heart insecurity will be a thing of the past very soon. I am sure because God is at work we should lift our heads and see insecurity and see beyond bandits, Boko Haram. Some of us have the eyes of faith. “When the servant of Elisha told him that we perish, he said ‘do not be afraid those that be for us are more than those that be against us.’ So there are forces working in favour of this country more than the forces that we think are challenging us. I believe there is hope. “Nigerians should not be selfish they should be patriotic, we see selfishness in many of our leaders, and they want to amass wealth for their family no matter forgetting that what they amass would dwindle after their demise. God is raising crop of leaders that are patriotic, if our leaders are patriotic definitely changes will come,” Oke stated. He added: “The 2023 general elections is in the hands of God because He rules in the affairs of men and gives to whomever He wills. God is in charge of this country. The politicians should look beyond their tenure and leave a legacy that others will emulate. I believe God will raise young people that have never been politicians and give them the spirit to rewrite the history of this country. “Political leaders want to be recycling themselves, voters should see beyond these class of persons and look for people that are patriotic. Patriotism is the word if people are not patriotic they will always think only about themselves and their families. God’s words say ‘what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and lose his soul.’” The cleric stated further: “In PFN we have an arm tailored towards educating Christians to belong to a political party, get their permanent voters card and get ready for the election. When things are done the way it should be it is the voters who determine who their leaders should be and you cannot be a voter without the voters’ card, we encourage you to be actively involved.” In line with the programme’s theme, Pastor Funso Odesola, Assistant General Overseer (Admin & Personnel) and Continental Overseer, Africa Continent 3 (South- West Nigeria and the Middle East), The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), spoke on ‘Gates’, which he said could be a source of blessings by God and could be used by the enemy to hinder progress. He emphasised the need for obedience to God’s words as a gateway to progress. Odesola, represented by Pastor Femi Olunuga, Pastor-in-Charge, RCCG Province 70, Region 1, also led prayers for the progress of the company and the staff while cautioning against laziness and procrastination. Mr. Steve Omanufeme, Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, appreciated God for His mercy and also thanked the guest ministers. In his remarks, he asked INL staff to be hopeful and brace up for the progress and opportunities ahead. Omanufeme represented by Don Okere, Editor Daily, stated: “I see hope, what we just demand is all of us reciprocating the gestures of the management. People are already pessimistic but this is our year of progress, opportunities. Let us persevere, work, not be lackadaisical and Key into the progress that is coming.” On his part, Pastor Yemi Adebisi, who is in charge of INL Christian Fellowship and the Saturday Editor, said the programme was birthed as a platform of showing gratitude to God for His unfailing love to the company, staff and everyone associated with the paper. He noted the peculiarity of INL’s culture of separating a day to collectively offer praises, stating: “It is only the living that can praise God, the dead cannot praise God. There have been divine provisions for the company. Each time we fall God raises us up. INL is a media house with a difference because the altar of God is in this place.” However, he thanked the publisher, Chief James Ibori, for acknowledging the place of God. While thanking the staff for their doggedness in the midst of challenges, appealed that they cooperate more with the management in order to witness positive turnaround. He thereby prophesised that “the best is yet to come.” Ayo Bada, earlier in the programme, said some might ask the rationale behind thanking God in the midst of economic crunch and other adversities, he quoted Psalms 100 verse 4 to 5 as a response to the query. At the testimony session anchored by Victoria Ojugbana, Kayode Ajiboye, Deputy Online Editor, testified of how he was snatched from the claws of death. One of the solemn moments was when a young girl, Pearl sang beautifully ‘Goodness of God’ by Bethel music and Jenn Johnson. Meanwhile, Prophetess Temilola Fakunmoju, Founder of the Light of God Fellowship, charged the atmosphere while leading a session of prayer prophetic declarations. Indeed, the different worship, praise sessions and hymns led by Glory Music Gospel Band alongside INL Choir, also the Bible reading, prayers, and testimonies, indeed, reechoed hope for the 21-year-old newspaper.