NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, JIDE OYEKUNLE Authorities in the nation’s capital have demonstrated that it would not allow any fuel supply disruptions after paying a total N22.7 billion bridging claims to fuel transporters, who had threatened to disrupt supply in protest against unpaid bills that mounted over at least two months. But, there are still concerns over fuel availability as there were queues at the filling stations in Abuja early this week. Export Expansion Grant Has Saved Many Companies From Collapsing–… We Will Push MDAs To Deliver N3trn By Year Ending – Senate Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) Chief Executive Officer Farouk Ahmed confirmed the payment of the bridge claims in Lagos. He said Abuja will pay another N30 billion to the transporters to ensure smooth distribution of fuel products across the country. “Lightering cost” is the cost of using light vessels to move fuel products from mother vessels to depots because mother vessels cannot berth in shallow water depth. “Bridging cost” is the cost of transporting fuel from a depot to other parts of the country to ensure a uniform pump price nationwide. Ahmed disclosed that regulations are being drafted by the Presidential Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources for the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). Ahmed said out of 38 regulations that relate to the NMDPRA, eight drafts have been received for review. “The intention is to review these regulations and invite all the stakeholders to get input because we do not intend to do this alone. POLL ”We need to invite stakeholders to review the regulations before they are put in place because the PIA is here to stay,” Ahmed said. “Another area of concern is the transporters and payment of their bridging funds. Since the last meeting in December, we have paid about N12.7 billion to the transporters and on January 24, we paid another N10 billion. “This week, we are paying another N30 billion to transporters in a bid to give them respite because of the difficulties they are facing with the economic realities.” “We had to do our due diligence to reconcile before we make the payment. The reconciliation is still ongoing and the more we collect, the more we pay, in order to catch up with the backlog we inherited.” Adeyemi Adetunji, Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Group Executive Director, added that the NNPC will play its role of an energy supplier of last resort. Abuja Showbiz: Women Reality Show Debuts In Nigeria Data Protection Now N4bn Worth, Created 7,680 Jobs In 2021 His words: “We will continue to ensure that all petroleum products are available. Thankfully, we went through the last festive season (Christmas/ New Year) with zero queues in the country. “So, we thank all the stakeholders in the industry, we thank Nigerians for ensuring that they were able to access petroleum products at all retail stations and outlets. “NNPC will continue to put in place and supply the market with adequate petroleum products even as we are now NNPC Ltd., a fully commercial company governed by both the PIA and Companies and Allied Matters Act.” Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) Chairman Olumide Adeosun said a lot of key issues raised by the marketers have been addressed. “Some are yet to be addressed and some are works-in-progress. A case in point over work in progress is the plan that we need to have in place a post-announcement of the postponement of the subsidy removal with the PIA,” he said. But from early this week, many filling stations were shut leading to queues by motorists in the few outlets that dispensed Premium Motor Spirit, popularly called petrol, in Abuja, neighbouring states, as well as in parts of Lagos. It was learnt that marketers of PMS were still unsure about moves to halt petrol subsidy, considering the fact that the government had projected in 2021 that it would stop the subsidy regime in February this year. Also, our correspondent gathered that some members of the Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners had discontinued operations in protest against the low freight rate for petrol which they receive from government. Yusuf Othman, the National President, NARTO, told journalists in Abuja on Monday that “our people have parked their trucks and more people are going to park (theirs).” Chief Ukadike Chinedu, the National President, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, also stated that the fear over subsidy withdrawal had been in the minds of both private depot owners and some retailers, leading to product shortage at filling stations. “I’ve explained to you that DPOs are studying the situation around subsidy, since the government has been making various statements on this matter and this has its way of affecting the market,” he explained to journalists. Queues for petrol in filling stations have been appearing and disappearing in Abuja and neighbouring states in the past few weeks, as marketers confirmed that aside from panic buying by motorists, there have been disruptions in PMS supply. Ukadike had told our correspondent, “They (government), said they want to fully deregulate. That statement and similar ones which some ministers made that by 2022 we are going to start full deregulation, made some PDOs decide to hoard or withhold their products. “They (PDOs) are doing this to be able to match up with the cost of petrol when it rises above N300/litre upon full deregulation. Now, this became a bottleneck in terms of the chain of demand and supply. “So people who were taking petroleum products out of Lagos from the PDOs stopped a little bit to be able to look at the market value and their cost of logistics.” But, a Civil Society Group, Concerned Nigerians has slammed the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva and Group Managing Director Nigerian National Petroleum Company ( NNPC ) , Mele Kolo Kyari for allowing the Independent marketers to create artificial scarcity of petroleum products in the country. The group noted that act of hoarding petroleum products is capable of plunging the country into widespread economic chaos. The group stated this in a letter dated February 7, 2022 addressed to the Minister of Petroleum and Group Managing Director NNPC signed by the National Coordinator, Deji Adeyanju on Monday in Abuja. The statement wondered why regulatory bodies have not been living to its expectation and not deemed it fit to prevail on independent marketers by calling them to order. Adeyanju lamented long queues across filing stations in the nation’s capital adding that the marketers always shutdown their gates by 6:00pm.