LAGOS – The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that only deployment of new generation anti-viral drugs would stop coronaviruses or flu variants constantly mutating and reinventing themselves, not vaccines and regular mass testing. The WHO in a broadcast further explained that both measures have faced distribution and public hesitancy issues, while mixed messaging on social distancing and wearing face masks also continues to plague our communities. The United Nations (UN) health body, for the umpteenth time also warned against easing of pandemic restrictions, noting that new variants can flare up anywhere until there is a permanent cure using new generation anti-viral drugs. Group Sensitizes On Covid-19 Vaccination, Drug Abuse In Yobe Shortage Of Dead Bodies Not Helping Anatomy Study In Nigeria… It said, “We should also consider this present-day conundrum against historical parallels such as the Spanish Flu (1918-20) when the initial death toll was relatively contained, lulling a global population already fatigued by the devastation of WW1 into thinking the worst was over.” But that virus then mutated into its most deadly strain, killing 50 million people when Earth’s population numbered less than two billion – it’s now close to eight billion. So, as the COVID storm appears to fade, governments, scientists, and authorities like the WHO face a difficult balancing act: managing the expectations of their people, businesses, and economies, while guarding against another COVID variant, protecting lives, and improving longevity and overall health provision. This is before even starting to look at long-term pandemic damage done to millions of people with other conditions, denied proper care during COVID or left with the varied and insidious effects of Long COVID. Another challenge is that COVID-19 has been just one of several recent viruses with global pandemic potential, including SARS, Indian Flu Variant, Ebola, and Zika Virus. POLL In fact, over 100 potentially dangerous pathogens have infiltrated the human population over the past 15 years and, due to the modern way we live, such risk is unlikely to change. Therefore, as with Climate Change, a long-term pandemic protection plan is vital as the world cannot afford the millions of human lives and trillions of dollars of economic loss inflicted by a more virulent virus or strain – like the final wave of Spanish Flu. Instead, a permanent solution to virus and strain outbreaks is imperative. These must come from accelerated drug development programs in the form of a ‘once and for all’ anti-viral drug or drugs that can block coronaviruses and flu variants from finding a human host in the first place. So, who is working on this challenge, and what advanced technology is needed to create a timely long-term solution, in the same way as penicillin and other antibiotics changed healthcare more than 50 years ago? Established ‘Big Pharma’ names Merck and Pfizer, already have anti-viral products available claiming to do just that, though a major report from Nano Magazine recently suggested these were repurposed drugs from prior programs and required frequent re-dosage: eight times per day for Merck’s drug Molnupiravir and ‘only’ four doses per day for Pfizer’s Paxlovid because it must also be taken with an HIV drug. UNICEF Launches First-Ever U-Report Challenge To Boost COVID-19… Anxiety Disorders But the traditional pharmaceutical industry does tend to concentrate on repurposing, as it’s much cheaper to develop a product that’s already passed clinical trials, rather than going through that process for all-new products. Paul Sheedy, a founding partner at Enabling Tech Capital – an international investment company that supports life sciences and drug delivery – said: “Drug development and delivery has seen record investment since COVID, but the pharma industry’s finance strategy on innovation tends to favour re-purposing old models and candidates. “Fortunately, we are now seeing new methods of computational drug development and intend to support companies using this to deliver solutions for future healthcare and pandemic protection. “These smaller and nimbler drug development companies are using innovative AI and nanoscale platform technologies, which don’t always get the same attention or funding yet are more able to transform how we deal with viruses. “Oral delivery means that they are also easily distributed away from the established and centralised healthcare infrastructure, which the pandemic has shown as inefficient, counter-intuitive, and likely to concentrate infection, all issues that expert critics have voiced for decades but are now laid bare to everyone.”