Federalism as a governing concept is a very recent political and con­stitutional experiment, not old­er than the fortuitous coming together of the previously autonomous American colonial states who formed an alliance to fight for their independence from their then colonial Master, Great Britain. After political independence was secured, the victorious American states wanted to continue the alliance while at the same time preserving their respective autonomy in the management of their domestic affairs while assigning external diplomatic matters and other obviously trans-national issues like cur­rency, postal services and the military to the newly formed central government. Their initial effort was to establish a Confederation through the instrumen­tality of the Articles of the Federation (1777) as was dictated by wartime emer­gency, but they soon found out that the arrangement under the Articles of Con­federation was not able to bring them together enough as was intended with­out the fear of denomination by the new Centre. They finally came up with a supreme Constitution in 1787 which clearly set out the relationship between the Centre and the various states comprising the feder­ation; to ensure that the newly created Federal Government does not become a monster, they carefully vertically de­marcated the powers that are exercisable between the various tiers of government and, in their ingenuity, re-stated in the 10th Amendment to the US Constitution that whatever that is “not [exclusively] delegated to the United States, nor pro­hibited to the States, are reserved to the States or to the People,” which makes it clear that the coming together by the various states to form a “more perfect union” does not amount to actual or implied renunciation of the states erst­while economic and magisterial powers. In other words, within the framework of federalism, the states could still raise funds and defend their territories while the federal government may do so na­tionally and as strictly defined. Fuel Subsidy: Good Politics Make Feedback Your Best Friend! Accordingly, every state of the Union must have its own Police force, a Leg­islature, a Judiciary capped by a state Supreme Court, a state Constitution and above all, a state Police force. I should point out at this juncture that Nigeria is about the only federation where peo­ple are still demanding for those basic features of a federalism. Yet, we ab­sent-mindedly parrot the slogan: “long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria!” when indeed we have no idea of its polit­ical and territorial significations. The haphazard ways the country evolved out of the colonial process has a lot to do with the lingering confusion about federalism in the country. So far, to our state governors, federalism means periodically going to Abuja to collect­ed hand-outs from the centre instead of building strong economies within their respective states. Do I need to tell them that California, one of the states in America, is ranked as the sixth big­gest economy in the entire world? When you accept to be known and addressed as “your excellency,” you must also accept the concomitant responsibility to be a sovereign entrepreneur by working day and night to grow your state’s economy. The so-called “amalgamation” of 1914 which supposedly brought various parts of the colonial territories together for their own colonial administrative con­venience did not erase the fundamental differences existing within these ter­ritories. The British government may have initially created the regions com­prising the federation, namely, Western, Northern and Eastern regions but they did not create the various nationalities and their various governments that were in those places before their arrival and to the extent that the regions broadly corresponded to those geographically related groups of nationalities, cultures and languages, many thought that they actually meant to return some degree of autonomy to those various nationalities through federalism. Unfortunately, matters became a lot more complicated for Nigeria’s feder­alism when the military government started creating and proliferating states like amoeba. People became used to the idea of federating units being the prod­uct of deliberate decisions of the fed­eral government to carve our pieces of lands from the existing states hence the “state creation” bogey. The key feature of a true federation is the “coming to­gether” (federating) and not arbitrary partitioning as we have come to under­stand it in Nigeria. It is interesting to note that agitations for additional states in the country is basically based on this fundamental mistake of thinking that the federal government can and should be creating states, something that is completely at variance with the logic of federalism. A true federation has, at least, two tiers of government carrying vary­ing responsibilities of government as textually allocated to them. There are very few duties of government which is common to all levels of government in a federation one of them is the effective policing of their various jurisdictions. Another is revenue generation or wealth creation. Every level of government must generate enough income for its own development and respectability. To ensure that there is a balance and equi­ty, each level of government is allocat­ed certain areas of exclusive economic activities. The state governments being territorial entities have the privileges of harnessing the economic resources that are peculiar to their territories; the federal government collects income taxes, personal and corporate while the State governments collect consumption taxes like VAT and, finally, the city or local government collect property taxes and local fines. POLL Every tier of federation’s government makes its own law for the peace and good government within its domain. And as we have said here in the past, “It does not make sense for one level of government to be making laws with the expectation that another level or other levels of gov­ernment would enforce them. Yes, there are overlaps but it is simply not going to work and, so far, it has not been working in Nigeria, because the power to make laws ought to be organically cotermi­nous with the means, legal and institu­tional, to enforce them. “The calls for states police are not predicated on the need to attain systemic efficiency alone but also as a governmen­tal fulfilment of very strong doctrinal requirements concerning federalism, as each section of the country ought to be constitutionally empowered to redress the law enforcement challenges that are peculiar to their environments…Every tier of government within the federa­tion must be equipped with a virile po­lice force in order for them to function properly. The commonsensical principle here is that whoever makes laws should be able to enforce them because he alone knows the ills against which the legis­lations were enacted to cure in the first place and also how best to go about it. That is why even universities in federal societies elsewhere that are chartered to make Statutes for their domestic reg­ulation and governance through their respective Senates are permitted to op­erate campus police services. All that is required is that the national police force, being the premier police institution with wider reach, reserves some rights to set standards for the states and other police services not as usurpers of their juris­dictions, but intervention in the form of technical assistance and supporting guidelines only. Nigeria cannot be said to be a true federation unless the nation’s governing instruments, including police institutions, are federalised.” “True Federalism”, properly consid­ered, exists only within a political cum territorial arrangement that is struc­tured in such a balanced way that every tier of government would have the quan­tum of resources, political, economic and magisterial, that are required for maintaining law and order within their domains. That is what federalism de­mands. NB: This is a restatement of earlier articles on the need to have State Police establishment in the Federation