*As PIND Foundation Holds its Annual Capacity Building For Warri MSP Stakeholders Promises Interventions, For Concerned Communities ASABA – In line with its track records of promoting Niger-Delta Development and Peace-Building initiative, Foundation For Partnership Initiatives In The Niger-Delta (PIND Foundation), a non-profit foundation that promotes peace and equitable economic growth, has continued to ensure peace and security amongst the Ijaws, Itsekiri ethnic Nationalities of Delta State and locally domesticate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs, in partnership with a group, under the aegis of WARRI MULTI-STAKEHOLDERS PLATFORM, a workshop supported by PIND as part of the organization’s efforts in Peace-Building initiative amongst Ijaw and Itsekiri ethnic groups in Delta State. The media learnt this from High Chief Lawal Africas, the Network Coordinator, Partners For Peace in the Niger Delta, and the Facilitator, Warri-MSP, and other critical stakeholders today being on Tuesday, 22nd February, 2022 at Villa Toscana Hotels, Asaba, Delta State capital during a three days capacity building Training Workshop/retreats as groups highlighted the importance of Peace-Building in enhancing development. Delta Govt To Go Tough On Illegal Community Associations Ex-Perm Sec, King A.J Turner Emerges New Paramount Ruler Of… Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP is a Peace-Building platform with diverse stakeholders promoting peaceful co-existence amongst the Ijaws and Itsekiris in the three (3) Warri LGAs of Delta State. PIND is a Foundation For Partnership In The Niger-Delta, a Nigerian non-Profit organization established to promote economic development and peace-building in the Niger-Delta Region through partnership and facilitation of programs delivery through capacity building, advocacy, communications, Gender and social Inclusion. The annual capacity building of Warri Multi-Stakeholders, Platform (MSP) started with a lecture by High Chief Lawal Africas, the Coordinator, Partners of Peace Network In The Niger-Delta, and Facilitator, Warri-MSP highlighted the significance of the three days capacity building Workshop/retreats in Asaba, Delta State capital for Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP to towards promoting peaceful co-existence amongst the Ijaw and Itsekiri ethnic groups in Delta State. The Warri MSP Training Consultant, Dr. Austin Onuoha, who spoke on the overall objectives of the program that anchored on peaceful co-existence between Ijaws and Itsekiris, to create an enabling environment for the sustenance of peace and development amongst the two ethnic groups, while he urged the stakeholders to adopt models capable of mitigating conflicts in their various Communities to overcome the challenges Leadership, Governance, and accountability. Speaking further at the event is the Peace-Building Manager, PIND Foundation, Dr. David Udofia who stated that the aim of this year 2022 Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP capacity building workshop is retreat to re-strategize more on ways to sustain the existing peace amongst the two ethnic Nationalities andreview efforts of Community Stakeholders. PIND Foundation’s explores on Peace-Building approaches towards the promotion of peace and unity among the Ijaws and Itsekiris of Delta State. The Co-Chairman Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP, Dr. Jeffery Wilkie who commended PIND Foundation for the Initiative and partnership while he stated the essence of the workshop is strengthen the belief that Ijaws and Itsekiris can dialogue and live together . He also stated that MSP members are out to promote peaceful co-existence amongst the two ethnic groups in the riverine communities. Also to ensure that they shift from the old order of violence to maintain peace and unity for Sustainable Development in the area. POLL Other Members of MSP Forum who spoke to newsmen during the program, MSP Secretary- General, Hon. Eboh Okpako Elvis, MSP Member, Comrade Chief Sheriff MULADE harped on the need for the youths to join hand with the group, community leaders, critical stakeholders and all levels of Government towards the sustenance of peace amongst the two ethnic groups. Some selected representives of Ijaw and Itsekiri Communities which included amongst others are: Comrade Esther David, Comrade Shedrack Onitsha Ebikeme, Hon. Okpoye Spencer, Chief Sylvester Tiebebedigha, MSP Welfare Officer, Princess Henry Temisanren, Joshua Ghereje, who were observers and Participants also joined forces with members of MSP Forum to suggest ways to mitigate conflicts using approaches which included amongst others: Promotion of good interactions, Inter-marriages, athletic competitions, joint Youth Council, Town Hall meetings, Avoidance of poor leadership, use of divide and rule tactics by Multi-National Companies, Workshops, Economic empowerment and interventions, Community stakeholders engagement, mini-trainings and many others.