Innocent Oweh ; Francis Onoiribholo Abuja / Benin – There are indications that the month-long strike embarked by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has unsettled the Federal Government, as the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, said the development came as a surprise to him. He said it’s more worrisome when there were ongoing renegotiations on the demands raised by ASUU, insisting that government was not entirely culpable in the issues that prompted the latest strike. Poor Attention To Youth Development Breeds Violence, Says… ICPC Secures Conviction Of Former Local Govt Chairman According to Adamu, despite several negotiations between ASUU and the Federal Government, both parties failed to reach a truce, then the fault can no longer be ascribed to the government alone. His reactions came following questions from State House correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. According to Adamu, who said that ASUU’s decision came abruptly amid ongoing negotiations, “ASUU, unfortunately, they have gone on strike and I am looking for them because all the issues are being addressed. “The last thing that happened was that our committee looked at their demands but there are renegotiation’s going on. They submitted a draft agreement which the ministry is looking at.” Speaking of ASUU’s draft agreement, he said, “A committee is looking at it. Immediately it finishes, the government is meant to announce what it had accepted. Then suddenly, I heard them going on strike.” On allegations from ASUU about his absence from meetings, he said, “ASUU will never say that. I always call the meeting myself. POLL The meetings I didn’t attend were those that happened when I was in hospital in Germany. “We want a peaceful resolution. The Federal Government is ready to meet them on all issues they have raised and if there are so many meetings and the gap is not closing, then I think it’s not the fault of the government. “There is a solution to this. The negotiations are the solution and that is why I have said that I am surprised that ASUU has gone on strike.” Asked if the government can reach an agreement with ASUU before the end of the 30-day strike, Adamu said, “I can’t give you time. I am ready to reach an agreement with ASUU now but since I’m not the only one, I can’t give you time, but certainly we are going to reach an agreement very soon.” Commenting on disparity in cut-off marks for common entrance examinations across various parts of the country, the minister noted that the low cut-off marks in the North are meant to comply with the requirements of the Federal Character Commission. “I have nothing to say on that. I am not aware of any difference unless it is meant to satisfy the requirements of federal character. I think federal character is required for the nation and it is accepted. There is nothing we can do about that. There would come a time when it would not be necessary.” Recall that the battle of wits between ASUU and the Federal Government is hinged on the revitalisation of public universities, earned academic allowances, University Transparency Accountability Solution (UTAS), promotion arrears, implementation of the renegotiated 2009 ASUU-FGN agreement and discrepancies in the implementation of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). How Climate Change Affects Nigeria’s Economy, Security – Akpabio NYSC Orders 33 Corps Members To Repeat Service Year Over… While ASUU has consistently criticised the government of breaching previous negotiations and agreements, the latter has accused ASUU of forcing it to enter into such pact under duress. UNIBEN Students Protest, Barricade Benin-Ore Road Meanwhile, students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) on Wednesday barricaded the ever-busy Benin-Ore-Sagamu Road to protest the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). The students in their numbers were seen at the Ugbowo campus of UNIBEN’s entrance, chanting slogans with placards reading ‘Education is our right’, “5 years course has turned to 7 years’, ‘FG settle ASUU, ‘Enough is Enough’, among others. The students while expressing their frustration appealed to the Federal Government to heed ASUU’s demands. Some students turned the highway into a football field, playing in sets while the students’ leaders were sharing bottles of water, soft drink, pies and doughnuts to the demonstrators for refreshment. The protest caused gridlock on the highway for hours, forcing many motorists to avoid the route while those going into Edo capital had to make a detour. Leading the protest, the President of the Students Union Government (SUG) of the institution, Foster Amadin, lamented that the students were on the streets because they were tired of perennial strikes by ASUU. “We came to the street to say we are tired. We hereby express our grievances to the Federal Government, to the state government and whoever cares to listen. We say we are tired. “We want to graduate. For a programme that is supposed to run for four years, we are spending five years and even more years. We don’t want it anymore.” Amadin said all they want is to return to classes and graduate from the institution. “Let the Federal Government see to the demands of ASUU and let ASUU also consider the Federal Government’s position. “All we want is to go back to our classes. I want to graduate; I want to leave the school. I am tired and that is our grievance,” he said. Ngige Berates NANS For Protesting At His Ministry Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment, on Wednesday berated the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) for staging a protest in his ministry over the ASUU strike. Ngige described as “inflammatory and misguided”, the comment credited to the student’s body, which threatened to mobilise students to disrupt the activities of the ministry. The students’ body led by its president, Sunday Asefon, had on Monday demonstrated against pronouncement made by ASUU leaders that they would embark on a onemonth strike to press home their demands from the Federal Government. Ngige, while reacting to the demonstration in a statement issued by the ministry’s spokesman, Charles Akpan, said the students lack enough information about his commitment to return stability and excellence back to the universities. “Indeed his (Ngige) untiring efforts to enthrone a peaceful national industrial milieu, it is imperative we make salient clarifications on the misinformation and misrepresentation on what has become an unending ritual of strike by ASUU vis a vis the ongoing action. “The reason is to carry along, all genuinely concerned Nigerian students and parents on the commitment of the Buhari administration to resolve age-long challenges besetting the university system as well as apprise them of the steps being taken by the Minister of Labour and Employment in discharging his responsibilities”, the statement noted. The minister argued that his ministry is not the employer of members of academic staff in any tertiary institution, saying it only serves as the conciliator of disputes between workers and their employers in various ministries. He said, “First is to note that university lecturers who operate under a union of workers, the ASUU affiliated to the NLC are employees of the universities being overseen on behalf of the Federal Government by the National Universities Commission, a parastatal under the Ministry of Education. “The Federal Ministry of Education being in charge of everything education is hence the employers of all workers in the education sector including the academic and non-academic staff of federal universities. The Ministry of Labour for clarity, is the conciliator of disputes between workers and their employers in various ministries, in this case, ASUU and the Ministry of Education.” He further stated, “It is thus completely false that the Minister of Labour and Employment hasn’t paid attention to monitoring the implementation of the December 2020 ASUU/ FG Memorandum of Action. “Apart from the Federal Ministry of Education, other ministries, departments and agencies involved in the agreement include the National Universities Commission, Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget & National Planning, Budget Office of the Federation, Office of the Accountant General of the Federation and National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). “Though not assigned to it in the MoA, the Minister of Labour and Employment has been monitoring the implementation of the MoA to ensure compliance.” Ngige also criticised ASUU for not notifying the ministry before it declared a strike, saying the ministry never received any official communication from the union on any impending strike as required by labour laws.