ABUJA – The Managing Director of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, has expressed delight on the several interventions of the Federal Government which have led to the restoration of 24-hours power supply to the Calabar Free Trade Zone after 20 years of epileptic power supply Adesugba, also the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, made the remarks when Chief Saleh Nabib, Chairman, Board of the Economic Zones Association paid him a courtesy visit. He said the restoration of the 24-hours power supply in the zone occurred while the 25 megawatts power upscaling contract of the place awarded by the Federal Government was yet to be completed. Buhari Appoints Mohammed Bello-Koko As Substantive NPA Managing… Maritime Security: UN Commends Nigeria For Its Pioneering… He, therefore, explained that the feat largely depended on the Authority’s synergy with the PortHarcourt Electricity Distribution Company to ensure the unlocking of the true values of the Zone to contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Product more sustainably. “We are pleased to announce that 24-hours power supply is now restored in the Calabar Free Trade Zone. “The Authority is indeed grateful to the Federal Goovernment’s numerous interventions in this regard and to the Calabar Electricity Distribution Company (CEDC) that now see reasons why the zone should have uninterrupted power supply. “This development will of course lead to unlocking the value of investments and production activity in the zone,’’ Adesugba said. The NEPZA Managing Director also expressed satisfaction on President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment and sustained investment toward the restoration of the country’s public free trade zones, adding that work to increase power supply in the Calabar and Kano Free Trade Zones was ongoing. POLL Chief Saleh Nabib, Chairman, Board of the Economic Zones Association, Nabib, said over 20 years of epileptic power situation in the zone stunted the growth of investments within the enclave, adding that only stable electricity in the Zone could make the place attractive. “Our members operating in that Zone are now basking in this development and we only hope that this will be sustained. “The new NEPZA management under Prof. Adesoji Adesugba has been magical in providing solutions to some of the teething challenges in Zones operation in the country,’’ Nabib said.