Representative Madison Cawthorn said that if the legal case against his re-election bid succeeds then ex-President Donald Trump has no chance of winning the 2024 election. In an interview with Trump ally Steve Bannon, the North Carolina Republican described the challenge facing his candidacy in this year’s midterms, as he faces scrutiny over his actions on the day of the U.S. Capitol riots. A team of lawyers has invoked Section 3 of the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which bars from public office anyone who has taken the oath to support the country’s founding document and then “engaged in insurrection.” Libyan Parliament Appoints New Prime Minister We Are Monitoring Crisis Situation In Southeast – ICRC Cawthorn, one of the most right-wing members of Congress, told “War Room” that the case was “probably going to go to the North Carolina Supreme Court,” which he called “a very liberal haven for the Democrats—to try and keep me off the ballot.” “This is going down a very dangerous path,” Cawthorn told Real America’s Voice. “We have filed a counter punch lawsuit” that he said he was confident he could win and “destroy this narrative.” Last week, Cawthorn filed an attempt to stop the State Board of Elections from examining whether to remove him from the ballot. “I don’t think they are just after me, obviously if they are able to keep me off the ballot because of this, Donald Trump will never be able to be president again because he won’t be able to win North Carolina,” Cawthorn said. Ron Fein, the legal director for Free Speech for People, which is helping challenge Cawthorn’s candidacy, told NPR there was “reliable reporting” the lawmaker and his team “were communicating with the planners ahead of Jan. 6 and helped to plan some of these events.” POLL Cawthorn, 26, who has previously described the legal challenge against him as “asinine” and “ridiculous,” became the youngest member of Congress when he was elected in 2020 and he will be running again in the 13th District under the state’s newly approved map. SOURCE: NEWSWEEK