ABUJA  – The Industrial Training Fund (ITF), has stated that as part of its giant strides in job creation and economic stimulus, its Model Skills Training Center, MSTC, has assembling ITF Mobile phones and plans are on the way to mass produce for the market and drive innovation in Nigeria. The Fund made this disclosure when it, in collaboration with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) agreed to commence three month training for 100 youths on eight vocational skills. Sir. Joseph Ari, Director General, Industrial Training Fund, while speaking at the kick -off ceremony of ITF/NCDMB collaborations for the Implementation of Eight Vocational Skills Training Programmes in Abuja earlier in the week,said the programme emerged when NCDMB delegation visited the ITF model skills training centre recently. Don’t Blame Minister For Abuja LG Council Delayed Allocation–… Small Holder Farmers Warn Of Food Crisis In Nation’s Capital According to Ari, the training was important in driving economic growth through skills acquisition. He explained that during the first phase of the Programme, 254 unemployed youths were trained and empowered with startup kits. The Director General, who was represented by Mrs. Yinka Shodunke, Head Corporate Planning at ITF, further explained that, “Through the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the Fund, some of the graduands are today gainfully employed or are entrepreneurs that are even employing other people. He said: “If Nigerians are equipped with the necessary skills, they will be better disposed and well placed to take advantage of numerous policies of the Federal Government designed to boost economy and improve the standard of living of Nigerians. “The MSTC have achieved some giant strides and so far ensured the assembling of ITF Mobile phone by the Centre with plans on the way to mass produce for the market and drive innovation in Nigeria,” POLL The ITF boss further urged the trainees of this phase of the programme to take golden opportunity of the three months training so that by the end of the period, they would have acquired the necessary skills to be employable and contribute meaningfully to the economy. Engr. Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board, also in his submissions, noted that the training is second in the series, as the last one which took place last year had 254 youths trained and equipped with the necessary skills needed to improve their capacity. The ES who, was represented by Dr. Ama Ikuru, the General Manager Capacity Building of NCDMB, said it is worthy of note that the training has yielded positive results as over 60% of beneficiaries from the last phase are now entrepreneurs. He said the training was designed for beneficiaries to succeed as an entrepreneur which is why most of the emphasis is on skills acquisition. “Each year the Board trains over 2,000 Nigerians in different training skills either through direct interventions or through collaborations and as of 2021, the number has moved to 3,000 and more, is hoped to be done in 2022. Abuja Pays N22.7bn Claims To Forestall Fuel Supply Disruption Export Expansion Grant Has Saved Many Companies From Collapsing–… “The Human Capacity Training programme has been tailored to meet specific demands of required skills in the country and it is aimed at complementing Federal Government’s efforts in job creation. The eighth vocational training skills programmes include Building Technology, Industrial automation and mechatronics, residential air conditioning and refrigerating maintenance, mechanical services and maintenance. Others are Electric/Electronics technology, mobile phone repairs and trouble shooting and Information/Communication Technology.