ABUJA – If there is a phrase that best describes the state of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with just five days to the proposed February 26 National Convention of the party, it will be a “house ripped apart by ambition, rules by confusion, and in total disarray. Hardly does any stakeholder worth his calling in the party admit knowing what is going on; whether the convention is going or is shifted. Disillusionment is riding the crest among Stakeholders. Multiple sources claim that Governor Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) is afraid to approach the presidency in the direction to proceed. APC Media Officer Replies Buni’s Critics On National… JUST IN: APC Fixes National Convention For February 25th Recall that it was President Mohammadu Buhari that reportedly gave tacit approval for the convention to go ahead on February 26 before it was endorsed by the APC governors. Following that development, the party issued a guideline and timetable leading to the event, including the sale of forms, and constitution of subcommittees.However, events began to unfold suggesting the APC Caretaker Committee has entirely a different agenda. An angry stakeholder who expressed his disappointment with the general state of affairs of the party last night alleged that the CECPC has only existed to do the bidding of its Chairman. “I have severally told you that the CECPC is Buni and Buni is the CECPC. Whatever is happening, whether the convention will hold or not would be determined by him and will fit perfectly with his agenda”. He said many Stakeholders in now in the dark about anything that happening in the party as hardly anyone knows what is going on. POLL Fielding reporters question at the weekend, Salihu Mohd Lukman former Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) described the Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker Committee as a Franciscan monster that has come to destroy APC. According to him, all the progress made by the party in building Consensus and unity has been eroded. He however expressed confidence that the new APC NWC that will emerge on February 26 will restore the hope of stakeholders and Nigerians in the leadership of the party. Another source claimed that having failed to present a justifiable reason why the arrangement for the convention has stagnated, the CECPC cannot approach the presidency as it were. Our sister publication had at the weekend reported that the ambition of individuals within the party, CECPC and among the Governors have created a high level of distrust among the leaders further eating into the crack that started from the days of the legacy parties, CPC, ACN, ANPP, and others.