Manchester United interim boss Ralf Rangnick says the decision to keep Jesse Lingard at Old Trafford was partially driven by Mason Greenwood’s current unavailability. Greenwood, 20, has been released on bail following his arrest on Sunday. He will not train or play for the club until further notice. Adebomehin Appointed As Substantive SGoF DELTA: Police Nab 25 Cultists, Burst Drug Cartel Rangnick said Lingard had been given a couple of days off “to clear his head” and would miss Friday’s FA Cup fourth round tie with Middlesbrough. Lingard had hoped to leave the club in January and Newcastle United and West Ham were interested in signing him on deadline day. In the end, he did not get the move he wanted and Rangnick said the Greenwood situation was part of the reason why. “Three weeks ago Jesse didn’t want to leave and then he changed his mind,” said Rangnick. “I said at the time, if he finds a club and a solution that suits us, we would allow him to leave. With the developments in the last couple of days, things changed. POLL “On Monday afternoon, the board said they wanted him to stay. We are without a player who has played regularly and also we couldn’t get an agreement for any other club.” Greenwood was arrested on suspicion of raping a woman and on suspicion of assault on Sunday following allegations on social media. He was then further arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and making threats to kill on Tuesday. Rangnick said the Greenwood matter had been a “topic” within his squad but they had trained well this week. “They are all human beings and up to the [international] break, Mason was part of the group,” added the German. Hijab Crisis: AbdulRazaq Shuts Down School In Offa Throw PDP Presidential Ticket Open For All Zones, Forum Tells… Rangnick also confirmed striker Edinson Cavani would miss the Middlesbrough game after being granted some extended time in Uruguay following their recent World Cup qualifiers. However, midfielder Paul Pogba is set for a comeback after recovering from a groin injury that has kept him out since the beginning of November. “Paul will be part of the group,” said Rangnick. “He might even start.”