AWKA – Anambra State Governor-Elect Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo will set example in patronizing locally made products by attending his inauguration in “made in Anambra shoes”. His spokesman, Joe Anatune said such will set the standard of protecting Anambra local markets and winning the minds of  consumers. In a statement in Awka,  Anatune said: “this is the conceptual framework of Cee Cee Soludo’s Buy and Use Made-in-Anambra product model.” APC Chieftain Wants Election Dates Permanent In Nation’s… Nwafor-Orizu Emerges PDP Chairman In Anambra “Wherever he goes, he sets the  example by wearing the beautiful, stylist, comfortable and durable shoes made in Ogbunike in Oyi Local Government, Anambra State, South East Nigeria. “Definitely, he will go to his inauguration on March 17, 2022 with the made-in-Ogbunike shoes. Oh yes, you can take that statement to the bank”. According to him, Soludo is igniting the battle for the Ogbunike shoemakers in order to carve a good slice of the global footwear market currently put at 565.5 Billion US dollars. He said that even though footwear market is dominated by Italian, Japanese, Spainard and American shoemakers,  current global trend for customization has created openings for Ogbunike shoemakers for market penetration, especially with Soludo leading the battle for the minds of consumers. After all, Anatune continued, Mr. Clem Chukwuka, the Managing Director of Anambra State Small Business Agency that  oversees the state-of-the-art facilities for shoemaking in Ogbunike has said that his machines are the same like the ones Italian shoemakers use. POLL He quoted Chukwuka as confirming that his people have been exposed to global best practices in the industry, adding: “Clem is proud that his people make “damn good shoes” fit for the consumers who now see shoes beyond their protective functions but as  expressions of personal identity”. With Soludo’s stamp on the shoes, Anatune argued, the Ogbunike shoe manufacturers will fiercely and boldly build many winning brands from their machines. He added: “And with Soludo as an informal Chief Marketing Officer by useage, the Ogbunike, Anambra-made shoes could define the reputation of Anambra as a place where quality shoes come from. “The market is huge and projected globally to grow at 24% in the next five years. The rub- offs of this on other Anambra product offerings can only be imagined”, Anatune concluded.