P/HARCOURT – A youth group, youths and environmental advocacy center, YEAC, has called on the President Muhammadu Buhari to make haste on the issuance of licenses to modular refinery Operators to alleviate the sufferings of the Niger Delta youths. Comrade Fyneface Dumnamene, Executive Director of YEAC, who is also the National Facilitator of Project with Artisanal Crude Oil Refiners (PACOR) for Modular Refineries in the Niger Delta as approved and incorporated by Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, said this was the best way of saving the environment from degradation and ameliorating poverty in the region. Following the pronouncement on Modular Refinery for youths involved in artisanal crude oil refining in the Niger Delta through Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in 2017 during his tour of the region said: “we have been sensitizing and training youths involved in artisanal crude oil refining to stop pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft and environmental pollution among others in the Niger Delta”. How To Track Projects, Money Meant To Develop Niger Delta… Indorama Fertilizer Donates 380,000 Notebooks To Schools In… In a letter to President Buhari at the occasion of establishment of multipurpose cooperative societies in Bayelsa, Dumnamene said: “we commenced the process of registering the artisanal refiners for the formation of Co-operative Societies for Modular refineries and we were glad when on January 10, 2020 during your inauguration of National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) laboratory in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State represented by the Minister of State for Environment, Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor, you directed that artisanal crude oil refiners are registered and formed into Co-operative Societies for Modular Refinery Licenses. “The Cooperative Societies indurated today as you directed are; Bayelsa West Modular Refinery Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society Ltd, Bayelsa Central Modular Refinery Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society Ltd and West East Modular Refinery Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society Ltd”. According to the YEAC Director, these are the authentic platforms of the real artisanal crude oil refiners who have stopped and embraced federal government’s policy on Modular Refineries as alternative means of livelihood in Bayelsa State. “In the days ahead, we will inaugurate and also present to you, Modular Refinery Co-operative Societies in other Niger Delta States. While thanking government for approving the group’s recommendation for the establishment of 3 Modular Refineries in each Niger Delta States which the Buhari government has now proposed 18 Licenses for Bayelsa, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers, Delta, Cross River and Edo States, “it is our recommendation also that you speed-up the process and also kindly consider and establish a Presidential Artisanal Crude Oil Refining Development Initiative (PACORDI) for artisanal crude oil refiners in the Niger Delta, similar to the “Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMI)” in parts of the North and Western Nigeria. POLL “We look forward to having you issue Modular Refinery Licenses to these Co-operative Societies so that they do not cite Government unseriousness and return to the creeks to cause more damage to oil facilities and our fragile environment”. On its part as an organization, Dumnamene said : “we will continue partnering with your government to address this and related issues in the Niger Delta and strengthen our facilitation of international development partners to co-fund the Modular Refinery projects for artisanal crude oil refiners in the Niger Delta”, he said.