Rev. Idy James is the Congregational Pastor of United Evangelical Church (Founded as Qua Iboe Church) Surulere, Lagos. He shares his views on the Electoral Amendment Bill yet-to-be signed into law, the growing concern over ritual killings, internet fraud and hardship. CHINYERE ABIAZIEM brings the excerpts: Congratulations on your second term in ministerial office. What should be expected this time? By the grace of God we are grateful unto God who has made it possible that we are able to come in again for the second tenure. In the first term God really helped us that a lot of things came on board and we are believing that God will do more for us and that is why as we are beginning the second term God Has given us a word, which is ‘Moving from glory to glory’ and no matter what we were able to achieve in the first term we are moving from glory to glory again. Indeed we are looking forward to seeing our church move with divine speed from glory to glory and touch lives more and more. By the grace of God, when we sit back and begin to reflect what God Has done in the first tenure we look forward to seeing Him do more things even in the second tenure, so that is our hope that our church will progress more in this second term. Adeboye Mark’s 80th Birthday With Donation Of Dialysis… RCCG Prince Of Peace Mega Parish Boosts Community It is no news that the economy of the nation is dwindling with youths going into ritual killings and internet fraud. As a servant of God do you foresee any end to these as biblical accounts make known that when there were issues in the nation; the leaders go to the ministers of God for solutions… Indeed there is hunger everywhere and some of our youths have taken to internet fraud and ritual killings. By the grace of God as a servant of God all hope is not lost, God is still in control as He spoke to us in the service and even now we believe that no matter the ugly situation in the nation, God Has the power to turn things around for our good. That is why we need to keep praying and with the prayers of the believers God will surely have mercy on us as a nation. In the days of Ezekiel there were issues in the land and God was looking for just one person that would stand in the gap and unfortunately he found nobody but in this generation many people are there who are standing in the gap as believers in the Lord. We have the hope that as we pray unto God, He knows how to open the floodgates of heaven, He knows what to do to take us to another level by the grace of God. I must stress that all hope is not lost because God is truly in charge of the situation. There have been outcries on the way the affair of this country is being managed by the ruling class, does this bother you? By the grace of God, I still believe that there is room for improvement as the managers of the nation’s affair can still do better. No matter what they have been able to do thus far, as far as our nation is concerned we need more of that impactful leadership so that the leaders that God has brought to us will have that vision to ensure that by the grace of God they lead us aright. There is a need for them to have the love of the people at heart and above all they should have the fear of God. Preparations are on for the general elections, as the date of the presidential election has been fixed, while the National Assembly (NASS) is waiting for the Electoral Amendment Act of 2021 to be signed into law by the President. How do you view this? POLL As learnt the President has sent the Electoral Act back to the NASS after making his observation, from what we have heard, once what he noted has been taken care of he will sign; so I am hopeful he will sign this time around as NASS sends it back to him. What do you think would be the fate of the bill if the President does not sign? I want to believe that he will not refuse to give his consent in view of the fact that he has promised this country that he would improve on democratic development in the country. So, I believe that he would sign it but if he does not sign, Nigeria has to plead with him that as our President he should keep to his word and ensure that he signs the Electoral Bill. There are observations on the continuous recycling of political office holders in Nigeria, do you see this as being healthy to the growth of democracy in the nation? It is very unfortunate that from my childhood days, I do hear that; ‘the youths are the leaders of tomorrow’, but we now see that the old people that have been there in the system have refused to give the youths the platform for them to become the leaders of tomorrow. That tomorrow they have been shouting all these while in the past is now today. So, there should be a stop to the issue of recycling political leaders or office holders. Fresh hands should be given the opportunity to come into leadership and also display what they have by the grace of God and I believe that when that is done Nigeria and Nigerians will be taken to greater heights. Soul Winning Is A Great Task (III) Wisdom: Most Desirable Thing Do you see that happening ahead of 2023? I want to believe that they will give that opportunity since they have signed into law the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ bill. In view of this, they should allow these young people to come in and let us be hopeful that with our prayers they will create such a platform for these young ones to come to the platform of leadership. The two ruling parties, APC and PDP seem to be the ones that have their aspirants declared… As far as I am concerned it does not matter the party, it has to do with the people themselves because it is the same group of people from this party to the other, but if these people have the fear of God then the word of God will come into play; when the righteous is on the throne the people rejoice. We are looking forward to whoever that will come up to have the fear of God and the love of the people at heart. Without doubt, with these in such a person would be able to do well as a leader. What should be the place of the church in times like these? The place of the church in times like these is to pray fervently because God has given us the responsibility to pray for our leaders. If you do not pray for them, whatever decision that they make will also affect the church. We have to pray for them and also encourage our members to show interest in politics, because if they are not there it will not all go well for us. Remember the incident that has to do with the death of Jesus, by the time he died there were people who were in government who played one role or the other such as Joseph of Arimathea who handed over his tomb for Jesus to be buried, he was in government also. When Christians are in government they will affect the life of the church positively. I believe with that, governance will now have a new face completely as the people will rejoice that God fearing people are in the position of authority.