Agricultural performance in Nigeria has been said to be  greatly impaired by the inadequacy of rural infrastructure despite the expanse of uncultivated land available in the rural areas. Oluwaseyi Adepoju, Trade Advisor – Lead, Agriculture & Mining United Kingdom,  Department of International Trade, stated this while delivering a paper titled; ‘Attracting Investments and Market Information’ at a session  organised by the Institute of Agribusiness Management of Nigeria (IAMN), Lagos state chapter. While giving his recommendation, he said basic facilities such as access to good road networks, electricity, and portable water are essential to rural agriculture. Palm Oil Investment Opportunities In Nigeria: Making 100% Return… Nigeria Set To Showcase Huge Potential In Cashew As It Host ACA… “To foster full economic participation, there is need to provide infrastructure to create an enabling environment for agricultural undertakings in the rural areas. “In terms of commercialisation of agricultural produce, good road network will improve market linkages for rural farmers, boost downstream activities in the agricultural sector and ease the process of getting products to the final consumers. He added that modern storage and processing facilities will enhance the commercialization of products and reduce post-harvest losses. “In addition to the general economic factors that impact on agri-businesses, limited access to land is a constraint that cuts across all states in Nigeria. Adepoju stated that simplifying the process of property acquisition and title ownership will motivate prospective investors and entrepreneurs POLL He said that government should prioritise the local production of agricultural machinery, agricultural input, and mechanised processing/storage technologies through strategic partnerships with manufacturers of agricultural support technologies. He added that transfer of technology will significantly lower the rate of importation of agricultural input and boost local content development. Speaking further he said huge capital requirement for agricultural investments is a major disincentive for local investors. “In view of this, the CBN is to be commended for its effort to enhance access to finance to enable all stakeholders, FMARD, the private sector, agribusiness investors, states, LGAs fulfil their roles optimally. “Proper management of allocated funds will improve the efficiency of institutional agencies, encourage the formation of new enterprises across the agricultural value chain and encourage healthy competition within the sector. FG Initiates Measures To Boost Cocoa Production In Nigeria FG To Rebuild Agric Value Chain Processing Centres In Nasarawa “Although a number of foreign investors have benefited from available incentives or partnered with the government on agricultural initiatives, these incentives are not easily accessible to SMEs unable to meet the requirements for eligibility. “To this end, incentives should be made easily obtainable to agricultural and agro-allied businesses, irrespective of the scale of operations, to open up the sector for increased participation. Indigenous agricultural enterprises, especially SMEs, should be given priority in the disbursement of financial aid. “Over the years, the pattern of performance in agricultural production has been uneven, with some states performing better than others. Thus, direct engagement with the respective local governments will improve each state’s performance in the agribusiness space. To maintain quality assurance and ensure local agro-products can compete favorably in the export market, he said relevant authorities should monitor the upstream and downstream activities in the agricultural industry to ensure production and processing across the agribusiness value chains are compliant with regulatory standards. He added that effective implementation of these recommendations will assist Nigeria in achieving the full potential of the agricultural sector and pave the way to becoming Africa’s agricultural powerhouse. Seyi Ifelaja, Chairman, IAMN Lagos state Chapter, said the institute has set out for the year to put things in perspective in such a way that members of the institute can make informed decision in their various agribusiness ventures and enterprise so as to afford them to work at a position of advantage.