The Football Association confirmed England will not compete in fixtures against Russia as they condemned the “atrocities” being committed in Ukraine by Vladimir Putin. Conflict has raged in Eastern Europe since Putin ordered his troops into Ukraine on Thursday, with invaders reaching the outskirts of the capital, Kyiv, despite facing fierce resistance. An statement released by the FA on Sunday evening reads: “Out of solidarity with the Ukraine and to wholeheartedly condemn the atrocities being committed by the Russian leadership, The FA can confirm that we won’t play against Russia in any international fixtures for the foreseeable future. Liverpool Win Carabao Cup Soucek Gives West Ham 1-0 Win Over Wolves In Premier League “This includes any potential match at any level of senior age group or para football.” The FA’s decision comes after Poland announced they will not compete with Russia in a World Cup play-off scheduled for March. Newly-elected Polish Football Associdation president Cezary Kulesza said on Saturday morning: “No more words, time to act! “Due to the escalation of the aggression of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine, the Polish national team does not intend to play the play-off match against the republic of Russia. “This is the only right decision. We are in talks with the Swedish and and Czech federations to present a common position to FIFA.” POLL Sweden and Czech Republic could face Russia in the play-off final and they have also pleaded for games to be moved away from Moscow. Minutes after the FA released their statement, FIFA released one of their own confirming Russia will need to play fixtures at a neutral venue without an anthem, fans or their flag. “No flag or anthem of Russia will be used in matches where teams from the Football Union of Russia participate,” the statement reads. “FIFA would like to reiterate its condemnation of the use of force by Russia in its invasion of Ukraine. Violence is never a solution and FIFA expresses its deepest solidarity to all people affected by what is happening in Ukraine.” Further, FIFA said they will “continue its ongoing dialogue” with other governing bodies “to determine any additional measures or sanctions, including a potential exclusion from competitions”.