Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya has vowed to remain focused on providing the dividends of democracy to his people despite the opposition’s criticisms in the build-up to the 2023 general elections. The Governor who had shown interest in going for a second term come 2023, returned to the State after spending over three weeks abroad. He told a mammoth crowd that came out to welcome him from the airport down to the Government House Thursday afternoon that his administration will continue to deliver the dividends of democracy no matter how hard and tough the political journey may seem. Aisha Buhari, Dolapo Osinbajo, Ifeanyi Uba, Nollywood Stars Join… Ohanaeze Lauds Ugwuanyi For Contribution To Growth Of Enugu,… According to him, “We will not be distracted by the activities of the opposition, we will keep pushing until we take Gombe State to the promised land in line with our campaign manifesto and the progressive mantra of our great party. No shaking Insha Allah”, he stressed. While appreciating their patience to come out and welcome him he said, “You will recall that since we came into office in May 2019 up till the end of 2021, I left Gombe on the 3rd of January 2022. “In these two and half years, I never travelled and spent up to two weeks outside the State. This time around the journey was long but I want you to know that no single day, hour, a minute or second passed without me having the thought of the people of the State. “Even when I was abroad, I was busy engaging with development partners and investors to attract goodies that will better the lives of our people. I am now back and developmental projects will continue in earnest. We will not relent until we get things done. We have your support and solidarity and which keeps us going”, he added. Later in an interview with Journalists, Governor Inuwa said the trip was a success as he was able to make contacts and convince investors to come and invest in the State especially at the ongoing multi-billion naira Muhammadu Buhari Industrial Park. POLL He said he was also able to engage businessmen with a view of boosting commercial activities that are relatively easy and economically viable to the State, stressing that, ” I believe very soon, you will see them coming”. “Businesses and connections are not normally realised immediately, you must provide some period of gestation and equally for them to mature. I believe that as soon as they pick up, people will see the results. The Governor used the occasion to warn against political thuggery in the build-up to the 2023 election saying, ” I will always fight against violence, I will always fight political thuggery especially with the issue of ‘Kalare’ found in Gombe. “You can see that the conduct of the youths has been very well today. As far as I am concerned, we shall continue that fight and very soon there will be no thuggery, no ‘Kalare’ in Gombe State. That is my position”, he emphasised.