This column has dwelt so much on network of roads in Ijegun/ Satellite Town axis, starting from Ambode one-term regime running into Sanwo-Olu’s. Readers of this column would recall Ambode harped so much on what he called 181 Local Government Inner Roads. We told the sad story of this axis’ residents and asked that government should do something quick. It is good news that work is currently in progress here. But we need to add that there is a caveat. We will come to this later. There is need to do a quick recap in the interest of those who were not aware of the story told in the past. The axis was an ugly sight to behold. The access roads were gullies and craters ridden, fuel laden trucks as well as container trucks endangered lives of people on wheels, pedestrians, business places and homes in this residential area which has been transformed to a mega business axis of cosmopolitan Lagos, what with multibillion naira oil jetties, and of recent, container jetties dominating the place. NESG Calls For Passage Of Food Safety, Quality Bill Before NASS Role Of Gas As An Enabler Of Energy Transition It is good news that at last the Alakija/Navy Town Road is now being renovated. We hear also that Old Ojo Road is being considered. But we make haste to advise that considering the nature of the soil – the nature of the terrain of the area in question, concrete road option is what is appropriate here if the roads must not be short-lived. Asphalt Versus Concrete According to experts, concrete roads are exceptionally durable and mostly maintenance free. They have expected life-span of 30 – 40 years compared to 2 -15 years for bitumen (asphalt) roads; their tremendous compressive strength prevents the formation of wheel ruts or similar irregularities even when used by high percentage of heavy traffic; concrete is highly economical pavement material in particular for motorways that are subject to extreme load. It is argued that the main ingredient for concrete road – cement – is now abundantly available (locally) and can save a lot of foreign exchange for importation of bitumen required for flexible pavement. They also argue that avoidance of road repairing helps in smooth traffic flow throughout the year 24/7; that it saves on fuel consumption of vehicles, reduces travelling time and environment friendly – less pollution and traffic noise; that concrete roads give long lasting smoothness as against bitumen roads which need frequent resurfacing. One expects that now that the Lagos State Government has its antenna turned on the Navy Town Road (which is the gateway to Ijegun/Satellite Town) its road rehabilitation exercise should consider a huge chunk of the road network in this axis that has been neglected all these years. It is time for this axis, which is home to multi-billion naira oil businesses, to enjoy the good network of roads which the likes of Surulere, Mushin, Epe and Ikorodu, to mention just some, are celebrating. POLL Floods Floods and their accompanying disasters are not new to Lagos. Lagos has 176 primary and secondary water channels which require regular cleaning. Agreed that the Lagos State Government is cleaning these channels, this is not done as regularly as should be done. We are not ignorant of the grave implications of flooding – lives and properties are lost and the economy suffers a huge setback. Our local insecurity problem apart, there is a global dimension to it. According to Bloomberg report on wheat farms in the U.S. and Russia, it’s a drought that’s ruining harvests. The soybean fields of Brazil are bone dry too, touched by little more than the occasional shower. In Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia, the problem is the exact opposite. Torrential downpours are causing flooding in rice fields and stands of oil palm trees. The caveat: Work on Alakija/Navy Town Road is commendable but Marwa Road, which houses the Odunade Local Council Development Area office is a different kettle of fish – work here is slow – looks like it has been abandoned. Concrete road dividers here are security risks to