EFG Hermes Corp-Solutions, a subsidiary of EFG Hermes Holding and one of Egypt’s leading leasing and factoring companies, has signed a $25 million deal with Transmar, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IACC Holdings and Egypt’s only container shipping line, to finance the purchase of a cargo vessel. With a carrying capacity of 2100 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent units) and measuring 204 meters in length, the new vessel, ‘Transmar Legacy’, bolsters the company’s Red Sea Service, primarily connecting Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The leasing transaction worth a total of USD 33 million for the purchase of Transmar Legacy will enable Transmar’s growth, reinforcing the company’s position as the region’s leading container line and as a long-standing reliable partner, supporting the region’s top exporters and importers. Transmar has also made sizable investments towards the acquisition of new shipping containers, promoting new market entries and boosting further growth. CBN’s N3trn Finance Interventions Timely – Prof Ife OneBank Rewards Nigerian Workers With Enhanced Financial… Talal Elayat, CEO of EFG Hermes Corp-Solutions, commented: “We are proud to enter into this partnership with Transmar on the first of many vessel financing transactions to come in our pipeline. This flagship leasing transaction is in line with our strategy to diversify our portfolio and create value across multiple industries. “As one of the leading leasing and factoring companies in Egypt, this transaction marks another milestone for EFG Hermes Corp-Solutions, as we enter the maritime industry and support in enhancing the supply chain industry at large. We have worked in collaboration with multiple international and global stakeholders including legal firms, insurance companies and banks, among others to finalize this transaction. With Transmar’s experience, we are pleased to act as an enabler, gearing them towards sustainable growth.” Eng. Mohamed El Ahwal, CEO of IACC Holdings said: “We take pride in being an agile organization that quickly responds to the swift changes defining the current global shipping and logistics industry. We are proud to resume our ship-owning business model (after a 10-year hiatus) and believe this investment marks a new chapter of growth, not only for Transmar but also for the regional shipping industry as a whole.