Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah gave Liverpool a 2-0 win over Inter Milan at the San Siro as they took complete charge of the Champions League tie. It was a tight first 75 minutes, with the Italians probably the better side as neither side managed a shot on target despite it being an open and entertaining affair. But Firmino’s flicked header opened the scoring and Salah then doubled the lead to give Jurgen Klopp’s a commanding lead heading into the second-leg at Anfield. Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… Biden Orders Release Of Trump White House Logs To Panel Probing… Liverpool’s high pressing caused Inter problems right from the start, as they regularly won the ball back in dangerous positions. Salah had a shot well blocked in the box, while Sadio Mane should have done better from a free-kick as he header over the bar. Inter’s best moment of the half came when the ball was cut back to Hakan Calhanoglu in the box and he sent an effort crashing against the bar, while Milan Skriniar headed just wide from a corner. The home side had some promising moments on the break too, but a combination of a poor final ball and brilliant defending from Virgil van Dijk and Ibrahima Konate prevented them from creating any more clear-cut chances. It was a brilliant start to the second-half from Inter, with Marcelo Brozovic dragging a shot wide and Ivan Perisic was then inches away from laying it on a plate for Lautaro Martinez, but the cross had just too much pace on it. POLL Perisic had a shot blocked before Edin Dzeko thought he had put the home side in front, only to be swiftly, and correctly denied by the offside flag. Klopp made a triple substitution in an attempt to gain some control back, with Jordan Henderson, Luis Diaz and Naby Keita all introduced. Diaz was bright for the Reds, having one effort blocked and then whipping another from distance just wide. Denzel Dumfries headed over the bar from a corner to the near post, as Inter continued to press and cause problems but they couldn’t find a crucial goal. They were made to regret that shortly after, when Andy Robertson whipped a corner to the near post and Firmino got across his man to flick a header into the far corner. Inter looked devastated by that goal and it got worse for them with seven minutes remaining. Trent Alexander-Arnold’s cross was not cleared, it fell to Salah in the box and his strike wrong-footed Samir Handanovic to find the back of the net. UCL: Conman Equaliser Salvages Draw For Uninspiring Bayern… ASUU Shuts Down Bayelsa Varsity, Joins One-Month Strike The home side were unable to find a late goal to give them something to take to Anfield, as Liverpool took a huge step towards the Champions League quarter-finals. (SOURCE: Standard UK)