★Gives Them 7 Day Ultimatum To Appear ★Notifies Presidency Of Noncompliance ★ Begins Probes Into Alleged Missing $40 Million Recovered Loot Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… ABUJA – The House of Representatives Public Accounts Committee on Tuesday issued a 7-day ultimatum to 5 Ministers and some senior civil servants over their refusal to honour series of invites to offer explanations regarding multiple audit queries issued to them by the Office of the Auditor General for the Federation. The committee stated that the affected ministers either appear before it or be sanctioned in line with the law of the land. The Ministers are those of the Ministry of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy, Ministry of Health, Sheikh Ibrahim Pantami, Ministry of Environment, Muhammed Abubakar, as well as that of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola respectively. The Chairman of the Committee, Hon Oluwole Oke (PDP, Osun) who handed down the ultimatum at the resumed sitting of the Committee said that Minister of Interior Ogbeni Raufu Aregbesola should appear alongside the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, and the Head of the Federal Fire Service. He also directed that the Committee Clerk should immediately dispatch the notice of the summons to the affected Ministries and copy same to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the Minister for Justice and Attorney General for Federation, as well as the Chief of Staff to the President. POLL He lamented that the Parliament was reporting the affected officials to the Presidency (their employer), after several attempts to make them see reasons why they should respond to the said audit queries failed. Oke said:, “Today makes the fifth time the Ministry of Works and Housing will be asking for another extension of time on the audit query raised against it over the years. For how long shall we continue like this? Mr President honoured some people with Public appointments but to pay him back, they will not be alive to their responsibilities, this is very unfortunate.” “We are only asking them to make appearances before the Committee to clarify issues on financial infractions raised by the office of the Auditor General for the federation, nothing more” This was just as the Committee began investigation into the missing $40 million from the looted funds recovery account of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN. It also followed alleged inability of the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele to tender relevant documents before the Public Accounts Committee of the House, to ascertain the status of recovered funds in the said account. Convention: S/South APC Stakeholders Demand National Secretary… Senate Approves Six New Law Schools Across Geo-Political Zones Chairman Oke insisted that the apex bank must bring all the relevant documents, demanded for by the committee to ease their investigation with a view to recovering the money for government. The CBN governor who was represented by the deputy director, banking supervision, Mrs Iguadunasue C.I could not offer satisfactory explanations on the whereabouts of the funds in question. Miffed by the development, Oke ordered the CBN to “furnish the committee with documents of all recovered funds within seven days for proper investigation.” The office of Auditor General for the Federation, AuGF had queried the CBN demanding answers on the whereabouts of the money in question. For four years, beginning from 2016, nothing, according to the AuGF’s office entered the account from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC despite series of recoveries made by the commission over the time in question, hence the query. In his ruling, Oke demanded that the CBN produce a soft copy of entries of both inflow and outflow of foreign exchange so as to ascertain the amount of recoveries.