ABUJA – The 2023 presidential bid of Senator Anyim Pius Anyim received a major boost on Tuesday, as eighty -five political pressure groups, rallied in Abuja in support of the former Senate President who is seeking the ticket of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 presidential election. Addressing a world press conference in a rare show solidarity for a Nigerian President of South East extraction, the United For Better Nigeria Initiative (UBNI), in collaboration with the South West Coalition Group, South South Coalition Group, the Northern Coalition Group and South East Coalition said time has come for Nigeria to heal. They declared at the rally held at the Shehu Musa Yar Adua Centre, Abuja, that only Chief Anyim who they say have traversed the height of Political and administrative echelon of the country, can fix the problem facing the nation. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Reps Back Bill Proposing Higher Educational Qualifications For… Alhaji Suleiman Shehu, leader of the Coalition of Northern Groups for South East Presidency 2023, who addressed the gathering, said Anyim fits bill of the kind of president Nigerians want. Going memory lane he said since Independence the South East remains the only region that has not ruled the country. Having tasted the leadership and capacity of the other regions, that it only fair and appropriate for Nigerians to support the South East to produce the President in 2023. “We have seen the leadership qualities of the North and the South West but we have not seen the leadership of the people from the South East. What are we afraid of in electing a President from the South East? Peace, justice and fairness can never be attained without power rotation in Nigeria,” he said. Speaking in the vein Dr Kayode Odeyemi who led the South West Coalition to the rally canvassed the need for Nigerians to lend support not only to the South East as a zone but to Anyim Pius Anyim, simply because he is eminently qualified for the job. “We are solidly behind the candidature of Sen Anyim Pius Anyim (APA). He is the most qualified and prepared for the race. This is the time for the South East, let us give him the support because he is capable of taking Nigeria to the promised land. POLL “He was not just the President of the Senate, he was also the Secretary to the government of the Federation (SGF), which placed him in the engine room of governance at the Federal level. If the man has held these two strategic positions, it then follows that he has the capacity and is fully prepared for the job. This us a crusade that has permeated the nooks and crannies of this country. We call on all Nigerians to queue behind this candidate and give the South East a chance in the interest of fairness, equity and justice, ” Odeyemi said.