Re-strategizing, realignment and and building bridges are now top priority for politicians across the country as the 2023 general elections draw nearer. As part of this re-strategizing, the governor of Sokoto state Aminu Waziri Tambuwal paid a visit to the former governor of Kaduna state and former Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party Sen Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi. During the visit, Tambuwal stated that the only legacy left for President Muhammadu Buhari was to emulate former President Jonathan by conducting a free , fair and credible election in 2023. Enugu LG Polls: APGA Chairman Charges ENSIEC On Free, Fair… FCT Council Polls: Police Withdraw Earlier Announced Curfew The meeting with the former PDP Chairman was also attended by former Governor Bafarawa, former minister Mukhtar Shagari, lawmakers, retired Army officers and many PDP chieftains, Tambuwal said he was in Kaduna to see Makarfi who had returned from a hospital overseas. Makarfi had in his remarks; admonished the PDP stalwarts and other party members to unite and embrace one another. Makarfi advised that, “If we unite and accommodate each other we will have cause to smile,” Speaking in an interview with journalists before his departure,Tambuwal said Makarfi has appealed to the members of the party to come together. “That is becoming our national anthem….unity unity unity all the way .It’s only when we are united that we can have a very strong force ,” he said. POLL According to him, ” As I said it before, the Head of the electoral umpire INEC..,Prof Mahmood has only one option.That option is to leave a lasting legacy. From my knowledge he is from a very good family background.” “So he needs to actually make sure that he did not soil that his family history and his own personal history by ensuring he conduct a free and fair election.” “Even President Muhammadu Buhari himself…despite all the failures that we are seeing in this administration, the only legacy that is left for him is to ensure he conducts free ,fair and credible election.Same way as President Goodluck Jonathan did ensured and handed over to him in 2015,” he said.