Tension is currently brewing in Amuokpokpor-Elume, Ologho, Elume, Okwelabra, Ekoko, Eroghor, Idjekporo, Mereje, Opuraja communities in Sapele and Okpe Local Government Areas of Delta state, following an oil spill from wellheads being operated by Conoil Nigeria Limited. It was gathered that the spill occurred last week Thursday and has led to the outbreak of waterborne and skin diseases in the various communities. NASS On Fact-Finding Mission In Ogoni Over Oil Spills Bayelsa Fishing Settlements Lament Effects Of Oil Spill The locals who expressed displeasure over the unfortunate disaster in a peaceful protest within the affected communities lamented that the river which is the only source of water for drinking, cooking, bathing and farming has been contaminated. Mr. Christopher Efe Obule, President of Amuokpokpor-Elume, one of the affected communities, who led the protesters, said crude oil and natural gas have been pumping into the river of the affected communities and nearby fishing settlements for over a week, yet Conoil Nigeria Limited, has abandoned their corporate responsibilities in disaster management. He described the river pollution as a very unfortunate disaster that has hit the communities since oil was discovered along the river over forty years ago. He lamented the havoc caused to the communities and called on the relevant authorities to come to their rescue and restore sound health to their people and a healthy environment. POLL Mr. Obule said some of their children who were ignorant of the disaster drank the polluted water and were quickly hospitalized while others developed skin diseases. Also speaking, Councillor Representing Ward 18 in the Council, Hon. Sam Azu called on government at all levels, as well as other well-meaning individuals and organisations to prevail on Conoil Nigeria Limited to do the needful regarding the oil spill, lamenting that it has grounded economic activities in the area for over a week. Hon. Azu who is a native of the community said the sad incident remained the biggest oil spill disaster in the history of the community since the three wellheads were built there over 40 years. Sri Lankan Officials Brace For Oil Spill From Sinking Ship Oil Spill: Amgbaduba Denies Accusation Of Ethnic Bigotry The community’s eldest man Mr. Smart Oghomedje who spoke alongside others said the residents of the community who are peasant farmers can no longer go to their fishing activities. While displaying their fishing nets, cages, hooks among others soaked in crude oil, said if no urgent attention is taken by the company to ameliorate their plights, that the possibility of the entire community being wiped out by the waterborne and skin diseases is inevitable. They however demanded the physical presence of the Managing Director of the oil firm to see things for himself and ensure honesty and transparency on the way out of the woods. Efforts to reach the Public Relations Officer of the company was unsuccessful as at the time of filing this report.