JOS – President Muhammadu Buhari has described late Ngo Zimi Pam, mother of the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC) as a selfless woman who worked tirelessly for the common good of Plateau State and Nigeria. He commiserated with the Governor and good people of Plateau State over the loss of mama Zimi, saying that her demise has created a vacuum. Buhari who was represented by Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen at the burial ceremony, appreciated Rev. Pam for taking care of his mother up to the age of 97 and admonished children to take good care of their mothers. I-G Orders Investigation Into Contribution For ‘Lost… Nigeria Needs Your Contributions, Gowon Tells Nigerians “Mama has raised good and worthy children among them is Rev. Yakubu Pam, Executive Secretary NCPC whom I am happy with his intervention on peace and unity of the country.” Plateau State Governor and Chairman Northern Governors Forum, Simon Bako Lalong on his part, said the demise of Mama Zimi has created a big vacuum that would be difficult to fill. He said that late Mama Zimi Pam would be remembered as a devout Christian and community leader who gave her best to the service of God. Lalong described Rev. Pam as an Ambassador of peace who has never been afraid to go to the war zone to make peace in the interest of Plateau and the unity of Nigeria. He said his initiative in revamping the NCPC which was gradually going moribund and said Rev. Pam has raised the bar of leadership at the NCPC. POLL Chairman of the Nigerian Governor Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi described late Mama Zimi as a virtuous woman who lived not only for her children but her entire community and Plateau people. “Mama clearly lived a life of service, we can be adjudged from all the testimonies of people who have written tributes about Mama that she was a good woman in all ramifications. “She did not live her life for only her children but her community and Plateau State. She has produced children who are changing the narrative of life in the society positively and one of them is Rev. Yakubu Pam.” He said Mama fought a good fight and was a mentor to many people who have impacted society positively. President Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle described Late Ngo Zimi Pam as a worthy ambassador of Christ while on earth. He rejoiced with Rev. Pam because Mama died at a ripe old age and as a Christian who worked tirelessly to lead many to Christ. Plateau State CAN Chairman, Polycarp Lubo, said death is a necessary end and urged the family to be consoled for the fact that mama is currently living in a better place. Deputy Chairman CAN, Northern Nigeria Rev. Bitrus Dodo urged the family to offer prayers of Thanksgiving because of the life mama lived on earth. He described Rev. Pam as a selfless man who stood for the unity and progress of Nigeria. Chairman Arewa Consultative Forum, Audu Ogbe described Mama as a woman of honour despite her inability to go to school but impacted society. He noted that Rev. Pam who came through the womb of his mother has worked tirelessly for the peace of Plateau State and Nigeria. Ogbe noted that the Arewa Consultative Forum is working tirelessly to bring peace, unity and tolerance between Christians and Muslims in Northern Nigeria. Chairman APC Plateau State, Rufus Bature prayed God to grant the family and her associates the fortitude to bear the loss of Mama. Rev. Pam said her mother was his source of strength and knows how to rebuke him when he’s wrong. There was a representative of former President, Goodluck Jonathan, Nasarawa State Governor, Benue State Governor among others.