LAGOS – Women’s Rights And Health Project (WRAHP), a Non-Governmental Organisation, (NGO) has led 20 other Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) on a sensitization drive against Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV). In a programme held over the weekend, at Isolo area of Lagos, and funded by Eu-Agents for Citizens Driven Transformation Programme, the organisers, WRAHP, stated that the programme holds every month to interact with members of the communities on issues relating to SGBV. Mrs. Bose Ironsi, Executive Director of WRAHP who was represented by Segun Babalola, an officer at WRAHP, said that the objective of the programme was to sensitize the community about the danger of SGBV and how to help victims. WRAHP Partners Group To Fight Workplace-Based Violence SGBV: FG To Train Investigators, Prosecutors – Malami “We selected 20 CSOs, asked them to come with five members each from their various communities so that they can get the necessary information and escalate to other members of their communities when they get home. On the impact of their interventions over the years, she said, “Our activities have been impactful, for example in this gathering today we have a survivor. She was also here last month and today she is full of life and can attest to the fact that she has benefitted from our programmes. According to her, WRAHP manages the Ireti Resource Centre which has been providing psyco-social support, counseling therapy for survivors of SGBV. We also provide legal support, including court filings. “In an effort to respond to survivors of SGBV, the first lady of Lagos State,  Dr (Mrs) Ibironke Sanwo-Olu donated N50 million to a trust fund that will help to take care of survivors’ medical services and other needs. When they survive this violence they must get tested for Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus (HIV) and other infectious diseases. There are hospitals that are designated to attend to survivors at no cost to them,” she said. Ironsi stressed that they emphasize the importance of reporting because the effect of SGBV is much but most cases are either not reported or under-reported. POLL “From the report, we are getting it is clear that there is an improvement. We expect them to go back and sensitize their religious organisations, market women and associations on the danger of SGBV and how they can report cases to appropriate quarters. They must report these perpetrators so that when they are punished it will serve as a deterrent to others,” she said.   Florence Ubajekwe, a radio presenter and founder, Of Women and Children Against Sexual Abuse said that the programme has helped them to reach the right people and increase their knowledge of how to handle some of the cases they come across in the course of interactions with the community members. “The programme will give you assurance of support because some of us have small NGOs with little capacity to handle some of these cases, but with the help of CSOs like WRAHP, we can get support, pursue our cases  to the end and get justice for the victims. She added, “Most of the well to do, think that the only thing that matters is the provision of resources. It is not true, there is also a need for communication. Parents should not just provide everything but in addition to that, they should provide parental care so that the child can open up to them in case he or she is passing through some challenges especially threat from the opposite sex. Rukayat Olasukonmi, a survivor said that she has benefited immensely from the information and attention provided by WRAHP which has helped her to cope with the trauma she experienced and because of the violence and other assistance that she got from WRAHP she has recovered very fast. Speaking on the benefit of the programme, she said, “We have been adequately informed about the importance of reporting cases of SGBV. I also know that I now have a responsibility to sensitize others, tell them why they mustn’t keep quiet when abused. If people keep quiet, no one will understand the level of torture they are passing through so they must speak up.”