ABUJA – Justice Olufunke Anuwe of the National Industrial Court Abuja has granted the request of a former Manager of Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority Administration (OGFZAA), Mr. Funmilayo Omosule to testify from the United States of America, in a suit challenging his suspension. The court directed Mr. Omosule to do so on April 4, when the matter comes up definite hearing.Justice Anuwe had granted virtual proceedings in order to fast-track resolutions of all issues surrounding the disputed suspension. Counsel to the plaintiff, Dr Tunji Abayomi, had applied to the court to invoke Order 37, Rule 2 of the National Industrial Court to bring the legal battle to a final end. Slain Akwa Ibom Jobseeker: Accused Person Denies Police… BREAKING: Court Fines AGF N200,000 For Shoddy Trial Of… Abahomi lamented that the case challenging mere unlawful suspension had dragged for years.Plaintiff’s counsel said he has only one witness, who is in the USA for medical treatment, adding that all documentary evidence front-loaded to the court by Omosule was not disputed by the defendant, hence the need for quick resolution of the matter. Omosule, who is the claimant in the suit is seeking the sum of N50m as exemplary and general damages over his alleged suspension. OGFZAA had via a letter dated April 18, 2011, suspended Omosule as the Manager of its Abuja office, on the grounds that he refused to comply with its letter dated December 3, 2010, which had directed him to present the originals of his credentials for verification. Omosule, however, refuted the claim of the authority, stating rather that he made available to the defendant, Certified True Copies (CTCs) of his educational certificates /credentials, including GCE ‘O Level certificates and degree certificates as instructed. Omosule had claimed that the originals of his credentials were misplaced in untraceable circumstances as at 2010 when the report to submit originals was made. POLL The claimant also averred that the CTCs of his certificates submitted to the defendant were certified by the issuing institutions, which included West African Examination Council and the University of Ado-Ekiti, then Ondo State University, Ado-Ekiti respectively. By the suit, the claimant wants the court‘s declaration that he was still a staff of the organisation and entitled to all the rights, privileges and benefits due to him by reason of his employment. He is praying the court for an order directing the defendant to reinstate him to the position of a director, on grade level 17, a position he claimed his contemporaries were holding currently. In addition, he is Omosule seeking for the order of the court to direct the defendant to pay all his outstanding salaries, benefits and entitlement since 2011. In addition, he is asking the court to order the defendant to pay him the sum of N50m as exemplary and general damages.