ABUJA – The controversies trailing the amended Electoral Act Amendment Bill may have heightened as a coalition of civil society groups have told the presidency not to exceed March 1, 2022, in assenting to the Bill. The CSOs numbering over 26 is mostly worried that the delays is disrupting preparations of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC for the 2023 general elections, especially the procurement and deployment of resources for the polls. Their concerns persist despite assurance from the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina that President Muhammadu Buhari was due to sign the bill in a matter of hours. VerifyMe Unveils Nigeria’s 1st Digital ID, KYC Industry Report Katsina: Police, Other Security Agencies To Collaborate Against… The CSOs mainly spearheaded by Yiaga Africa, also took a protest to the National Assembly yesterday, to compel the presidency to do the needful. According to the CSOs, Buhari should at least respect the wish of the people by assenting to the bill and return it to the National Assembly for a further amendment if he has some reservations against its composition now. “We call on President Buhari to sign the Electoral Bill into law on or before the expiration of the 30 days timeline on the 1st March 2022 to enable INEC to issue Notice of Election and release the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general election. “Further amendments to the Electoral Bill 2022 can be proposed after assent has been granted. It is within the President’s prerogative to propose amendments after signing the bill like he did in the case of the Petroleum Industry Bill and 2022 Appropriation bill, an act that attracted commendation. “The National Assembly should ensure gazetted copies of the Electoral Act 2022 are available to citizens as soon as the bill is signed into law. POLL “You will recall that on the 18th February 2022, civil society groups had called on President Buhari to assent to the Electoral Bill 2022 on or before Tuesday, 22nd February 2022 to avert any shift in the date for the 2023 elections already fixed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Our demand was informed by the provisions of Clause 28 (1) of the Electoral Bill 2022, which requires INEC to issue Notice of Election not later than 360 days before the day appointed for an election”.