Says Action Symptom Of Madness, Fear ABUJA – The Senator Kabiru Marafa-led faction of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State has described Friday’s certificate presentation to elected State Chairmen of the party as desperate action that “negates all principles of strategic thinking for building an enduring party that can weather the storm of 2023 as President Buhari rightly warned”. The presentation conducted inside the APC national secretariat under tight security by John James Akpanudedehe, Secretary of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), according to Send Marafa, was a failed attempt to confer legitimacy on the Governor Bello Matawalle faction of the APC in Zamfara. FG, NCF Commemorate 2022 World Wetland Day Angela Folarin To Be Buried On Feb 22 Recall that the party broke into three factions following the disputed State Congress with the former governor of the state Abdulazeez Yari leading one of the three factions. Describing the action of the CECPC as insane and illegal, Marafa said his faction meticulously conducted its ward, LGA and State Congresses following a due process where he said Honourable Sirajo Garba Maikatako emerged as the State Chairman. Aside from that he said the matter about the state Congress is before a competent court hence the charade on Friday would be held in fear suggesting that a coup was hatched under a democratic arrangement. “We noted with interest how the certificate presentation event was conducted under fears and jitters with heavy deployment of police all-round the secretariat in a typical way of political coup plotters under a democracy. “The brief way the event was conducted and the absence of the CECPC Chairman although physically within the Secretariat, as well as the uncertainty between inauguration and certificate presentation, were all indicators of fear arising from inherent guilt of the Committee and the impotence of its action. POLL “Certificate presentation at Party level in the way conducted by the Committee is a new thing within the political space of Nigeria and an indication of the confusion characterizing the Party leadership”. Hon. Bello Bakyasuwa Maradun, Spokesperson to Senator Marafa-led faction of APC in a statement note that Zamfara State Governor had in re-echoing the Abuja illegality asked his supporters to ensure that no other party offices exist in Zamfara except the Government faction. He such threat of extinction against other rival factions will be resisted “Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State urging his factional group to ensure that no other APC offices exists in the state from the certificate presentation charade. For us, this is a big illusion as it is practically impossible for our hundreds of offices across the state, local governments and wards to be closed out of the Governor’s empty threat. “Any attempt to use state resources to enforce that nightmare will be overwhelmed by the number and forces of the two major factions of APC in the state. In our view, Governor Matawalle of Zamfara State should be at the forefront of respecting matters before the court of law because he is one of its products as a Governor. Zamfara Assembly Commences Moves To Impeach Deputy Gov Gusau Inuwa Charge N’East SSGs To Proffer Solutions To… “Unfortunately, his statements betray this expectation. Also, before making that statement, the Governor should have reminded himself that, only last week, the Vice Chairman of his faction of APC for Central Zone with decamped with hundreds of others to one of the major factions of the Party including a courtesy visit to Senator Marafa during the intra-party loyalty switch.”