President Joe Biden assured Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky that the United States and its allies will respond “swiftly and decisively” to any further aggression by Russia against Ukraine, according to a White House readout of a phone call between the two leaders. The Sunday morning call took place as US officials continue to warn that an attack from Russia could come “any day now” and urge all Americans still in Ukraine to leave the country, ABC News reported. “President Biden made clear that the United States would respond swiftly and decisively, together with its allies and partners, to any further Russian aggression against Ukraine,” the White House said of the call, adding, “The two leaders agreed on the importance of continuing to pursue diplomacy and deterrence in response to Russia’s military build-up on Ukraine’s borders.” Ukraine Fears Emmanuel Macron’s Fraught Peace-Dealings… Biden Urges American Citizens To Leave Ukraine Immediately Russia denies plotting an invasion and has demanded legal guarantees over its security from the United States and NATO, demanding the alliance stop an Eastward expansion. In a tweet Sunday following the call, Zelensky said he and Biden discussed “security, economy, existing risks, sanctions and Russian aggression”. The conversation with the Ukrainian president comes one day after Biden spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin, where Biden similarly warned that should Russia take action against Ukraine, the US, along with its allies, “will respond decisively and impose swift and severe costs on Russia”. According to a White House official, the call between Biden and Zelensky, who last spoke at the end of January, lasted 51 minutes, a shorter call than Biden’s discussion with Putin on Saturday, which lasted just over an hour. A senior administration official, speaking with reporters following the Saturday call with Putin, said the tone was “professional and substantive”, however, “there was no fundamental change in the dynamic that has been unfolding now for several weeks”. POLL Since Friday, the Biden administration has ramped up its warnings about a possible Russian attack on Ukraine — which they say could happen as soon as this week. “We have seen, over the course of the past 10 days, dramatic acceleration in the buildup of Russian forces and the disposition of those forces in such a way that they could launch a military action essentially at any time,” National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said on CBS on Sunday, adding, “They could do so this coming week.” Despite the warnings, Zelensky has continued to call for calm in the country and seemed to express frustration with the dire tone. “The best friend of our enemy is panic in our country, and all that information which helps create only panic doesn’t help us,” Zelensky said Saturday. The United States is preparing to pull all government personnel from Kyiv within the next two days as fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine escalate, CBS News reported Sunday night. Biden To Send Troops To Eastern Europe Amid Ukraine Diplomacy… Biden To Distribute 400 Million N95 Masks For Free, Starting… The US State Department issued a travel advisory early Saturday morning, announcing that “most US direct hire employees” were being evacuated from the embassy in Kyiv, though some were staying put. A number of staff are being moved to Lviv, which is situated in the Western region of Ukraine, because “its closer proximity to US diplomatic and consular facilities in neighboring countries”, an official said on Saturday. The level four advisory also urged US citizens not to travel to the area and those who remain in the country to depart “immediately”. CBS News cited sources saying that 7,000 Americans are registered with the US Embassy in Kyiv, though as many as 30,000 could be living there.