Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has expressed happiness over the signing into law of the Bill for the upgrading of the Federal College of Education Pankshin into a University of Education by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Bill which was passed by the National Assembly and sent to the President for assent provided for the upgrading of the existing Federal College of Education Pankshin into a University of Education. While reacting to the assent on the Bill for the Federal University of Education Pankshin, Governor Simon Lalong expressed deep appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his unquestionable love for Plateau State and his consistency in considering matters related to its progress and development. Nigeria Ignores Funding Technology But Investing In Corruption… Bayelsa To Inaugurate Health, Education, Media, Road Projects In… Lalong specifically thanked the sponsor of the Bill Rt. Hon. Yusuf Gagdi, Member Representing Pankshin, Kanam, Kanke Federal Constituency for his doggedness in pursuing the bill and lobbying his colleagues, also praised all Federal legislators from Plateau State, leadership of the National Assembly particularly Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, and all legislators for the various roles they played in ensuring that the law was passed and sent to the President for assent. According to him, this development further validates the position of Plateau State as a Centre of learning in the North Central, Northern Nigeria and indeed the  nation at large, saying the creation of the University will further resolve the challenge of shortage of well trained teachers in the country. Governor Lalong assured that the Plateau State Government will give every support to the Federal Government to ensure that the University takes off, adding that so far, the infrastructure available is good enough to give it a strong start. It would be recalled that shortly after the National Assembly sent the passed bill to the President for assent, Governor Lalong visited the Presidential Villa to meet with President Buhari and appealled to him to give his assent to the bill.