LAGOS – Stakeholders, particularly those in the Christian fold, have called for the promotion of the biblical principle of justice as a major tool for the progress of Nigeria. The Church leaders and lawyers at the 13th Founder’s Day of the Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN) annual lecture and awards ceremony tagged; ‘Justice: Catalyst For A Progressive Nigeria’, held in Victoria Island, Lagos, frowned at the untold pains and setback experienced by many in Nigeria due to the manipulation and lack of restorative justice in the legal system. Prof. Yemi Akinseye-George, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who was the speaker at the annual lecture, said the leadership of the country must understand that “there is no progress without justice”. Hope Renewed At INL 12th Thanksgiving Service Cleric Calls For Continuous Intercession To Heal Nigeria The Principal Partner, Prof. Akinseye-George (SAN) & partners stressed that “insecurity would be reduced drastically”, if the political elite recognise the importance of justice and are willing to promote it. He, said unlike before, he had stopped discouraging youths from leaving the country due to the denial of justice that has taken over the system. Akinseye-George, wondered why individuals who have nothing good to offer the country, occupy key positions, whereas those with bright ideas to move the nation forward get locked out. He, called on Christians to wake up to the challenge of contributing their quotas to changing the narratives and building a better Nigeria. Similarly, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State said no society can achieve its potentials and the desired level of development without putting in place and nurturing a system that guarantees justice and fairness to all. POLL “Lack of social justice breeds discontent, distrust, frustration, which may lead to instability, chaos and eventually breakdown of law,” stated Sanwo-Olu who was represented by Mrs. Cecilia Bolaji Dada, Commissioner for Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. In his welcome address, Rt. Rev. Dr. Timothy Banwo, BSN President who also represented General Dr. Yakubu Gowon, BSN Patron, urged Nigerian Christians and Churches not to stand aloof but to accept responsibility of the ownership of BSN as part of efforts in nation building. Rev. Sam Aboyeji, General Overseer of Foursquare Gospel Church, who was the Chairman of the occasion and one of the awardees, also commended BSN for its efficiency in translation of the Bible. He assured continuous support of BSN by the Foursquare Gospel Church, while asking other churches to do same. Pastor Samuel Sanusi, BSN General Secretary/CEO revealed that injustice also exists in the Church as the BSN has not witnessed support from many Nigerian Churches in its Bible production, translation works, even the present pressing need which is the Bible House project worth N2.2 billion. He lamented that these Churches only remember BSN exists, when they need free copies of the Bible. Osa-Daniel Recalls God’s Mercy At 50th Birthday Let Your Faith Make You A Conqueror In addition to Aboyeji other awardees present at the venue included Barr. Dele Adesina (SAN), Principal Solicitor, Dele Adesina; Deacon Tom Ogboi, Chairman/Managing Director, The Ehi Consulting; Dr. Aaron Nuhu and Mr. Tom Otuaga, Chief Executive Officer, KTS Oil and Gas Services Limited and BSN Ambassador expressed appreciation to BSN for finding them worthy of recognition. They all pledged to keep supporting BSN as part of serving God and humanity with their lives and resources. Meanwhile, BSN through the programme anchor, Lucky Ogwu reiterated that the awards “was not for buying favour but to recognise those impacting lives”, as Christians were further charged to be live meaningfully and touch lives.