Arsenal reportedly rejected the chance to negotiate a January swap deal with Paris Saint-Germain that would have seen Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang join the Ligue 1 leaders in exchange for Argentine striker Mauro Icardi. According to the Athletic’s David Ornstein, the Gunners did not want to shift from their policy of pursuing pre-established targets, instead preferring to focus their attention towards signing a replacement for Aubameyang in the summer. The prospect of swapping Aubameyang for Icardi last month did not materialise because Arsenal already had a list of players they would look to sign in the event of their captain’s departure. Benzema still Doubtful For First Leg Against PSG Aubameyang On Arsenal Exit: ‘My Problem Was Only With Arteta’ PSG forward Icardi was not on that list, meaning any prospect of the Ligue 1 leaders using the 28-year-old as part of a deal to bring Aubameyang to the Parc des Princes failed to materialise. The former Borussia Dortmund striker subsequently joined Barcelona on a free transfer that was not confirmed until after the window had slammed shut. Mikel Arteta’s side did not bring in a replacement for Aubameyang, leaving France forward Alexandre Lacazette as their main striking option until the end of the season. Despite the wealth of attacking options in PSG’s squad – and their apparent willingness to sanction the player’s exit last month – Icardi has been an important player in Mauricio Pochettino’s system. The forward has made 25 appearances in all competitions so far this season, but has only found the back of the net five times despite operating in the centre-forward’s position in an expensively-assembled side containing the likes of Neymar, Lionel Messi and Kylian Mbappé. Additionally, Icardi often finds himself on the periphery of the action when PSG play in the Champions League, the competition Pochettino was brought to the club to win. POLL The striker has yet to start a game in Europe’s elite competition as his manager often opts for a 4-3-3 formation on Champions League nights, but is a frequent starter in league and domestic cup matches.