Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), in this interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, speaks about the recently approved Fifth Generation (5N) network, the 5 per cent Ticket Sales Charge/Cargo Sales Charge (TSC/CSC) and the plan to address it in the new Civil Aviation Act 2020, among others. Excerpts: The Federal Government recently approved Fifth General (5G) network deployment in the country, while the same network has been suspended in some countries, including the United States, what is your say on this? It is not completely true that the Fifth Generation (5G) network has been suspended in the United States, rather it was just in some of the places close to a few of the airports within some radius in order to fully understand what is happening. The Igbo Apprenticeship Scheme Has Helped In Reducing… If Elected Rivers Gov, I Will Invest In Human Capacity… The concern raised is about interference with aircraft that are being controlled to land. There is a critical component called radio altimeter; the spectrum by which this equipment operates is close to that of the 5G. So, they are afraid of interference from the radio altimeter and giving aircraft erroneous indication and it’s during aircraft approach landing when they are about 2,500ft or so above the ground. Usually, it is for flights that are put to land. For us in Nigeria, we don’t have auto landing authorisation, our flights don’t do auto landing. So, for now, it is of no concern to us, but we are still monitoring the situation, see the development if there are issues that might affect us, then, we will take the necessary action. Sir, what is your say on the letter that emanated from the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) to the National Assembly, canvassing for the removal of NCAA from the civil service structure? NCAA is a government agency and not an independent body; we operate under public service rules and government salary structure. POLL We have very experienced pilots with minimum of 4,000 flying hours. That is the recommendation to be a flying instructor, but our pay is poor when compared to what the industry is paying. Our pay within the civil service structure seems to be great, but if you compare that to the closest we need from the industry, our pay is poor. So, people will rather go and work in the industry as a captains, earn some millions of naira, than to come here and earn less than N1 million. It is normal for humans to do that. If I can work somewhere and get triple of my monthly salaries for less work, why will I go and work somewhere else? The only people that come to work for NCAA as flight operation inspectors are people who have retired from flying. People who have attained the age of 65 years or more and we employed them on special contracts and even as a special contract staff, when you get to 70 years of age, you are supposed to leave. If you employ someone who is 65 years old, it takes you about 18 months to two years to train him and by the time he’s going to function as a full inspector, he has three years to go. BUA Foods Plc Will Generate Sustainable Employment, Boost… Ogun APC Govt Busy Providing What People Don’t Need – Hon… He has to go by age 70. This is not a very efficient system. We need to find a right balance within the senior inspectors and the younger ones so that we do not have this every four years disruption where we have to start looking for inspectors. It is very disruptive and it is not the most efficient use of resources. We certainly need the elderly people for their experience, but we need to strike the right balance. We need to get people who can be employed as regular staff, people who are under 50 years old and can come out to work and by the time they retire at the mandatory age of 60, we can still engage them as contract staff for another 10 years. So, you will have people who can work with you for 20 years and this promotes stability in the system. According to the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) documents 9737, we are supposed to be a competitive employer, but because we are under the civil service rule, which we must comply with, I cannot compete with the airlines in the hiring of staff and in the other side, the aviation safety inspectors, they come out of school, we employ them, train them, they are here for six years and when they are about to become very productive for the system, the private sector comes and attract them with better salaries and take them away. Can you give a statistics on the number of private jets we have in Nigeria? I don’t have that figure off hand and I don’t want to give you an erroneous figure, but our expectation is that the private jet sector will also receive a boost. We believe it will increase. There is this allegation that some of the private jet operators engage in illegal charter services, what are you doing to curb this act? The fact is that if we catch anyone misusing his type of license, we will sanction him and sanction could be a fine or up to the suspension of your operating permit. How far has the New Civil Aviation Act 2020, which is expected to come on stream very soon addressed the 5 per cent TSC/CSC warehouse by NCAA on behalf of other agencies? There is a bit of adjustment on the 5 per cent Ticket Sales Charge/Cargo Sales Charge (TSC/CSC) and I have heard a lot of people say that NCAA is taking a bulk sum from the 5 per cent. That 58 per cent that we take is about 95 per cent of my own source of income. For the other agencies, whatever they get from it may be about 20 per cent of their own income because they get from other services they render to clients. But, NCAA doesn’t get any allocation from the Federal Government budgets. All the other agencies get from the government budgets. People just look at the TSC/CSC, but they don’t look at the bigger picture. Other agencies get annual budget from the Federal Government, landing and parking charges, over flier charges and other sources of revenues. So, all these things were taken into consideration before arriving at whatever we get from the 5 per cent. Also, don’t forget, our fixed schedules have remained the same over the years. To get an Air Operators’ Certificate (AOC), it is just N200,000. That is less than a return business ticket from Lagos to Kano, basically, we are subsiding the industry. That is the least charge. Some organsations are buying planes worth tens of millions of dollars, but they are only paying N200,000 to get a certificate that will pronounce them as a commercial operator. Don’t you think something is wrong somewhere? The N200,000 cannot even do manual reviews of the process, not to talk of training or retraining an inspector and you still pay him his salaries to provide those services to the airlines. So, that is one of those things we need to look forward to because the N200,000 is less than $300. I have countries in Africa that charge $200,000 for an AOC. How far have you gone with the recertification of Lagos and Abuja Airports and the certification of Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu Airport? For certification and recertification of airports, technical inspections took place last year to reconfirm the gaps there and action plans are being developed. Once they are developed and submitted to the NCAA, we will review them and those that are okay, we will go ahead with it and for those that are not okay, we will return them with comments and what is need to be done. Recertification of Lagos and Abuja airports is ongoing; a few issues we need to close, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is working on them. Every two weeks, we do have high level meetings at the NCAA through the Department of Aerodrome and Airspace, they meet and device a mean of resolving the issues. Hopefully, we can get all our international airports certified before the audit. Just recently, an aircraft belonging to Arik Air was vandalised at the airside of the Lagos Airport, how will this affect the impending ICAO Safety audit? For all I can say, investigations are ongoing on the incident, but I won’t say it was vandalism. What happen is that somebody who obviously knew where the aircraft is, somebody who knew obviously what he was doing, went to the E and E2 Compartments, walked in there and removed a component professionally without damaging anything. So, figure out that for yourself. As far as I am concerned, it is an ongoing investigation. So, we will wait for the outcome of the investigation. It is very clear that I cannot go the very technical part of the aircraft and remove something there. I must know something about it and I am not new to the system. Whoever did that job knew what he was doing. The security agencies are investigating the issue. Unfortunately, these issues happen everywhere. It is not the best to happen in your country, but it has already happened and we are investigating it and we will put in measures to ensure that it doesn’t happen again. Can we say the airports are secure? How many aircraft have been vandalised in Nigeria in the past 10 years? Let’s not use a single issue to destroy our country. This is one incident, which seems to have been done by a professional, maybe an insider. Have we had any case of people going to vandalise an aircraft in the last 10 years? This is one case and we should not use it to destroy the reputation of our industry. It appears this was perpetuated by somebody who knew what he was doing and it was not as if somebody broke in from outside and went and vandalised an aircraft. It wasn’t vandalisation . This is a well clean job by someone who knew where to go and what to remove.