ABUJA – Obviously inspired by the month long strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities ASUU, the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) is spoiling for a similar action over alleged recalcitrance of the Federal Government to pay N15billion as revitalisation funds. Smart Olugbeko, President of COEASU in a statement on Tuesday, in Abuja, said it appears government is testing its patience by reneging on meeting a number of demands raised by the union all of which would strengthen teacher education in Nigeria. He threatened that the union will in the next few weeks call the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting to take necessary actions as permissible by the Trade Union Act if government fails to do the needful. Adagbonyi’s Appointment As AAU VC Excites NANS Nigeria Needs New Constitution To Progress – Abayomi Highlighting the grievances of the Union, Olugbeko said in its characteristic disposition to peaceful resolution of issues has between August and December 2021 met with the Minister, the Permanent Secretary, Directors, and other officials of government that have roles in addressing the lingering issues between the Union and the government several times. According to him, the issues of Renegotiation of the 2009 Agreement, the crises being created by the imposition of IPPIS and the release of the N15 billion Revitalisation Fund are critical to development of Colleges of Education in Nigeria and the Union has put these among others in the front burner for government to quickly resolve them. As critical as these issues are, the Federal government has been lackadaisical in resolving them. He said the Federal Government in 2013 constituted a Presidential Committee to assess the needs of Colleges of Education in Nigeria, the Report submitted in 2014 by the Team indicated that the sum of Three Hundred and Ninety One Billion, Eighty Six Million, Seven Hundred and Thirty Eight thousand, Six Hundred and Thirty Six Naira (N391,086,738,636.00), which was later reviewed in 2017 by the Federal Ministry of Education to Four Hundred and Fifty Six Billion, Five Hundred and Ninety-Nine Million, Nine Hundred and Fourteen Naira, Eighteen Kobo (N465,599,691,914.18), would be needed to reposition Colleges of Education in Nigeria for better performance and for national development. However, the Federal Government citing paucity of fund in 2018 agreed to release N15 billion to revitalise Colleges of Education in Nigeria but failed to redeem the plegde. The statement read partly, “COEASU has been consistent in mounting pressure on government to release this fund to colleges to meet their urgent needs that are hampering teaching and learning. POLL “The government has totally abandoned its responsibility of adequately funding teacher education as the government has left Colleges of Education in Nigeria to continue to suffer from infrastructural decay while the running of the Colleges is being done by the paltry Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the Colleges. “This attitude of government has further watered-down standard in our colleges and demotivated both staff and students as there are inadequate lecture rooms, ill-equipped laboratory, obsolete library, and unconducive learning environment. “Government has demonstrated total disrespect for our maturity in handling issue and has mistaken our understanding for weakness. The Union is therefore calling on the Federal Government to quickly commence the renegotiation of the 2009 agreement with the Union and release the N15 billion Revitalisation Fund to our Colleges”.