Despite the antics of his detractors, to all intents and purposes, Sen. Hope Uzodinma has emerged the executive governor of Imo State through what one may call divine and legal proclivities. The indices are there just for the asking. The first is that if God had not permitted it, it would not have happened. It is axiomatic that is far more than the norm, and quite surprisingly, the 4th position in the result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was indubitably announced winner by the Supreme Court. This divine factor attests to why Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, and Sen. Ifeanyi Ararume who scored more than Uzodinma in the result declared by INEC did not take their matter up to the Supreme Court. Again, Uzodinma’s emergence as a candidate in the Imo 2019 governorship tango was an act of providence or a child of necessity. According to the APC director of New Media, Cajetan Akuta: “It was not the issue of zoning but of redemption. In other words, we are talking about a candidate who can beat Okorocha to his own game and at the same time revive and rebuild Imo State and that candidate is the APC hopeful, Uzodinma”. This was before the election. There is therefore nothing more to justify Uzodinma’s divine enablement than the sudden defection of erstwhile PDP lawmakers in the State House of Assembly to Uzodinma’s party, the APC without promptings. As we write, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, the former governor who oversaw the affairs of the state for eight active months is all alone. That is the kernel of the argument. And if, as Edmund Burke the English political philosopher once said, a politician’s platoon is his home-based support, what is Ihedioha’s patent claim to power when his supporters have all fled? For those who think that attacking the Apex Court judges would nudge the cart to their swing, to establish criteria for standards of merit as a basis for selection of individuals qualified to serve on our courts is not only difficult, it is definitionally controversial. The same fact of life applies to an attempt to evaluate a jurist’s performance and to render a judgment in terms of both the jurist-nominator’s perception and the perception of qualified court watchers. Still, establishment of criteria for qualification and selection and for bases for evaluative judgments of performance cannot be escaped. Notwithstanding vast differences in approaches to perceived standards of qualification for judicial office and in ultimate verdicts of performance in that office, any examination of published (or verbalized) analyses demonstrates a remarkable degree of agreement, both as to definitions of what constitutes merit and to on-bench performance judgments. A Nation Of Adulterated Fuel And Adulterated… Okorocha’s Visit And Buhari’s Fight Against Corruption Taken together, Sen. Hope Uzodinma’s coast has continued to be enlarged. Not only have Ndi-Imo, who are globally celebrated for their spirit of enlightenment, embraced him warmly, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Igbo socio-cultural organisation has lent its overwhelming support to him. At a press conference in Owerri the Imo State capital, the apex socio-cultural organisation said it has given one hundred per cent support to Uzodinma’s administration. Condemning in strong terms any form of action geared at destabilising the state, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, through its Imo State chairman, Chief Ezechi Chukwu said that the governor needed the support of Ndi-Imo in order to move the state forward. The organisation consequently upheld strongly, at 360 degrees, the election of Senator Hope Uzodinma as pronounced by the highest court of the land. Onwa should eschew bitterness and rancour, extend the olive branch to the aggrieved parties, assemble his cabinet with tested and trusted hands and deliver the dividends of democracy to the people of Imo. We had advised the new government which has just celebrated two years in office last month that there was nothing that stopped Governor Hope Uzodinma from picking some willing and credible members of the immediate past cabinet of Ihedioha into his cabinet. The only permanent interest should be the overriding good of the people and the overall development of Imo State. It has indeed come to pass. Yet, the cause for joy and jubilation in Imo State today is that, in spite of everything, Sen. Hope Uzodinma has turned Imo State to a construction site. This was exactly what Fashola did in Lagos at a point or what Akpabio did in Akwa Ibom at a point. Whereas Sen. Rochas Okorocha expanded the space for development by demolishing people’s houses, shops and structures, Uzodinma consolidate government’s hold on the state and effected real development of the state. Within the Owerri Capital Territoty, Uzodinma built or rehabilitated Douglas Road to Naze Junction, Links Hotel, Pius Nwoga Road, Hospital Road, Umuguma to High Court Road, Bank Road, Assumpta Avenue, Emmanuel College to Pastoral Centre, Imo Police Headquarters Road, Nekede Old Road Bridge, Amakohia Flyover Brige Road, Bishop Court Roundabout, Eberechi Links end of New Government House Road, Amakohia/Onitsa (DSS) Road, Works Road by Bala Suya, Cherubim Junction to Owerri Club Road, Ahiajoku Centre/Port Harcourt Road, Umezuruike Warehouse Roads, etcetera. The Governor also ordered the State Ministry Works to rehabilitate the following roads: Road Safety-Toronto Orji, Ihite-Ogada-Awka- Emekwukwu Orizu Extension, Umuguma Port Harcourt Road, Holy Rosery International College, Uchenna Bus Stop, Ring Road in Irete, Umuguma last Roundabout, Industrial Layout (Celestine Izunobi Crescent), Nwachukwu Orizu by World Bank Road. During his first term, Uzodinma completed and commissioned about 57 road projects while 25 were near-completion. For the first in many years, Ndi-Imo now have a functional water board which pumps, processes, and distribute potable water to all the nooks and crannies of the state. Even those who did not seem to agree with how Uzodinma emerged as governor of Imo State now agree that what he is doing is exactly what is expected of a formidable government. Uzodinma is serving the people of Imo State diligently to improve their socio-economic wellbeing. POLL The dualisation of the Okigwe/Owerri Road which cuts across the three senatorial zones of the state is a major landmark of the Hope Uzodinma administration. Not only is he constructing roads, Governor Hope Uzodinma is turning dangerous proclivities into harmless channels. There are areas in the state capital and some adjoining communities that massive erosions had cut and sent people parking from their original homes. Now, the story is different. It is interesting to note that the administration has embarked on the construction of a 3 kilometer ballon channel to help de-flood the heavily flooded areas. Many Imolites see Uzodinma as a God-sent who has come to make their state habitable. Even in the area of healthcare, hope is unbeatable. He has given the Imo State University Teaching Hospital in Orlu a facelift. TO BE CONTINUED…