LAGOS – Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has expressed disappointment at a statement credited to former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, on the zoning of the presidency on respect of 2023. The socio-political organisation in a press statement on Monday signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ken Robinson said that it is unfortunate that the former Vice President drew such a conclusion. “He knows his statement is inconsistent with established and justifiable protocols and conventions, which have helped to sustain considerable understanding, peace and stability in the polity. Again, CSO Pressurizes Buhari To Assent To Electoral Act… Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… “The narrative that there is no zoning in the nation’s Constitution is a conscienceless mockery of our democratic evolution, and indeed, the country’s constitution,” PANDEF stated. The statement added, “It bears underscoring that Nigeria’s Constitution, though flawed, has ample provisions that emphasize inclusiveness, fairness and equity. Section 14(3) of the Constitution (as amended) provides that “the composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few States or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that Government or any of its agencies.” The intent and purpose of this section are precise and explicit.” The Niger Delta socio-political organisation stated that zoning and rotation of key political positions in the polity cannot be discarded in a diverse and complex society like Nigeria, particularly, under the prevailing circumstances. PANDEF, further called on all political parties to zone their presidential ticket to the South, stressing that any political party that does otherwise shall not have their support in 2023. “Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and other Northerners expressing interest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 ought to understand that their desire flies in the face of natural justice.” POLL “We implore former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and the other Northerners to shelve their ambitions now and support the emergence of credible individuals from the South as presidential candidates of their various political parties. Anything otherwise would be undignifying and injurious to national concord,” the statement further reads.