***Zoning Of Presidency Tops Discussion MINNA – The National Chairman of the main opposition, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu and some leaders of the party in Niger state yesterday met with former Military President General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) at his hilltop residence in Minna, the state capital. Ayu who came into Minna in the afternoon by air was quickly accompanied to the former President’s house by Mr. Tanko Beji, the state Chairman of the party with other state executive members of the party. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… Other party Chieftains who were on hand to receive the national chairman included; the immediate past Governor of Niger state, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu, Senator Zaynab Kure and the former Minister of Internal Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Tanko. Professor Jerry Gana, the former Minister of Information Minister was also on the delegation to the visit on General Babangida, in what was believed to be a re-union and efforts to build bond of unity as the visit by the PDP National Chairman is bringing together for the first time the warring factions in the state chapter. Former President Babangida and his guest, Iyorchia Ayu later went into a closed door meeting, but the outcome was not made public. Daily Independent however gathered from a source close to the parties that the meeting may not be unconnected with the dust being raised by the agitations for the zoning of the Presidency between north and south ahead of the 2023. The meeting reportedly agreed that the issue of zoning of successor to President Muhammadu Buhari should be suspended for now and all those that have shown interest be allowed to go ahead with campaigns to mobilize Nigerians after which a decision will be taken. POLL Apart from allowing all the candidates to go about their campaigns to test their popularity and acceptability, the source also hinted that they agreed to ‘closely watch’ the steps of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) before taking final decision on the issue. Our correspondent reports that, Senator Iyorchia Ayu who had arrived Minna late afternoon after the meeting with IBB was escorted back to the Minna international airport by party supporters for a return trip back to Abuja.