LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has commended the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for extending a hand of support for two out-of-school girls in the state. The organisation, however, implored him to put all machinery in motion to give effect to the Child Right Act which the state had domesticated more than a decade ago. It stressed that if the law had been earlier implemented, there would not be any need for him to stop his convoy to handle the issue of out-of-school children that he found by the roadside. Mr. Debo Adeniran, CACOL chairman, in a statement issued by Tola Oresanwo, the group’s Director of Administration and Programmes, noted the interest shown by Sanwo-Olu over the plight of two out-of-school girls in the state. It recalled that the media reported that on his way to an official function recently, Sanwo-Olu halted his convoy to attend to a disturbing situation. “It was a sight of two underage girls on an errand for a bean cake vendor during school hours. The girls were expected to be in school. “But, both Amarachi Chinedu, 9, and Suwebat Husseini, 12, were forced to skip school by their parents in order to serve some domestic assistance,” CACOL stressed. According to the group, “The girls were going to deliver buckets of peeled beans and pepper to a grinder when the governor sighted them at Anthony Village area. POLL “It was a glance that presented a discomforting image for Sanwo-Olu, who revved his convoy to a stop to find out the reason the girls were not in school. The governor stressed that his encounter with the girls left his heart bleeding. Sanwo-Olu, at the scene, told the girls he would personally take up the responsibility for their education and upbringing, promising to enrol them in school to continue with their education. It added: “We will like to commend Governor  Sanwo-Olu for taking this bold step aimed at returning these out-of-school girls to school. “We believe there are many Amarachis and Suwebats out there who are not that lucky to encounter the Governor. To this set of children, something drastic ought to be done to save them from the scourge of illiteracy. “We also believe that if the Child Rights Acts, which Lagos state has domesticated since more than a decade ago, if fully implemented, there would not have been any out-of-school child in the state because it would have been an offence for parents to engage their children in economic activities or for any child to roam the streets during school hours.”