**Says His Track Record Earns Him The Position ABUJA – A group, Northern Professionals Forum (NPF) has has asked the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, to contest the Presidential elections, saying that he has done enough in the State to earn him a place as the next President of Nigeria. The group said that the Governor has in the last seven years transformed the State in terms of security of lives and property, infrastructure, human capital development and socio-economic development. Enugu LG Polls: APGA Chairman Charges ENSIEC On Free, Fair… FCT Council Polls: Police Withdraw Earlier Announced Curfew Noting that the feat is as a result of Okowa’s professional background, NPF said that the Delta State Governor will also bring his track record to bear at the national as President of Nigeria. A statement on Thursday in Kano which was made available to journalists, noted that “governance cannot be left in hands of those who least understand what infrastructural, human capital and socio-economic development was all about in the guise of politics, adding that Okowa should throw his hat into the ring, now that the opportunity beckons.” Made up of professionals from different fields, the statement was signed by the group’s National Coordinator, Saleh Mohammed and its Secretary, Hajia Hannatu Garba, and two other executives, pointed out that it serves the interest of Nigerians if the visionary leadership of Okowa was translated at the Presidency. They further described Senator Okowa as “highly urbane for protecting non-indigenes in Delta State for the past seven years, a situation, the group posited has given the Governor deep and genuine contacts across the north and other regions of the country. “As professionals, we haven’t lost touch with Senator Ifeanyi Okowa’s track record of huge infrastructural development as governor of Delta State in the last seven years. POLL “We see 2023 general election as opportunity for him to contest presidency notwithstanding those who have indicated interest for the plum job. “Okowa’s blend of professional and political ideas would be a nexus for unity of the nation and given his humane nature who is capitally detribalised in handling the State affairs, it is incumbent on us as a northern-based group to call on him to contest.” This is even as they called on like minds across other zones to raise their voices on drafting Delta governor into the presidential race.