A man identified as Victor Dadeowo has allegedly stabbed to death his lover, Ajoke Esomojumi, who sells alcohol drinks packaged in sachets on Ikorodu Road, Lagos, during a disagreement between the duo. According to an online news platform, the disagreement started between the lovers last Sunday evening while they were at her shop. It was gathered that the Esomojumi and customer were exchanging banter during which the customer jokingly smacked her buttocks, an act which didn’t go down well with Dadeowo. Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC Accident Claims Six In Abuja It was reported that the incident led to a fight between the lovers and he complained till she closed the shop that night. Dadeowo after the argument followed Esomojumi to her residence and when the argument dragged to midnight he allegedly stabbed her in the stomach. According to a source, the neighbours warned the woman of imminent danger as the dispute intensified. He said, “The woman was no longer married and lived alone. She and the man had been in a relationship for some time and he usually went to her shop. That Sunday, I learnt a customer while playing with her in his presence smacked her buttocks and he picked an offence. “He accused the woman of being unfaithful and they quarrelled over it. It was when they returned home that night and started quarrelling again that people knew the cause of their disagreement. When things were getting out of hand, neighbours advised her to be careful and that the man could kill her.” POLL “It was was around 2am (on Monday) that she screamed and some people rushed out to find out what the matter was. By the time they got to her apartment, she was in a pool of blood.” It was reported that the incident led to her death and afterwards her son, who resides within the neighbourhood was informed of the development. The case was said to have been reported to the police at the Owode Onirin division who arrested the suspect. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, who confirmed the alleged murder, said the Dadeowo had been transferred to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, for further investigation. He said, “On January 31, around 2.30am, the woman was stabbed in the stomach by her lover, Victor Dadeowo inside the victim’s room. The incident happened during a heated argument between her and her male lover. 2023: Nigeria Owes South-East So Much, Should Consider Region… Oyo Govt Designs 20-Year Development Plan “Following a report made at the Owode Onirin Police Division, detectives immediately swung into action, visited the scene and arrested the suspect in his hideout. The body of the deceased was recovered and deposited at the Yaba Mainland Hospital morgue for autopsy. The case has since been transferred to the SCIID for diligent investigation on the directive of the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi.”      