ABUJA – Hon Abdullahi Adamu Candido, the outgoing Abuja e3 Area Council (AMAC) chairman, has asked voters in the Area Council to vote for any party and candidate of their choice. Candido who served out two terms as Chairman of AMAC gave the charge after voting at his Polling unit 002, Jiwa Ward, AMAC, stating that the people have a choice to decide which party or Candidates to vote for. Interestingly, Candido did seek voter support for the All Progressives Congress candidate, Muritala Karshi who emerged ahead of his preferred candidate for Chairman, Alhassan Suleiman Gwagwa. Court Upholds Enoh’s Election As APC Governorship Candidate In… Vote-buying, Selling Will Undermine Democratic Process – Female… Candido, who lamented the supreme court ruling that affected his preferred candidate, advised voters at the ward to vote for the candidate and party of their choice. He said: “I am happy that the voting is going smoothly. The officials are on the ground and the voters are comporting themselves. Before noon, the situation will improve. I am glad that democracy is being deepened. “I advise voters to be calm and vote for their preferred candidates or party of their choices, according to their consciences. Nobody should feel intimidated. Vote for your preferred candidates for true service to be consolidated so that people can take up from where we stopped. “At the end of the voting process, we can determine if the judgement affected the morale of our people. We refused to allow the judgement to threaten us because we believe it’s democracy. It was a rape of justice. We accepted it in good faith, but there is a need for the judiciary to improve “The APC is a great party and I am glad for our numerous achievements. Though the supreme court ruling affected many things, we are consoled by the fact that APC has what it takes to win the election. I will also advise the judiciary to sit up”,he said. POLL Meanwhile, the FCT Council Election witnessed a large turnout of voters in some area councils like Bwari and AMAC, especially in the Kabusa area.