Roy Keane has backed Manchester United to claim fourth place in the Premier League this season, insisting his old side will be ‘fine’. United gave themselves another boost in their race for the top four on Sunday after beating Leeds 4-2 in a chaotic game at Elland Road. Having taken a 2-0 lead before the break, the visitors quickly found themselves pegged back as Leeds struck twice in the space of a minute in the second-half, before goals from Fred and Anthony Elanga wrapped up a second consecutive win for United. Buhari Demands Return Of More Nigeria’s Artefacts From Abroad 2023: South-South Lawmakers Endorse Yahaya Bello For President The victory proved timely, coming a day after Tottenham gave their own hopes of finishing fourth a huge lift following their superb 3-2 win over Manchester City. United’s win sees them retain fourth spot after the weekend’s games and they’ve extended their advantage to four points over West Ham and Arsenal, with Wolves a further two points back while Spurs sit seven points behind. Arsenal and Tottenham do still have three games in hand, while Wolves hold two, meaning United still need to rely on results elsewhere if they are to claim the final Champions League spot. However, former United captain Keane believes they’ll face no problems in winning the race for the top four. “I think United will be fine for fourth, I really do,” Keane told Sky Sports. POLL “Obviously there’s been a lot of noise about players wanting to leave and contract situations with [Paul] Pogba and Jesse Lingard and people like that. “Focus on the next few months, it’s a big few months for Man United. Try and get fourth, they’ve got a big European game coming up, focus on that then regroup again in the summer regarding the manager. They’ll be looking at recruitment. “But keep your heads, show your quality like they did today [against Leeds] and they should be okay.” The top four race could be set for a pivotal week, with two of the contenders facing each other in midweek. Arsenal host Wolves on Thursday night, a day after Tottenham travel to Burnley, and United will no doubt be keeping a close eye on proceedings as they look to keep a gap between themselves and the chasing pack.