Prof. Mansur Matazu, Director-General of Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMET), last week in Abuja, presented the 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP) to the public. In attendance were no fewer than five ministers, including Sen. Hadi Sirika, Minister of Aviation and Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture among numerous stakeholders. In a brief interview with OLUSEGUN KOIKI, Matazu speaks on the success of the past presentations and the plan for the year. Excerpts: Sir, you just did public presentation of the 2022 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP) for Nigerians. What is your assessment of previous predictions? The Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP), is one of our major flagship products that we release to the public because essential number of socio economic activities relies on the credibility of climate and we have been doing this for the last 10 years. Nnaji Proposes Provision Of Defibrillators At Airports To… DG NCAA, AIB Commissioner, Others Emerge Winners At Travellers… Of recent, we have even gone far to down scale this focus to various Local and State Government levels. And the major sectors of the economy – agriculture, water resources, health, aviation and other forms of transportation, including construction and insurance are major consumers of this products and the feedback we have been getting have been tremendous. We have gotten feedback from the various sections of this country inform of goodwill messages and the testimonials and the positive implications of this very vital information in form of forecast and advisory. This is really the mandates of this organisation and we aim to do more especially with the positive feedback that we are getting and also, we are diversifying tailor-made based on the requests by the various sectors and users of the service. To make this flexible that is why we have come out with an innovation of mobile phone app that people can access in various platforms and also available in all the social media platforms and we also have an upgraded website that people can access these information and also get the feedback from the people, which can help us also to do more. POLL Is NiMET thinking of Commercialising this service in the future? Sustainability is very key, even though weather service is seen as a public good, but introducing a refined product and enhanced services, it requires capital intensive and overlay of personnel and as a result of this, some of our services that are tailor-made, we are beginning to charge a token. This token in our commercialisation, we don’t call it selling, but we describe it as cost recovery charges so that we will be able to sustain the operations and also be able to do more. This one could be in form of data and also we share revenue with the service providers. So, this is a new area that we have started and that is why we are using the mobile app platform to create a gateway in order for us to realise additional revenue to be able to sustain our operations and also support the Nigerian economy by contributing to the national treasury. AIB-N To Establish Investigation Mobile Office United Nigeria Airlines To Set Up MRO Centre At Enugu Airport Sir, can you simplify the 2022 rain forecast to a layman? What should the people be expecting in terms of rain this year? Actually, it is a normal year with some abnormalities within the season, but generally speaking, the rain will come early and as we have seen in the next few weeks, we will establish this and presently, we have been experiencing occasional showers along the coast line, but the planting period in the costal delta area will be around February 28 to March 4 and that means the rain would come. By April and May, the rain will be established in the central states while between June to July, the rain will be fully established in the extreme northern states. Generally speaking, it’s a normal year with some abnormalities in terms of amount of rain.