It was Plato who said, “Every heart sings a song, incomplete, until another heart whispers back. Those who wish to sing always find a song. At a touch of a lover everyone becomes a poet.” Eje’s soulful yearning to be with a woman that completes him in totality led to his quick decision to replace his ex with another woman. Being the kind of man who chose to be faithful in his relationships, he thought it right to move on with another lady just a month after he broke up with his ex. According to him, the well behaved girl he met during their youth service was no longer the good girl he knew. She betrayed him with another man and used her parents as a cover-up for not accepting his proposal. I’m Thinking Of Moving On, Should I? My Girlfriend Flirts With Anything On Pants “I am from Benue and my fiancée is from Anambra State. We met each other during our youth service. And we got connected immediately and became friends. After the one year service, we decided to move the relationship to the next level. I encouraged her to tell her parents about us. But since she went back to her parent’s house in Anambra, it’s been one problem after another. Her parents want her to marry from their place. “I have invited her several times to Lagos but she said her parents did not allow her to come. They said I will get her pregnant. And that has never been my intention. I have never had sex, and she knew about it. Even when we were in Lagos serving in the same local government, she did visit me but I never made any sexual advances. The least we ever did was to kiss. She would always urge me to try it out with her but I would tell her I was not ready. This was a vow I made to God that I would not have a taste of a woman till I married her in the right way. I wondered why she was hesitant in telling her parents the kind of person I was. “At 29 years, she was still afraid of her parents. Even when I called her, if her parents were around her, she won’t pick my calls. I began to think if it’s just her parents or she was hiding something from me. “I am a kind of guy that values relationships. Since I have been dating, I have dated just two girls. Each one lasted long. I had made up my mind that she was the one I would marry. Her behaviour assured me that she was for keeps. She was a good cook and very homely. I don’t really prioritize a woman’s physical looks – she should not just be beautiful outside but inside, too. “She was a godly girl though she was not really blessed with physical beauty. I loved her all the same. She had this calm way of talking and was very selfless. Her inner beauty drew my soul to hers. Then people always wondered what I saw in her. In fact, my sister told me she doesn’t deserve me. But beyond her physical looks she was an angel, and I think it was only I who saw this other side of her beauty. I was happy to showcase her to the world. I displayed her pictures on my social media handles, but she didn’t display mine. She told me it was because of her parents. POLL “Now, I went to her place last Christmas; she knew I was coming. She came to pick me from the park but she refused to take me to see her parents as earlier agreed. She took me to an eatery. From the park to the eatery her phone kept ringing and she refused to pick it. She said it was her mother calling. When we got to the eatery the phone kept ringing in her bag. I asked her to pick it. When she brought the phone out, I quickly glanced at the name calling – it was a number she saved as ‘honey’. I became angry. I jerked the phone from her hand. When it rang again I picked it. She tried to stop me but it was too late. It was a guy, somebody she was about to marry. Which means she had been using her parents to lie. I got angry and left her. Meanwhile, there is a lady who has shown interest in me but because of my fiancée I had avoided her. I am thinking of starting a relationship with her but I don’t know if it’s too early to go into another relationship.” Dear Eje, there is no fixed number to wait after a breakup. Your readiness to go into another pool of love matters is largely dependent on your state of mind and how serious your previous relationship was. It’s always advisable to wait till you are emotionally stable to jump into another relationship. And I hope you are not interested in the new lady just to distract you from the breakup or to fill a hole. However, while a casual relationship with the opposite sex after a breakup may not be a bad thing, if you’re looking to get into another serious relationship, you’re probably better off waiting until you’re more or less over with your previous one. Maybe after three months or more. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.