***Says More Than Four Millions Nigerians Are Carriers IBADAN – A Professor and sickle cell advocator, Prof. Adeyinka Falusi has called on government to prioritize the healthcare of people with sickle cell as the current number of the carriers is beyond four million in the country and may likely increase if adequate step is not taking to curb the menace. Falusi said, “more than four million Nigerians are sickle cell carriers, adding that the number might likely increase by 2050, if nothing was done on the issue. How Nigeria Can Reduce Over N200bn Annual Importation On… High Ratio Of Rural Dwellers, Illiteracy Fueling Cancer Cases Prof. Adeyinka Falusi, who is a Sickle Cell Advocate and Founder, Sickle Cell Hope Alive Foundation (SCHAF), speaking at a public presentation of book titled “Phases: Memoirs of Sickle Cell Amazon” authored by Dr Mariam Lawal in Ibadan the Capital City of Oyo state on Saturday, charged all the three tiers of government to facilitate early diagnosis of sickle cell carriers and prevent complications. Falusi also called on sickle cell carriers not to be discouraged by the disorder, urging them to dream big and associate with people that would motivate them. She maintained that early diagnosis of the disorder would facilitate treatment, care, reduce complications and as well, reduce the death rate of sickle cell carriers. She said that poverty, lack of insurance, lack of awareness and medical care was responsible for the increase of this disorder. Falusi urged Nigerians to know their genotypes to guide against being a sickle cell carrier. POLL The Book was reviewed by Dr Taiwo Kotila, who is the Head, Haematology Department in UCH. In his Dr. Kotola said that the book, which contained 27 Chapters and 111 pages, needed to be read by all in order to know how to assist and cope with the disorder. Kotila called on the government to assist people with the disorder for early diagnosis and prevent complications. Also in her contributions at the book launch event, the wife of Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Prof. Amudalat Olaniyan, called for discouragement of people with the trent of AS genotype from marrying one another to avoid given birth to sickle cell carriers. She said, “It is unfortunate that we still find ourselves in this disorder; many had lost friends to sickle cell disorder and some of them are very brilliant, you can imagine losing people of that nature. Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) ‘O Ta Lenu’: MAGGI Show To Encourage Young Nigerians Explore… “We must always create awareness so as to discourage those that are not compatible from marrying themselves,” Olaniyan said. The author of the book, who is also a sickle cell carrier, said the inspiration to write the book came five years ago so as to share to the public and sickle cell carriers her experiences of coping with the disease. Lawal, who is the Deputy Director, Department of Pharmacy in UCH, said that the book would be an encourager to sickle cell carriers. She said that sickle cell carriers could prosper in life in spite of their challenges. Lawal said there was need for greater awareness and understanding of the disorder, which according to her, was still quite poor among the general population in Nigeria. “Sickle cell warriors constitute a significant percentage of the population who are prone to developing one other disability or the other due to associated complications of the disorder. “Some people perceive warriors as though, they are already on death row, while other individuals believe that they cannot achieve meaningful gain and growth in life,” she said. The author said that sickle cell warriors required empathy and understanding and not sympathy. She appreciated her husband and parents for the support and care given to her to cope with the disorder.