IBADAN – A group within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, The United Front (TUF), on Thursday alerted security agencies over the alleged plan by Chairman of National Communications (NCC), Professor Adeolu Akande and former TESCOM chairman, Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi, to instigate violence and security breach in Otu, the headquarters of Itesiwaju Local Government Area of Oyo State. As the Group called on President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), and the constituted law enforcement agencies to call them into order as alleged that they have perfected plans to instigate violence in Otu, the home country of Hon. Omodewu on Thursday, February 10, 2022, and they should be held responsible in case of any breakdown of law and order. The group made the distress call to Nigeria law enforcement agencies on Thursday through a statement released by its Public Relations Officer, Mr Dele Oluwanisola. 2023: A’Ibom Stakeholders Urge Akpanudoedehe To Run For… Basketball Africa League Announces Teams As Season Commences… TUF alleged that the APC chieftains are resorting to blackmail and violence because they are embittered with the inauguration of Hon. Isaac Omodewu as State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). TUF alleged further that former governor Ibikunle Amosun has not relented in fueling crisis in Oyo APC. According to the statement, “We recall how Amosun of sponsored Unity Forum through Prof. Adeolu Akande divided the party into intractable fragments prior to 2019 elections. Having failed in Ogun State APC Congresses and his expansionist agenda in Oyo State, which is the imposition of former Unity Forum leader, Alhaji Abu on the majority of APC members in Oyo State, former governor Amosun and Prof. Adeolu are believed to be working for Governor Seyi Makinde of PDP in order to destabilise Oyo APC. “Our findings revealed that Prof.Adeolu is working for 2023 presidential ambition of his boss, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. The NCC chairman has saddled with the responsibility of destabilising the party in the state so as to pave way for PDP in 2023. “We are reminding President Buhari and APC National secretariat that former governor Amosun, Prof. Adeolu, Alhaji Abu and other Unity Forum leaders enthroned the PDP government in Oyo State. Therefore, all anti-party activities to destabilise Oyo APC again will be resisted. POLL “Prof. Adeolu’s frenetic efforts to subvert the will of the people is foolhardy and compares to a fabled tale of a man attempting to eclipse the moon with hands. The fact that Hon. Omodewu as State Chairman of Oyo APC is irreversible. “While we restate our position that Prof. Adeolu and Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi are the centrifuge of crisis in Oyo APC, we call on President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), and the constituted law enforcement agencies to note that they have perfected plans to instigate violence in Otu, the home country of Hon. Omodewu on Thursday, February 10, 2022, and they should be held responsible in case of any breakdown of law and order,” the statement concluded.