ABAKALIKI – The Ebonyi State Com­mand of Ebubeagu South East Security Outfit has arrested 12 suspected drug syndicate who allegedly deal in hard drugs, popularly known as Mkpurummiri (Meth­amphetamine) in the state. Parading them Thursday at the Command’s Office, Abakali­ki, the State Security Consultant, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, told Journalists that they were arrested by Ebubeagu personnel who raided their hideouts follow­ing a tip-of on their activities. Emegha said two live cartridg­es, hard drugs, among other in­criminating items were also re­covered from the suspects. 17 Roasted In Ogun Tanker Fire Disaster Court Remands Two teenagers For Gang-Raping Female To Death In… He also disclosed that some of the drug dealers were still at large. He urged the members of the public to always avail the Ebubeagu security outfit useful information that would lead to the arrest of criminal elements in the state, stressing that secu­rity was everybody’s business. Emegha said, “As we have always said, security is every­body’s business. We got a hint yesterday on a gang that specia­lises on these latest hard drugs, Mkpurummiri, and you can also see live ammunition here. “And I have to arrange these guys (Ebubeagu) to go to the community to see if we can get the gang. Then, very luckily, we caught them with all these items. “Twelve of them are here, though, there are still some of them that are at large, but we promise strongly that we will do everything possible to get those at large. POLL “I want to use the opportuni­ty to call on the public to give information because it is very vital, and key to security. If we get the information, we will do the needful. “If you help us on information, we help to sanitise the society and with what you have seen now, we are going to hand over to the police to do the needful. “As you can see, nobody will say Ebubeagu is not giving help­ing hands to the security agents, but some people talk trash.” One of the suspects, Orji Kalu, who hails from Afikpo South Lo­cal Government Area, said, he was formally a dealer of Mkpu­rumiri, but had stopped the busi­ness long ago.