Rotary Club of Ota on Saturday 19, February, organised her annual peace and conflict prevention and resolutionprogramme at the Olota’s palace to identify the underlying causes of conflicts and to affirm the commitment of the club to peacebuilding and addressing new challenges in Ota and its environs. The occasion also presented the club with the opportunity of educating attendees about its objectives, especially the premium value it places on peace which is said to be the cornerstone of its mission. Speaking on the importance of the programme, Rtn. Olawale Hassan, change-maker president of the club, said, “Today’s programme is one of the seven pillars of Rotary Club, organised to make people understand how to live in peace and harmony because if we embrace peace, there will be development. Ugwuanyi’s humility, Penchant For Peace Will Take Him To… Peace, Security: Nasarawa Assembly Set To Create Additional… “Our programme today is not targeted at any incident or problem in any particular area of Ota, but it’s organised in line with our area of focus, particularly in the months of February.” He added. He pointed out that there are crises even in the family, but this type of programme will make them realise there’s nothing like living in peace. He went further to echo his achievements since assuming the leadership of the club, including the provision of scholarships, the introduction of reading culture in schools through provision of books and equipping students with skills of converting waste to wealth among others. In his submission, CDR. Ajibade Adekunle, Area Commander, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, who is the first guest speaker, said, “In my profession as a Traffic Manager and Safety, we are more concerned with the resolution of bedlam issues as we sometimes find on our roads and highways. During these times we have a near war situation on the highways, tensions are high, people are stuck on a spot longer than necessary and we have drivers trying to manoeuvre their vehicles brush others, leading to skirmishes. POLL This is where the skill of conflict resolution is deployed and brought to bear to ensure that the issues don’t escalate beyond control. We have various real-life situations during our field operations where we had to settle brawling adults on the road who engage in fisticuffs over sometimes minor crashes. There are times, we also have traffic offenders attacking our men on duty to the point of inflicting injuries on them. So, part of our operations includes training on conflict resolution, encouraging our officers to engage more on enlightenment, training and sensitisation of the motoring public to maintain sanity on our roads which we all know is a catalyst for rapid economic development. Pastor Engineer Oluwatobi Vincent Olisa, CEO Vinot International Limited, said, “Peace is not automatic, it has to be strategic and planned, because a peaceful society is one that endures, tolerates and has mutual respect for one another.” ANI Partners UNIC, Peace Shapers To Train Youths On Conflict… SSANU President Preaches Peace, Love Among Nigerians At… He added that without peace, society cannot develop, no commercial activities can take place, but infrastructural depletions, as we find in Bornu state. Alhaji Umar Bashir Femi, Chief Imam, Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, appreciated the fact that the area is not faced with herdsmen and farmers clashes but land grabbing activities leading to crisis and unrest. This is not peculiar to thugs alone but the government are also involved, reference to what happened in Magodo on the pretext to use it for public good only to share it among themselves and their cronies, causing uproar and unrest. Alhaji Femi stressed that poor infrastructural development, especially the roads will always cause unending traffic snarls, crashes and circumvention of traffic regulations. The result is chaos, public demonstrations and agitations. He said, “Wrong parenting is the foundation of a number of societal conflicts starting with the picking of a wrong partner, coupled with the rat race of fending for the family, making parents to abandon the primary responsibility of proper parenting, resulting in badly trained children who constitute themselves as a nuisance in the society.” Rtn Salau Funke Doris, the award-winning past president of Rotary Club Ota, in her closing remarks, said, “My gratitude and heartfelt thanks goes to everyone present here, especially, the Kabiyesi, the Ajana of Ijana who ably represented the Olota of Ota and our distinguished guest speakers. According to her, Oba Abdulkabir Lanlege is a lover of peace who welcomes both indigenes and non-indigenes to the town and provides them with the leverage to pursue their legitimate businesses in his domain in the atmosphere of peace and tranquillity. “We believe that it is when people work together to create peace in their communities that change can also be effected globally. Our commitment to peacebuilding today responds to new challenges, how we can make the greatest possible impact and achieve our vision of making lasting change.