BENIN – Concerned Edo Citizens Forum (CECF) has called on the 14 law makers elect who it said deliberately refused to make themselves available for inauguration to seek for political solution to their present predicament by immediately embracing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as their new party so that the issue could be resolved under the umbrella. CECF in a statement signed by its convener, Comrade Roy Oribhabor and made available to newsmen in Benin on Tuesday stated that the defection of the 14 assembly members elect to the PDP will be a starting process for the settlement. According to him, “It is pertinent to call on the 14 law makers elect who deliberately refused to make themselves available for inauguration to embrace political solution by defecting to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as such movo will be a starting process for the amicable settlement of the imbroglio. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… “Politics has come and gone therefore, decamping to PDP will create an easy platform for the 14 assembly members elect to table their issue at the party level where leaders of the party will take the matter up with all stakeholders. “After politics come development, we strongly appeal to them to consider this option, now that they are convinced that Political solution is the only way forward”, he said. CECF leader also commended governor Godwin Obasaki for placing Edo state on what he described as “fast lane” interms of development. Oribhabor said, “After critical evaluation of the present administration in Edo State under the leadership of Mr. Godwin Obaseki vis a vis the management of resources, infrastructural development, human capacity building and appointment of Political aides, we hereby come to a humble conclusion that, Edo State is doing well under his leadership. “We call on Edo people to continue to support and cooperate with the government so that the governor will continue to deliver on his electoral promises accordingly. POLL “As concerned citizens and major stakeholder in the development of Edo State, we are proud to associate with the Governor so far to rewrite and position Edo State for greatness, just as we commend his style of leadership. “We wish to also, commend Edo State House of Assembly for the supportive roles with sincere regards to the Speaker who has demonstrated uncommon legislative prowess for the betterment of Edo people “We are all Edo people, therefore, progress and greatness of Edo State is Paramount now in our political development as a people. “We also wish to call on all the commissioners to be loyal and dedicated to duties and not to be carried away with the position but cooperate with his excellency who is committed and poised to see a better Edo State” he declared.