Manchester United are on red alert after Erik ten Hag has been left upset by Marc Overmars’ sudden Ajax exit on Sunday. United plan to appoint Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s permanent successor this summer, and Ten Hag could be weighing up his options following Overmars’ departure. After crunch talks with club CEO Edwin van der Sar, the 48-year-old resigned as Ajax’s ‘director of football affairs’. He had sent several ‘inappopropiate messages’ to female colleagues ahead of his exit midway through the season. West Ham Placed £200m On Declan Rice To Ward Off Top-Four Rivals… For The First Time, Man City’s Revenue Exceeds Man Utd’s Ajax lead PSV by five points at the Dutch Eredivisie summit this season, but Overmars shock resignation is a hammer blow. And according to The Star, Ten Hag is now thought to be contemplating whether he will continue in Amsterdam. The loyal coach has been at the helm for almost five seasons and enjoyed a strong working relationship with Overmars. His exploits with Ajax in recent years, domestically and in Europe, have seen him linked to several heavyweights across the continent. Although Ten Hag’s bond with Overmars and the club have fought off interest so far, he is ‘upset’ by the former’s sudden absence in the boardroom. POLL And he could now decide that this year is the right time to part ways with Ajax and venture into a new challenge. Current United interim manager Ralf Rangnick will help the club identify the perfect candidate to enter the dugout next season and beyond. Rangnick is set to begin a two-year consultancy role at Old Trafford in the summer and is interestingly a big fan of Ten Hag. However, the Dutchman is part of a five-man shortlist for the permanent job, including Rangnick. The German coach has struggled to impress the United hierarchy, though, and Ten Hag is thought to be a leading contender along with Mauricio Pochettino. Man Utd 0-1 Wolves: Rough Times For Ralf Martial Wishes To Leave Man-Utd In January, Says Agent Since becoming PSG manager, Pochettino has endured a testing time, and reports in France claim he will leave at the end of the season. Many believe the potential domino effect that would see Zinedine Zidane become PSG boss and Pochettino leave for United makes too much sense. And it’s no secret that the former Tottenham Hotspur head coach has admirers at Old Trafford, including Sir Alex Ferguson. But Overmars’ Ajax exit has undoubtedly made Ten Hag more attainable, should he become United’s first-choice managerial candidate.