Diogo Dalot has explained that he has been ‘stepping up’ his preparation for matches and training over the last year which has led to him hitting a great run of form. Dalot rarely got a look in under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, which led to him joining AC Milan on loan last season, but has been given a solid run of starts in the team by new interim manager Ralf Rangnick. The right-back has taken the opportunity with both hands and, even when Manchester United on a whole haven’t, has been playing very well and keeping £50million signing Aaron Wan-Bissaka resigned to the bench. Klopp Urges Complete Focus On Leeds Before Cup Final Confirmed Man United XI Vs Leeds Dalot has revealed that an improvement in his preparations off the pitch has helped him perform on it. “Since I started playing professional football, I always try to keep my routine, not just mentally but physically as well, to be able to be at my best level to perform,” he told United’s in-house media. “Especially last season and this season, I’ve been stepping up my level in terms of preparing for training and for games. “Whether it’s nutrition, sleeping or whether it’s beats [music] before and after training, I would say this has been my biggest support outside of the pitch for me to be able to perform on the pitch. “I always try to keep my routines there so I can be completely ready to play.” POLL Dalot also said that he is continuing to work on improving his left foot to make him an even better asset going forward. “Yeah,” he added when asked if shooting with his left foot is something he has been working on. “especially these two or three seasons, I’ve been starting to play as left-back many times so that helped me to improve my left foot. “It’s always something I try to improve as well but playing actually on the left brought me that ability to work a little bit more on the left foot and it’s getting a little bit more comfortable for me to play with my left foot. “Obviously, being on the right, if you have that capacity of coming inside to try to whether it’s shoot, play or cross from the left foot, I think it’s an extra advantage for me. I always try to work on that.”