UYO – Barely 30 days into office as Acting Chairman of Mkpat Enin Local Government Council of Akwa Ibom on the mandate of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Marcy Bassey has given a facelift to the council secretariat. Apart from the entrance and parameter fence which now wear a new look, the Acting Chairman is also embarking on a massive renovation of Ekong Sampson hall, a major rallying point of the people of the area, which had since been in a dilapidated state. Conducting newsmen round the council which now bubbles with various construction and renovation activities on Friday, Hon. Bassey said her goal is to provide a serene work environment for the workforce in the area. FCT Council Poll: Abuja Indigenes Commend INEC, Minister For… 2023: Group Gives Jite Brown 4-Week Ultimatum To Declare For… She told newsmen that she has also concluded plans to furnish offices for supervisors and Councillors who hitherto had no furnished offices to deliver their mandate to the people. She hinted that already acquired furniture was on its way to the council secretariat. To provide a conducive environment for the traditional institution in the area, the Acting Chairman has within her few days in office relocated the Royal Fathers from a canteen to a befitting council donated to them by ExxonMobil, but under lock for years now. The Educationist who still operates from her original office as Vice Chairman of the council said her decision to devote her temporary stay on the council’s top job to massive turn around was in fulfilment of some of her major dreams and desires for the council area. While thanking her team for partnering in the development of the area, the Acting Chairman who has also constructed and beautifully displayed signage at the entrance of the road leading to the council area said the achievements were from the allocation to Mkpat Enin. “I have been a part of the system which came in Dec 7, 2020. I am sensitive to aesthetes. I felt these things needed to be done. some places were eyesore. so when the opportunity came, I had to strike.” POLL “I have the best of key players with over 70 percent being women, they are always available. Women can truly work as a team. I have to give it up to the women so that posterity would open more doors for us women. “When you have a plan, your drive is regulated. Its all about determination and planning. I’m an educationist, and the quality of a teacher must come into play. A teacher should be a good leader, a good follower and a fast learner”. Listing some of the areas touched during the ongoing renovation exercise she said: “Ekong Sampson unity Hall plays a major role in the lives of Mkpat Enin people. The Hall was an eyesore before now, we are working round the clock to turn it around, to give the people a decent place to hold meetings. “For the entrance, we needed to replace it with the colour of Mkpat Enin. The signage, we needed to use that to reintroduce the secretariat. security post, to control influx of persons. Generator House was completely dilapidated, and repairs of the power house is to ensure the council is powered beyond the Chairman’s office. ‘The Traditional Rulers Council is ExxonMobil’s project but was not fully completed. The royal fathers had no place to stay. so we negotiated for the keys and did electricals and few other finishing works. 2023: APC Executives, Legislature, Chieftains Meet In Lagos To… Saraki Canvasses Release Of Ebonyi PDP Spokesman, Nwoba “The main administrative block is more like a living room, work had started so we needed to complete it. walking into a serene council secretariat gives me peace of mind. We have just ordered furniture for nine supervisors and 30 councilors Bassey who pledged to further expand the renovation works depending on the availability of resources, also used the occasion to assure Mkpat Enin Children of a befitting stadium to celebrate Children’s day, come May 27.