Excerpts Of Press Briefing By Mr. Patrick Areghan, Head Of National Office (HNO) LAGOS – The examination was conducted at the same time throughout the five (5) member countries, including Nigeria, using one and the same International Timetable. The conduct of the examination took place from Friday, November 12, 2021 to Wednesday, December 22, 2021. Coordination of Examiners and Marking of Candidates’ Scripts were carried out at Seven (7) selected Marking Venues spread across the country, from January 13 – 28, 2022. A total of Two Thousand, Two Hundred and Fifty-Five (2,255) Examiners participated in the Coordination and Marking Exercise. Exam Malpractice: WAEC’s Nigeria Examinations Committee… WAEC: Heavy Sanctions Await Perpetrators Of Exam Malpractice You would recall that during the release of the results of the WASSCE for School Candidates, 2021, I informed you that some schools in the Southeast were unable to write some papers due to the prevailing insecurity in that area then. However, I am delighted to inform you that the affected Candidates sat the WASSCE for Private Candidates, 2021-Second Series, pro-bono, to enable them to remedy the missed papers. It is noteworthy to state here that the examination was yet again conducted under the un-abating COVID-19 atmosphere and I am happy to report that there was no untoward episode throughout the duration of the examination. I wish to extend my profound gratitude to all the Supervisors, Invigilators, Custodians, Examiners and other Ad-hoc personnel for their contributions towards the successful conduct of the examination and marking of scripts. Our sincere appreciation goes to the officials of the Federal and State Ministries of Education, Chairman and Members of the Nigeria Administrative and Finance Committee of WAEC, all retired WAEC staff, ANCOPPS, the Nigeria Police and other Security Agencies, for their assistance and cooperation during the conduct of the examination. We are grateful to the schools that availed the Council the use of their facilities, even when it was not a School Candidates examination. POLL Gentlemen of the media, with all the processes leading to the release of results completed, it is now my pleasure to announce the release of the results of candidates that sat the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for Private Candidates, 2021-Second Series in Nigeria. A total of Fifty-Two thousand, Nine Hundred and Seven Three (52,973) candidates registered for the examination.  Of the number that registered, Fifty-One Thousand, Four Hundred and Forty-Four (51,444) candidates sat the examination. I also wish to report that a total of One Hundred and Thirty One (131) candidates with varying degrees of Special Needs, were registered for the examination. Out of this number, Ten (10) were visually challenged, Nine (9) had impaired hearing; Eight (8) had low vision; Four (4) were spastic cum mentally challenged, and Three (3) were physically challenged. All these candidates with special needs were adequately provided for in the administration of the examination. The results of these candidates have also been processed and are being released along with those of other candidates. Of the total number of Fifty One Thousand, Four Hundred and Forty-Four (51,444) candidates that sat the examination, Twenty-Five Thousand and Twenty Six (25,026) were males while Twenty-Six Thousand, Four Hundred and Eighteen (26,418) were females, representing 48.65% and 51.35%, respectively. Out of the total number of candidates that sat the examination, Forty-Nine Thousand, Five Hundred and Eighty-Four (49,584) candidates, representing 96.38% have their results fully processed and released while One Thousand, Eight Hundred and Sixty (1,860) candidates, representing  3.62% have a few of their subjects still being processed due to some errors on the part of the candidates.  Efforts are, however, being made to speedily complete the processing to enable all the affected candidates get their results fully processed and released, subsequently. The analysis of the statistics of the performance of candidates shows that out of the Fifty One Thousand, Four Hundred and Forty-Four (51,444) candidates that sat the examination: UPDATE: WAEC Releases WASSCE School Candidates 2021 [BREAKING] WAEC Set To Release 2021 WASSCE Results Of this number, Twelve Thousand, Two Hundred and Seventy Two (12, 272) i.e. 49.07% were male candidates, while Twelve Thousand, Seven Hundred and Thirty Six (12,736) i.e. 50.93% were female candidates.  The percentage of candidates in this category in the WASSCE for Private Candidates, 2019 and 2020, that is, those who obtained credit and above in a minimum of five (5) subjects, including English Language and Mathematics, were 35.99% and 39.82%, respectively.Thus, there is an encouraging 8.79% improvement in performance in this regard. The results of Three Thousand, Nine Hundred and Sixty Eight (3,968) candidates, representing 7.71% of the total number of candidates that sat the examination, are being withheld in connection with various reported cases of examination malpractice. The cases are being investigated and reports of the investigations will be presented to the appropriate Committee of the Council for determination in due course.  The Committee’s final decisions will thereafter, be communicated to the affected candidates. Candidates who sat the examination are now free to check the details of their performance on the Council’s results website: www.waecdirect.org.  The Result Checker PIN and Serial Number needed by candidates to check their results online are contained on the candidate’s Identity Photo Card used during the conduct of the examination. Gentlemen of the media, I wish to further remind candidates that the collection of certificates for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for Private Candidates is now based on requests made online, via the Electronic Certificate Management System (e-CERTMAN) platform.                               Details of the simple procedures have been made available to the public in our earlier paid advertisements. GENERAL It delights me to inform you that the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) will be celebrating its 70th Anniversary in Abuja from March 14 – 18, 2022 during its annual Council meeting.  All the member countries will be joining online while the Nigerian delegates would be attending physically.  It is going to be a big event and the media have a big role to play. I am also happy to inform you that with concerted efforts, aimed at making WAEC a technology-driven organization, various initiatives have been introduced to rejig our assessment and certification architecture for a more robust and efficient service-delivery system. WAEC-VERIFY Following from the above, WAEC has recently launched a new product, WAEC-VERIFY. This provides seamless access to the WAEC database to all tertiary institutions, which enables them to process candidates’ results for admission purposes without going through the cumbersome and not-very-reliable process of physical verification through third parties. WAEC CHATBOT Again, WAEC has brought to the doorsteps of its stakeholders easy access to all its services through the press of a button anywhere in the globe, and in the comfort of their locations, without necessarily traveling to any WAEC office. This service is known as CHATBOT and it is available on WhatsApp numbers. 0817 943 9269 0706 174 1253 Not too long from now, WAEC will be launching the following two products: This will enable candidates and end-users to view and access candidates’ original certificates on their electronic gadgets, thus eliminating fake certificates and ensuring easy access. This will enable researchers and all stakeholders to access results statistical analysis in any nature and format, online. CBT Services Let me also use this medium to inform all our stakeholders and the general public that WAEC offers very reliable and robust Computer Based Tests and Aptitude Test Services at the WAEC Testing and Training Centre, Ogba – an edifice that boasts of state-of-the-art facilities. You will certainly not regret any patronage. More Examinations We now conduct examinations all-year-round in a bid to make opportunities available to the Nigeria Child to earn qualifications for tertiary education without the endless wait.  The Private Candidates Examination, 2022 – First Series is currently ongoing and would be ending on Saturday, February 19, 2022.  The result is expected to be released in March 2022.  Candidates can still sit the subjects not yet taken by registering for the examination as Walk-In-Candidates. 