The Japanese company Nissan Motor has decided to stop the development of new internal combustion engines worldwide, with the exception of the United States, the Nikkei newspaper has said. The publication said that the auto company hopes to concentrate exclusively on the development of cars with electric motors. At the moment, Nissan has already stopped developing new engines for Europe. The next countries should be Japan and China, but said it would continue to develop gasoline ICEs for the United States on a limited basis. ACEA Projects 7.9% Rise In EU Car Sales In 2022, As Chip Supply… Hyundai Santa Fe Wins British Large SUV Of The Year This decision is due to the peculiarities of the local market, where pickup trucks are very popular, which Nissan is not yet going to equip with electric propulsion systems. Also, Nissan will not stop developing engines for hybrid models. Moreover, the Japanese promised not to close the factories and keep their staff at work. What caused this decision of Nissan is not officially reported. Most likely, the matter is in the new standards for harmful emissions, which will come into force in Europe in 2025. This innovation may make the development of internal combustion engines for the automaker commercially unprofitable. Meanwhile, the auto company celebrated the 35th anniversary of its European factory in Sunderland, United Kingdom, with a modern take on the old Bluebird hatchback. It became the first model of the Japanese brand, which stood on the conveyor of the enterprise in 1986. POLL For the hatchback, called the Newbird, they developed a special body colour inspired by the fashion of the mid-1980s. In addition, the car received a special emblem, which is illuminated by LEDs when the car is at a standstill. As for the technical component, the old internal combustion engine was replaced with an all-electric power plant from the modern second-generation Nissan Leaf hatchback, which is also assembled in Sunderland. We are talking about an electric motor, an inverter and a set of batteries for 40 kilowatt-hours. For improved weight distribution along the axes, the battery packs were installed in the middle – between the engine compartment and the luggage compartment. In addition, the engineers of the Japanese company have upgraded the steering system, brakes and suspension. The fuel filler neck was replaced with a port for connecting the charging cable.