***Says He Will Be The Greatest Mandate Ever ABUJA – Barely a year to the presidential election scheduled for February 18, 2023, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani and other stakeholders are pushing for the candidature of Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as presidential candidate in 2023. Ugwuanyi, who is a governor on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has been described as the best man for the job. COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose 2023 Presidency: 19 Northern Groups Endorse David Umahi’s… Nnamani, a former Governor of Enugu State, disclosed after consultation with stakeholders and political leaders including the Ebeano family that justice, fairness and equity demands that the Nigerian state allows the South East to produce the next President. Senator Nnamani, in a statement said: “Our leaders including the Ebeano political family in Nigeria and in diaspora have consulted widely and seriously believe in the actualization of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State as the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and president in 2023.” Senator Nnamani, who represents Enugu East in the Senate, said Nigeria has been beleaguered by a chequered socio-economic and political history that requires a consensus builder like Ugwuanyi to handle. He stated that Governor Ugwuanyi as the PDP leader in the South East has an enviable record as a consensus builder with every segment of the society, pointing out that the governor is the architect of the political harmony in Enugu State. Senator Nnamani said: “Governor Ugwuanyi is humane, tolerant and accommodating. All the traditional rulers, the clergy, workers union, the business community and the political class attests to his uncommon leadership qualities. No section of the State is marginalized or denied its dues.” POLL “His successful handling of the PDP zoning arrangement assignment which brought peace among party faithful across the country is a testimony of his capacity to build consensus. “He managed the assignment 100 percent and blemish free. He did this in days, thereby confirming his competence and arbitrage qualities.” “Governor Ugwuanyi’s relationship with the labour unions is unprecedented. No record of industrial dispute with any workers’ union since he assumed office. He runs an open-door administration and all stakeholders are satisfied. He is the kind of leader Nigeria needs as President.” “Governor Ugwuanyi is patient and a master of give-and-take required in consensus building. A good listener and negotiator with demonstrable competence. This is exactly what the nation needs at this time.” Senator Nnamani added that “Governor Ugwuanyi is a fit and proper person to lead Nigeria out of the doldrums at this time. He has demonstrated the ability to calm frayed nerves, ensure equity and justice for all. 2023 Benue Guber: I Have Undying Passion To Serve – Waya APC Youth Mobilise Over 30,000 Young People, Make Bold Demands… “He has the finesse, panache, good leadership traits needed to restore the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria.” In Ugwuanyi, Senator Nnamani stressed that Nigeria can be assured of even developments, a peaceful and prosperous country where everyone irrespective of tribe or religion will have a sense of belonging under one nation. Senator Nnamani urged the PDP to search no more for a presidential candidate but to give the South East the opportunity to prove that Nigeria can work by giving the 2023 presidential ticket to governor Ugwuanyi. Nnamani was optimistic that Ugwuanyi’s candidacy will win the presidential polls for the PDP and ultimately restore peoples’ trust and confidence in government.