YEANAGOA – Management of the Bayelsa Health Insurance Scheme (BHIS) said it handled over 485, 980 medical cases of enrollees from the inception of the scheme in July 2017 to December 2020. The Executive Secretary of BHIS, Dr Zuoboemi Agadah, who disclosed this during a meeting with heads of representatives of health care providers under the scheme in Yenagoa, said the figure included over 3,411 surgical operations of various categories. Agadah said the scheme had benefited beneficiaries so much, noting that it had transformed the people’s approach to health care services and the state’s health care delivery narrative. Bayelsa, Sterling Bank, Two Other Firms Sign $5m MoU On… Bayelsa To Inaugurate Health, Education, Media, Road Projects In… “In order to serve enrollees better and curtail prices and abuse of the system, management has constantly reviewed service tariffs and added drugs that were not initially in the drug list as well as the approval for upward review of capitation for hospitals as from March this year,” he said. According to him, findings by management indicated that the BHIS was adjudged to be the most functional state-operating health insurance scheme in the country. Agadah said the scheme in November 2021 started registration of the vulnerable and the less-privileged under what he described as the Basic Health Care Provision Fund. He said that officials of BHIS had been going to accredited primary health care centres in each ward to carry out the registration exercise across the state. He called on local government council chairmen and community leaders to identify and encourage those eligible to turn up for registration. POLL The BHIS boss noted that with Governor Douye Diri’s approval for the building of the health insurance scheme house within the state secretariat complex, service delivery would be improved and expanded. He said, “The construction of the building project, which started last year July, is expected to be commissioned this February during the second year anniversary celebration of the Prosperity Government.” Some medical directors of accredited health care providers, including Dr John Bennibor (Asuiefai Hospital); Dr Y. E. Oku (Bay Clinic); Dr A. N. Uba (Yenagoa Hospital) and Dr K.M. Azibi (Otuasega General Hospital), lauded the BHIS management for effectiveness.