ABUJA – As part of efforts to allow for a Nigerian President from the country’s Southeast region, foremost elder statesman and leader of the Pan Niger Delta Front (PANDEF), Chief Edwin Clark, has endorsed Bobby Ukadike from Imo State, for the topnotch job. At the occasion which took place in Abuja, Chief Clark described the presidential hopeful as a bridge between the older and younger generation. According to him, Ukadike is a “nexus between the older and younger generation whose capacity to lead the nation is unequalled given his deep knowledge of socio-economic, political, cultural and religious understanding.” 2023: Youths Vow To Install Yahaya Bello President By Numerical… 2023: Group Asks Emefiele To Run For Presidency Explaining the place of a unifier to help heal the country’s multiple challenges, the elder statesman said: “that the aspirant is one among others yet to be seen who is committed to uniting the nation as it would be easier for Chief Ukadike to leverage on his contacts across the six geopolitical zones into a full-fledged bond of unity to drive Nigeria to stardom among the committee of nations.” This is as he expressed satisfaction at the recent recognition accorded the aspirant by the pan-Igbo group, Ohaneze Ndi-Igbo; noting “I was happy to discover that Ohaneze Ndigbo has endorsed you ahead of 2023 general election and I am calling on all at home and abroad to rally round you because it will serve the interest of the country and also will be justice and equity for southeast to produce presidency.” The outspoken Niger Delta leader insisted “that it was not only the turn of Southeast to produce presidency, but it speaks of Justice, fairness, and equity for the South East to produce presidency. “I also call on political leaders and traditional rulers across the six geopolitical zones to rally around you as the project has started.” Earlier in his address, the presidential hopeful, Chief Bobby Tochukwu Ezra Ukadike said, he threw his hat into the ring as a result of the passion he has for the country, saying that under his presidency, Nigeria will be more united than before. POLL He maintained that “the nation has the potentials to be one of the best countries in the world which unfortunately has not yet been tapped, adding that he will roll out “class policy”, to achieve Nigeria’s greatness in four years. The “class policy”, he explained, is a two-fold policy that governs the rich; the elite and the poor with all categories of citizens being driven by the policies that tend to reduce corruption to the barest minimum. And the youth is a critical mass that must quickly be converted into a productive society before they become one singular huge challenge to the nation, saying that the world over, youths are not left idly, in the manner it is in Nigeria, hence, he would tailor a special programme that harnesses the youngsters in the country.” According to him, “there has been pressure from Igbo and Nigerian youths asking me to come and save Nigeria from disintegration and which I have decided to answer their call to duty in other to save Nigeria from going into extinction. And that Nigerians should reciprocate by voting for me en-masse.” Chief Ukadike, a businessman and philanthropist is contesting on the platform of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC).