Palm oil, a product gotten from the processing of fresh fruit bunch {oil palm tree} forms an important part of the local diet in Nigeria because animal fats such as milk and butter are hardly consumed. It is used both as a cooking material and as an ingredient in soups, sauces and a variety of local dishes. There is long been a thriving market for palm oil both within the main areas of production in southern Nigeria and between these regions and the non-palm oil producing northern region. Why Agricultural Performance Is Greatly Impaired By Inadequacy… Nigeria Set To Showcase Huge Potential In Cashew As It Host ACA… Oil palm in Nigeria grows in the coastal belt which varies in depth from one hundred to one hundred and fifty (100 to 150) miles and a riverine belt which follows the valleys of the Niger and Benue for a distance of about four hundred and fifty (450) miles from the sea. The main palm oil producing states includes Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Cross River, Anambra, Enugu, Benue, Imo, Abia, Ekiti, Akwa-Ibom, Delta and Rivers. This report seeks to educate and reveal relevant information that will be necessary in informing business investment decision on palm oil business. It will interest you to know that, the estimated demand of palm oil in Nigeria is about 1,600,000 metric tons /annum and the only way to sustain this is through storage, for instance, storing during glut. Business Opportunities In Plam Oil POLL For the purpose of this report, we will be focusing on Palm Oil Storage Business;this business, investors buy palm oil in bulk, store them in large quantities and sell off when the supply of palm oil has reduced. During this period, traders bring out their stock, sell them and make a reasonable profit. What To Consider Before Going Into Palm Oil Storage Business FG Initiates Measures To Boost Cocoa Production In Nigeria FG To Rebuild Agric Value Chain Processing Centres In Nasarawa As a result of that, you may find it difficult to sell and when you eventually do you might not get your money back. Qualities Of A Good Palm Oil A little shake of the content will make the oil to flow freely; the taste is good, has a beautiful fragrance and does not foam at the top. The colour is most times dark red. There are two seasons of palm oil: In doing this you have to consider your storage facility and possible, market to sell. There are many places to buy oil from, as mentioned above.  The best palm oil is oil with almost zero moisture content. Palm oil from Enugu, Abia, some part of kogi and Benue, Imo and Ebonyi local markets are very good especially Nsukka Palm oil. GOOD STORAGE SYSTEM/MANAGEMENT Whom To Sell To Depending on where your storage facility is, you can sell to local market as the demand will be high from September and January with low supply. You can as well sell to retailers who always buy in bulk but they don’t store, they depend on those who stored palm oil to sell to their customers. NOTE: The financial analyses on how to make 100% return on investment.