ABUJA – It was pomp and pageantry at the St Bartholomew Anglican Cathedral Church Kubwa, as renowned journalist, lawyer and people’s cleric, Venerable (Barr) Babatunde Oyesina unveiled his new book; “Fighting and Winning the Battles of Life”. Saturday’s occasion also marked the birthday anniversary of Venerable Oyesina.Venerable Oyesina said the book, “Is a spiritual manual and weapon of war to fight and win the battles of life”. “There is no doubt that life is a battlefront and every day we are fighting, Venerable Oyesina said.Giving more insight into the book, the author stated “As God’s Children, we fight to win and not to lose. “This book is a divine revelation put together under the leading and inspiration of the Holy Spirit to assist individuals and families in the fight against various battles of life and subsequent winning over such battles” Venerable Oyesina stated. In his foreword, the Bishop of St Bartholomew Anglican Cathedral Church Kubwa, Rt. Rev. Dr. Duke Akamisoko, commended the author, adding that he did not only reveal the existence of the battles of life but had “equally under the leading of the Holy Spirit revealed the secrets of winning such battles”. “The author through this inspired book made fighting and winning the battles of life much easier, by revealing the tools of war, which are fasting, midnight prayers and declaration of faith” Bishop Akamisoko stated. Chairman of the book launch, Olusegun Jolaawo SAN described the book as a “must-read” for everybody irrespective of religious affiliation. The Author, Venerable Babatunde Oyesina Esq. is a child of God and an ordained Priest, serving in the Diocese of Kubwa, Anglican Communion. POLL He is presently the Cathedral Archdeacon, St. Bartholomew Cathedral, Kubwa, Clerical Synod Secretary and the Director of Administration, all in the Diocese of Kubwa.He is a trained lawyer and journalist. He is a holder of LL.B, BL and consequently called to the Nigerian Bar.Oyesina equally holds a Higher National Diploma in Mass Communication as well as possesses Diploma in Theology, Bachelor of Theology and presently running his Master’s Degree in Theology. He is called into the teaching and prophetic ministry with a great passion for prayer and is the anchor of “Daily Word of Hope” and “Wakati Ireti” (Adura Ojojumo) daily devotionals both in English and Yoruba languages. Venerable Oyesina is the convener of “Gethsemane Family Prayer Hour” (an online Prayer Encounter) and Monthly Shiloh Hour (a word, prayer and prophetic meeting). More so, the author is a regular speaker at conferences, seminars, revivals, among others.He is married to Veronica Tolulope and the marriage is blessed with two boys – Timothy and Gideon.