ANOLU VINCENT; CHUKWUJEKWU ILOZUE OWERRI/AWKA – Eight persons were shot dead in the early hours of Tuesday by a gunman said to be ter­rorising the oil bearing com­munity of Mmahu Egbema, headquarters of Ohaji/Egbe­ma Local Government Area of Imo State. The gunman said to be an escapee of the Imo Cor­rectional Centre reportedly stormed the community from a nearby bush and embarked on a shooting spree which re­sulted in the killings. IBEDC Faults Oyo Government On Closure Of Offices Eguavoen, Amuneke Should Guard Against Clash Of Interest,… The youth president of Egbema community, who simply gave his name as Ro­mano, told newsmen that the gunman, who is from the com­munity, had since he escaped from the prison been terror­ising the entire community. This, he said, prompted the community to invite se­curity personnel to arrest him with the help of the youths but he eventually ran away into the bush. The incident, he said, had thrown the entire communi­ty into mourning. According to the youth president, prior to the gory incident, the bandit had killed three persons and es­caped into the bush for fear of being caught. Romano said the gunman also escaped into the bush after killing the people. POLL Confirming the incident, the Imo State Police Com­mand Public Relations Offi­cer, CSP Michael Abatham, said that the command was aware of the incident. While he did not confirm the number of casualties in­volved, the police image mak­er said that investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killings had commenced. Tension As Gunmen Kill Anambra Official Similarly, tension has gripped people of Aguata and Orumba North council areas where gun wielding men shot and killed an of­ficial of Anambra Trans­port Management Agency (ATMA) Tuesday morning at Ekwulobia in Aguata Local Government Area. They also allegedly robbed a fuel station in the area. Lift Of Ban On Twitter: Aviation Entrepreneur Hails Buhari, Says… Adebakin Felicitates With Ladi Adebutu @60 Earlier that morning, some gunmen attempted to snatch a riffle from a mobile police man along Oko-Umun­ze road but failed. It was not certain if the men who perpetrated the act were armed robbers, cultists or bandits. The unidentified official of the ATMA, a male, was controlling traffic at the ever busy Ekwulobia junction when he was gunned down, with bullet shattering his brain from behind. His office is yet to respond to inquiries about the inci­dent nor the police. But police spokesman, Toochukwu Ikenga, a Depu­ty Superintendent of Police (DSP), in a statement later said the police command embarked on robust patrol around the state with the aim to apprehend suspect­ed hoodlums sighted along Ekwulobia, Umunze road in the morning. The statement indicated that preliminary informa­tion revealed that along Umunze road the hoodlums in an attempt to disarm a mo­bile police officer on patrol started shooting sporadically. The mobile police officer, the statement continued, re­turned the fire and immedi­ately engaged the hoodlums which made the gunmen to flee the scene. “Meanwhile, calm has returned in the area and fur­ther details shall be commu­nicated,” he stated. There was increased po­lice presence in Awka, the state capital, and environs on Tuesday.