ASABA – Startling revelations have been made following the death of a 19-month-old baby allegedly brutalized by his teacher in Asaba, as the Delta State Government yesterday vowed justice for the deceased. On February 10, 2022, a report was brought before the State Command of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), on the manhandling of the baby by his teacher and son of the Proprietress of the school, Mr. Emeka Joshua aged 24 years old in the now sealed Arise and Shine School. Regrettably, the baby (Obinna Ohanazoeze) passed away in the early hours of February 12, 2022, in the Federal Medical Center ( FMC), Asaba from the alleged brutalization, prompting the state government and the police to arrest the suspects. IGR: FCT Losses N600bn Annually To Real Estate Sector, Onuh Hearken To Stakeholders, Inaugurate NDDC Board, Group Tasks… Relating her ordeal to journalists, the mother of the deceased child, Gift Ohanazeze, said that her late child came back from school on Monday (February 7, 2022), 10 days after he was enrolled, with bruises all over his body. Upon noticing the welts, the curious mother said she dashed to the school that night to enquire from the proprietress why her son was battered but was rudely dismissed by the owner of the school without answers. ‘’The next morning, I went back to the school and caused a scene; that was when other pupils told me that ‘’our big mummy (proprietress), one uncle and one aunty tied Obinna and flogged him like a goat. I confronted the proprietress and she did not deny, instead, she told me that ‘’Obinna is stubborn. ‘’On Thursday morning, I rushed the baby to Life Valley Hospital when his health kept deteriorating. Upon examining the child, the doctor observed that the child had internal injuries and not malaria. That was when I reported to the police and they arrested the teacher. ‘’When the baby died, the police went to the proprietress’s home to arrest her but discovered that she had eloped with her family. Meanwhile, I was on my way to Government House to seek justice when I saw her (proprietress) flagging a vehicle to take her to Onitsha Park. POLL ‘’She was delayed by the driver’s insistence to pick more passengers even though she offered to pay for all the empty seats. It was at that point that my grandmother who was with me seized her until the police met us there’’.