AKURE – A socio-political group, Yoruba Ronu Group (YRG), has condemned in strong terms attackers of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his ambition to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in office in 2023. In a statement signed by the group’s Director of Communications, Steve Bayode and made available to newsmen on Tuesday, the group described as unwarranted, online media attacks on the former Lagos State governor. It alleged the media attacks were funded by certain selfish politicians, especially people who are exploiting the masses by pretending to be fighting their cause. 2023: Udenta Woos S’East For Bala Mohammed 2023 Presidency: Arewa Group Urges Ugwuanyi To Contest According to the statement, the Chairman of the group, Prince Diran Iyantan alleged that a particular interest group and persons of the Yoruba extractions were in the habit of sponsoring recycled, false allegations against the national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) and his political allies in a bid to force their narrow and highly discredited political will on the good people of Nigeria. He said the source of those publications were well known and traceable to certain misguided politicians and fake human right crusaders. The statement reads in parts: “We have repeatedly stated in our previous releases that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s ambition does not stop other Yoruba or any South West person from aspiring to the same position. We just feel that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has a better chance than anyone else at clinching the position which is the reason for our support for him. “It is, therefore, sad to see fellow Yoruba persons casting aspersions on the person of Jagaban for flying high the flag of the Yoruba race.  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s interest after leaving office has been to help nurture and consolidate democracy in Nigeria. This, he has done, creditably, well. In addition, he has helped the progressives to attain the power to the country’s presidency. “We are aware that the stakes are high as the presidential election approaches, and desperate politicians will resort to different gimmicks, basically, to rock the boat. Those who have committed themselves to a sustained campaign of calumny in the media against the person of Asiwaju Tinubu, the former Governor of Lagos State, will labour in vain and they are well known to us. POLL “They have, continually, used their family blogs in New York to run a lot of people down in Nigeria. They stand for blackmailing people with the hope of gaining financial gratification. We are documenting their acts. “Also, we are aware that these cowards and hack-writers have benefited from Asiwaju’s benevolence in the past, only to turn around and sponsor negative publications to impugn his reputation. We charge them to desist forthwith from such callousness because their duplicitous conduct will eventually hunt them down. “To them and other politicians of their ilk in South West, we urge them to promote their political party interest, to conduct themselves with maturity, dignity and mutual respect in the interest of the good people of Yoruba-land and, by extension, Nigeria. “Their intentions at destroying another Yoruba star the same way they destroyed Kemi Adeosun’s reputation is not meritorious to the Yoruba race. It is bad. This is politics taken too far. “We know that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is committed to the victory of the APC in the next year presidential election in the country. He is the most popular among the masses. The opposition have respect for him. He is an enigma.” Only Yahaya Bello Can End Incessant ASUU Strikes In Nigeria —… MURIC Berated Over Call To Rule Out Osinbajo, Southern… The group, however, charged the leadership of APC to ensure all members of the party aspiring for the presidential ticket on the platform of the party should given a level playing field. “We hereby call on the APC leadership at the national level to ensure fairness to all the aspirants as we move forward in order to avoid internal implosion which could mar the chances of the party in the presidential election,” the statement read.