Members of the Peoples Democratic Party  loyal to Sen Bassey Albert Akpan have raised alarm over alleged intimidation of some of its members by the state Government and other officials of PDP. The embattled members have reported instances where their allies, mostly statutory delegatea  have been summoned and directed against freely associating with those loyal to Sen. Akpan. In a press  conference addressed by ArchBishop Andrew Uwanta, Chairman, Akwa Ubok Abasi Campaign Organisation in Uyo on Thursday,  the group said its members have been threatened with sanctions such as delisting and suspension from participating in voting at party primary if they fail to cut off such ties. The campaign organisation said such steps and threats were infringement on the fundamental rights of members and against the constitution of the party. “The recent and ugly activities of some Akwa Ibom State government and party officials, individually and as a group, calling meetings as well as reaching out to some party members mostly statutory delegates to direct them against freely associating with other leaders/members of the party and also threatening and intimidating them with violent and illegal sanctions such as delisting, suspension and prevention from participating in voting at Party Primary elections of which they are legitimate delegates is unfortunate, irrational, unconstitutional, null and void . “This has been the scenario across the state in recent times and cuts a picture of systemic and strategic plan to victimize, undermind and infringe on the inalienable rights of these members of the party as provided for by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP). “In as much as this action negates the tenets of democracy and fundamental rights, it is an abuse of office and threat to public peace, in contravention of the oath  of office taken by these government and Party Officials. “That I shall not allow my personal interest to influence my official decision; that in all circumstances I shall do right to all members of the party and to all manner of people, according to law without fear or favour, affection or ill-will”. POLL “These unwholesome and illegal actions are seriously viewed as a calculated attempt to polarise the party with the potential of negatively affecting the long earned success of the party in the state  and it is hereby condemned. “We hereby encourage our party members/delegates to ignore their empty threats and intimidations and continue in their lawful and loyal activities to promote an egalitarian society founded on freedom, equality and justice. “We insist that in line with the appropriate provisions of our party, the leadership of the party should ensure a level-playing field for all the delegates to exercise their free choices by supporting whoever they want without intimidation. Nigeria is running a democracy and not a theocracy (a system of government in which priests rule in the name of God), monarchy or dictatorship – where one man’s choice or decision must be obeyed by all without question. “We also demand that primary election, as stipulated by our party  constitution, be conducted in a free, fair and credible manner, where all the aspirants will subject themselves to the voting choices of the delegates and test their popularities. This will  truly ensure that our party retains its enviable hold on our dear state in the general election. “May we strongly advise the perpetrators of this ignoble and illegal acts of intimidation to retrace their steps to avoid appropriate sanctions in line with the provisions of (section 59 (1)) of our Party Constitution : “Any member of the party who commits any of the offences listed in section 58 (1) of this constitution shall be liable to any or a combination of the following penalties”. he said fielding questions from newsmen, Uwanta regretted Governor Udom Emmanuel’s haste in naming a successor before the primaries, declaring the decision both unconstitutional and a wrong strategy to  shut others off the race. The organisation also declared the recent endorsement of  Governor Emmanuel’s preferred successor by the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly as illegal,. unconstitutional and a move  to armtwist Akwa Ibom people.