Tributes have poured in from across the world of sport after the announcement of the death of legendary coach Steve Black, aged 64. Black worked with a number of top teams, including Newcastle United, Sunderland and Huddersfield Town football clubs, Newcastle Falcons rugby club, the Welsh national rugby setup and the British and Irish Lions. During his time with the Magpies, he was known for being a key part of Kevin Keegan ‘s backroom staff and became popular for training the players on Tynemouth beach in front of supporters. Klopp Urges Complete Focus On Leeds Before Cup Final Confirmed Man United XI Vs Leeds Falcons announced the news on Sunday and described Black as a “jovial Geordie” who was “a friend to all of us”. “Blackie, as he was universally known, spent two spells on the club’s coaching staff – but he was so much more than that,” the club said in a statement. “The jovial Geordie was the spiritual heartbeat of the Falcons from the very early days of professionalism, helping steer Newcastle to promotion and then the Premiership title at the first attempt. “Winning multiple domestic cups under his watch, Blackie’s unique motivational talents saw him succeeding with the Welsh national team and the British & Irish Lions, as well as with Newcastle United and Sunderland football clubs, and numerous other elite sportspeople. “Much more than his sporting achievements, Blackie was a friend to all of us – a proud Geordie who understood the value of people, and how to inspire them.” POLL Newcastle United also paid tribute: “We are saddened to learn of the death of Steve Black, who worked with Newcastle United under Kevin Keegan during the Entertainers era and was also part of the club’s backroom staff during the 2015/16 season. Our thoughts are with his family and friends.” Terry McDermott, the Magpies’ former assistant manager, said: “Devastated to wake up to the news my big mate Blackie has passed away. Words can’t do justice what a top bloke he was and he will be missed very much by everyone who knew him.” Club legend Alan Shearer took to Twitter to give his response to the news: “Awful news. RIP Blackie.” And, in 2019, rugby star Danny Cipriani described what Black meant to players like himself and fellow England legend Jonny Wilkinson. “When you have someone that you can rely on and trust in, the way you feel – and therefore the way you can play – is second to none. That person, for me, is Steve Black,” he wrote in his column for the Telegraph. Dalot Explains The Secret Behind His Brilliant Man Utd Form Rodgers Admits He May Leave Leicester By End Of Season “I met Steve in 2013 while I was with Sale Sharks. I was in my mid-twenties and I would have been sceptical, although I knew he had worked with Jonny Wilkinson. I probably thought, ‘Do I really have to open up to another person?’ “We had a three-or-four-hour conversation. It was engrossing, and I learned so much about myself. “From there, over a period of about two years, he helped de-fog my brain. He helped me understand things, why I felt certain ways. “Sometimes you cannot address a feeling until you go through a process. “Blackie was amazing at that, and my four seasons at Sale were an important time of my life on and off the field.”