ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has charged all ethnic communities residing in Abuja to use their various platforms to promote the security and development of the Nation Capital City. Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Monitoring,  Inspection and Enforcement, Comrade Ikharo Attah gave this charge over the weekend in Abuja, when he addressed the reunion meeting of the Descendants of Uhonmora-Ora. The people of Uhonmora-Ora are said to be indigenous in  Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State, but have a large representation in all sectors of the economy within the Federal Capital Territory. Igbos Haven’t Committed Any Crime To Be Denied Presidency In… Political Parties Grooming Thugs Instead Of Leaders – Sen… Attah who also hails from the community,  said Abuja as Nigeria’s Capital,  is a burgeoning model city of global repute, as well as a unifying point for all ethnic groups, as envisioned by its founding fathers. He, however, hinted that the  security and development of the city do not depend on government alone, but the responsibility of all individuals and ethnic groups, who also need to  support government’s policies in all aspects. He opined that government’s efforts towards securing and developing the city, would have little or no impact without the cooperation of all stakeholders. Attah stated that several measures had been taken by the FCT Ministers, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello and Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu towards sustaining the developmental blueprint of the city for the benefits of all Nigerians and legitimate foreigners. He further called on all the ethnic groups to always use their meetings to urge their members to respect and obey the laws, and protocols that govern the FCT. POLL He said leaders of various ethnic groups should also sensitize their members on the dangers of indulging in illegalities and attitudes that breed contraventions in the areas where they live. He added that the administration has zero tolerance for lawlessness and criminalities , and other behaviours that scuttle security and development of the city. According to him,” All ethnic communities must come in , join hands with the FCT Administration and the President who is the Governor General to build  Abuja as a capital city for all of us. “We must all be  security conscious as well as obey the rules that govern Abuja, as made by its founding fathers”, Attah added. Also Speaking,  a Federal government’s retiree and a member of the community,  Imoigele Kingsley, said his community in Abuja had been part of the development of the city for the past 30 years. PDP Chairman Defects To APC In Delta Rep Accuses Council Chairmen Of Diverting N50m Health Equipment Kingsley who was also  Chairman of the occasion, noted that the reunion meeting was convened to reactivate the community’s platform, to galvanise more developmental support both for their home  community and Abuja where they live.