LAGOS  – The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has hinted of plans to increase credit to the agricultural sector to boost investments in agriculture and allied industries, distribution storage systems, and necessary market infrastructure. Emefiele, who made the disclosure at a dinner session with the board of the United Bank for Africa (UBA) in Abuja over the weekend, mentioned the impact of access to credit on the productive capacity of the country. The CBN governor, in his remarks on, “Food Security, Job Creation and the Role of the Central Bank,” the CBN governor, stressed the critical role of banks and financial institutions in enabling more inclusive growth of the economy following the series of external shocks that had confronted economies globally. Remedial Health Raises $1m Pre-Seed Funding To Digitise Africa’s… Lagos Offers More Benefits In Upgraded Residents’ Card He underlined the importance of investments in agriculture and allied industries, distribution storage systems, and necessary market infrastructure. He also said that under the Anchors Borrowers’ Programme, about $2 billion out of about $2.5 billion earmarked for key initiatives in the manufacturing, mining, and agriculture, services sectors had been disbursed to over three million farmers cultivating over 4.7 million hectares of arable land in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He pointed out that the agricultural sector received almost 80% of the fund. “We were aware that if the necessary support was provided to households and business such as improved access to finance, and better infrastructure, these measures would boost productivity, and help in enabling greater direct investment flows into our economy. “As a result, there was a growing recognition on the need to refine our monetary policy tools and regulatory framework in order to ensure that it was more responsive to the needs of the Nigerian populace. It was important that this new framework enabled the flow of credit by financial institutions to critical sectors in order to aid our efforts at driving productive activities and creating job opportunities for our growing population”, he said POLL According to Emefiele, the programs have helped farmers raise their yields dramatically and have contributed greatly to Nigeria’s road toward food self-sufficiency.