AWKA – The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has reiterated that its volunteer’s armed wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) operatives are not the same nor do they perform the same role as unknown gunmen. The group in a statement signed by the media and publicity Secretary Emma Powerful said that contrary to allegations by Nigeria security agents, IPOB should not be linked to Unknown Gunmen who it described as “hoodlums behind the kidnappings and snatching of cars in (Eastern) region”. It said it is now “absolutely clear to all and sundry that Nigeria Government and security agencies and their evil politicians created the unknown gunmen in the region particularly in the Imo State because the state government wants to demonise IPOB and our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU”. IPOB: Release Nnamdi Kanu, Yul Edochie Begs FG IPOB Sit-at-Home Records Compliance In Ebonyi It said that it has severally explained that ESN operatives stay in the bushes and forests safeguarding the people who have been the victim of rape and killings by Fulani terrorists masquerading as herdsmen. It added: “ESN had no hands in the recent attack at the Isu LGA Divisional Headquarters of Police by unknown gunmen. Those attacking them are those they created to demonise IPOB and its leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU. “Ironically, the monster they created to destroy ESN has turned around to hunt them. They should leave IPOB and ESN out of their problem”, it said. The group also prophesied that “the demons the Nigeria Police, Nigeria Army and DSS nurtured will continue to hunt them until they openly confess their atrocities against Biafra. “They must come out openly and speak up on the mystery behind the UNKNOWN GUNMEN and cannibalism in the region. POLL “IPOB is the only obstacle they have yet they keep pointing accusing fingers at us for the same evil they committed. “The government of Imo State under the watch of Hope Uzodinma created unknown gunmen and now using Ebubeagu security outfit to accomplish his aims to eliminate our innocent citizens and youths in the state”, it said. The IPOB advised the Nigeria police to go and look for those who attacked them at Isu local council area of Imo State because certainly, it is not IPOB. IPOB also claimed that Security authorities know where the Unknown Gunmen are. It said in the statement: “The worst thing is that they know where those attacking them are staying but they keep on mentioning IPOB and ESN members. Gunmen Shoot, Behead Ebonyi Ebubeagu Vigilante Outfit Member Gunmen Enforcing Sit-at-Home Kill APC Youth Leader, One Other In… “We are well ahead of them, and police cannot humiliate us with their fallacious and laughable allegation and media trial. We cannot accept that garbage”, it concluded.