**Says Emir of Azara Builds Bridges of Unity Across Nigeria ABUJA – The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has asked Nigerians to remain one for the sake of the future generations. Akpabio said that it was in the interest of all Nigerians “to bequeath a united, prosperous and better Nigeria to our children and generations yet unborn.” Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… Ebonyi Assembly Declares Deputy Speaker’s Seat Vacant,… The former governor stated this in his keynote remarks at the 20th Anniversary Celebration of the ascension to the throne of his forebears of His Royal Highness, Emir of Azara, Dr Kabiru Musa Ibrahim, in Azara, Nasarawa State. According to Akpabio, “Twenty years on the throne of your forebears is simply the benevolence of God on the life of our revered Emir and his people. I am here today with a large entourage from all regions of the country to demonstrate that we are all one, no matter the different languages and religions we speak and believe in, respectively.” The former Senate Minority Leader told the audience that Dr Ibrahim “is a great Nigerian, who has contributed a lot to the health of the people of Azara and Nasarawa State in general;” adding that “it is important for this cordiality to exist and we will continue to build bridges across the length and breath of Nigeria. We are determined to bequeath a united and prosperous country to our children and generations yet unborn, far better than what we are currently seeing or seen in the past.” “It is important we join hands with President Muhammadu Buhari, to do everything within our powers to put this country together, particularly, all of us who have benefited so much from this country”, he iterated. Going down memory lane on his over 15 years relationship with the Emir, the former Senate Minority Leader said, “he is a great friend of mine. We have known each other for over 15 years. That is why I came to be part of this divine honor by God to a man of honour and that explains the presence of the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhamadu Sa’ad Abubakar and over 25 first class Emirs across the length and breath of the Northern part of the country.” POLL Also speaking, the Governor of Nasarawa State, Engr Abdulai Sule, thanked the Minister for his commitment to national unity. “The unity you and other people down south are preaching is beginning to yield fruits and as leaders in the North, we will work towards the oneness of this country. President Muhamadu Buhari believes in peace, transparency, accountability and united Nigeria and governors we will continue to give that support”, he stressed. In his welcome speech, the Emir, described the Minister as a long standing friend of his, who has continued to work for the progress and unity of the country, saying, “let me specially thank my brother, the Minister for honoring our invitation. It is a statement of his commitment to the oneness, peace and progress of this country.” “Ever since our path crossed, he has been building bridges of unity across the length and breath of this country and this must be encouraged. I thank you for coming to see where your brother is living. God will continue to uplift you to a greater height.”