The Zamfara State House of Assembly, on Wednesday, resumed plenary after the 2021/2022 end of the year recess as required by the law. As Speaker of the House, Nasiru Mu’azu Magarya welcomed his colleagues back from the recess; the House in one of its legislative duties for the day considered and approved a report of the House standing committee on Basic secondary and non-formal Education in a bill to establish the State Education Trust Fund. Mustapha Jafaru Kaura, Director-General, Press Affairs and Public Relations, in a statement made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT, stated that after the presentation and careful deliberations on the bill sponsored by Hon Yusuf Alhassan Kanoma, members of the House unanimously approved the 30 far-reaching recommendations by the committee and subsequently passed it into law and will soon be forwarded to the executive governor for his assent. Nigerian Newspapers: Top Stories For Today (04/02/22) IMF Approves $1bn Loan Tranche For Pakistan Kaura said with this development, the state will now benefit immensely from the provisions of the trust fund that will cater for the problem of paying external examination fees for indigenes of the state as at when due without unnecessary delay. Magarya reminded members of the challenges contained in the 2022 legislative year which he described as a political year ahead of the 2023 electioneering build-up towards the success of the ruling party All Progressives Party (APC) in the state and the safe return of Governor Bello Muhammad MON (Matawallen Maradun) for a second term in office. The House adjourned the plenary for the continuation of legislative business and other House engagements as moved by Hon. Anas Sarkin Fada and seconded by Hon Yusuf Muhammad Anka. Earlier, the chief lawmaker read a condolence letter written by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Zamfara State on the passage of Hon Ibrahim Muhammad Naiddah member representing Gusau 1 in the State House of Assembly. The letter signed by the state resident Electoral Commissioner, Professor Saidu B. Muhammad condoled with the immediate family of the deceased, House members, the government and the good people of the state over the demise of late Hon. Naiddah. POLL Members of the House, who took turns to eulogise the late member, prayed to Allah to grant his soul with Jannat-Firdaus. They prayed to Allah to give the immediate family the comfort to bear the irreparable loss. The Speake described the late elder statesman as a punctual and accurate timekeeper that abhors the African time mentality but keeps to business appointments, especially in observance of the five daily prayers.