KADUNA – The President of Atyap Community Develop­ment Association, Comrade Samuel Achie has lamented the kill­ings and attacks in Atyap community in Southern part of Kaduna state At a press conference at the Nigeria Union Of Jour­nalists (NUJ) Secretariat, Ka­duna, Achie said, “It is with a heavy heart that I again have to address you today on the on-going carnage of killings, maiming, destruction and dis­placement of communities be­ing perpetrated on the Atyap land by forces of the Fulani terrorist militia. “While we have remained resolute in pursuing the peace initiated by our paramount ruler, HRH Sir Dominic Yaha­ya Gambo and other sons and daughters of the land, the en­emies of peace, keep inflicting pains by invading our villages and killing our people at will and getting away with it. Ghanaian Journalist Bags 14-day Jail, Employers Shocked Stop Further Debate On Bill Seeking To Scrap NSCDC, Group… Achie revealed that the un­fortunate thing is that at any time there is a peace meet­ing with either government officials, representatives of Fulani organizations or the NGOs to try and advance the peace process, the next will be an attack on the land by the Fulani terrorist militias, who subsequently vanish without any trace of their where­abouts. He however said, “I have said it before and I will say it again, that the entire Atyap nation has resolved that not an inch of our land will be taken for whatsoever purpose by the enemies of peace and good neighborliness in our community.” He added, “The ability of the attacking terrorists to dis­appear without trace appears surprising. We call on the se­curity forces to step up and show commitment to end the killings, to protect the lives and properties of the citizens “With the deliberate per­petuation of violence against the Atyap Chiefdom and communities in Zangon Ka­taf Local Government area of Kaduna State, the lives of citizens have been reduced to nothing in the land, and the lives and property of our people are being obliterated at will by those that feel they are protected and can do whatev­er they want with human lives and go free. “After my last Press Release and update on the happenings in Atyap land on July 17, 2021, many lives and innumerable property have been destroyed in villages like Abuyab, Maza­ki, Mawakili, Takjei, Matache, Matagama, Gora Gan, Kur­min Masara and Atisa. POLL “On Sunday 30th January, 2022, 11 people were brutally murdered by Fulani terror­ist militia forces; many were wounded, over 30 houses burnt and over 100 people displaced. Again, on Monday, January 31, 2022, Atisa village in (Kurmin Masara) was attacked and five lives lost and eight houses burnt too. “ He lamented that even in the presence of the security checkpoints in Bakin Kogi and Ashaawuce, both less than a kilometre from the scene, some people from the area are still missing and unaccounted for. “In several meetings and in particular during one of our visits at the invitation of His Excellency the Gov­ernor of Kaduna State, Mal. Nasiru El-Rufai, he publicly applauded the efforts of HRH the Agwatyap on the efforts to sustain the peace initiative and the high respect he had for the paramount ruler. Despite all this, His Royal Highness and the the Atyap nation have been left alone to carry their cross for reasons best known to the government. “In that same visit, His Excellency did give a dead­line that by December 2021, if peace was not restored in Atyap land that he would withdraw all the security op­eratives. Given the obvious abandonment of the Atyap communities to their fate in the hands of violent and murderous terrorists armed to the teeth with sophisticat­ed weapons. I sincerely feel it is time His Excellency called on the security apparatus for a review of strategy and pos­sible changes where possible. He called on the interna­tional community to be aware that genocide going on in the community. Private: N4.6m Fraud Charge: Lionstone Chairman, Ndili, Denies… BREAKING: Soldier Shot During Community Attack In Gombe He also called on the gov­ernment to as a matter of urgency to appraise the per­formance of all the military personnel as there seems to be disconnect between what they are supposed to do and what they are doing.