BENIN – A pressure group under the aegis of, “Push 4 Emefiele 2023 Presidency” has called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele to contest the 2023 presidential election so as to bail the country out of the present quagmire. According to Push 4 Emefiele 2023 Presidency ” we are calling on the CBN Governor to heed the advice of Nigerians and vie for the 2023 presidential election in order to rescue Nigeria from economic doom” The group said, the emergence of Godwin Emefiele as the President of Nigeria in 2023 will not only improve the economy of the country but will also tackle other issues including security, education, power problems among other things. Sowore To Make Presidential Declaration Next Week 2023 Presidential Election Holds February 25 2023 Presly Okojie Esq, the National Coordinator of “Push 4 Emefiele 2023 Presidency” while addressing a press conference in Benin told journalists that the reason why they are committed to the course is that Mr Emefiele has done very well as the governor of the apex bank for the period he is in charge. “The man, Godwin Emefiele was CEO/MD of Zenith Bank until in 2014 when the former president, Goodluck Jonathan appointed him governor of Central Bank and when President Buhari came into power, he reappointed him, because of his performance. “He was the one that introduced the BVN(Banking Verification Number) that has made bank transactions very easy, just as he also brought Nigeria out of recession two times in five years. “Nigeria was having about 3,000 megawatts of electricity, but through his efforts, Nigeria has about 5,000 mega Watts today and that is what has brought stability in the power sector. “He anchored the Anchor Borrower Programs, the COVID-19 intervention programs, the agric loans. POLL “Our microfinance banks are one of the best today courtesy of what Mr Godwin Emefiele has done, I believe that If such a man is given the chance he will make Nigeria an enviable country.” Okojie declared. He said the group started its mobilization in Edo state and will move to Port Harcourt, River State to Cross River then to Asaba to round off the campaign in the South-South States before moving to other geo-political zones in the country.