The ongoing primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State may end up being declared inconclusive after all. This postulation is borne of the bitter allegation by party members believed to be loyal to the ‘Top Faction that they found their names deleted from the voter register, thereby provoking most of such affected loyalists to abandon their designated voting centres and head for the market in order to ensure that the day is not wasted for them. An official of the party at the grassroots level, Adesola Adegbite confirmed this when asked for comment even as she disclosed: “All of us who belong to the Top Faction could not find our names on the register. AbdulRazaq Hails Huge Turnout, Peaceful Conduct Of Osun APC… Osun APC To Party’s National Reconciliation Committee:… “Yes, it is true. Many of our people have angrily left the voting centre for the market. We are a peace-loving people. We do not want trouble but we shall continue to say the truth as it is.”; she submitted. Meanwhile, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, the immediate ex-governor of the state and current Minister of the Interior has earlier today Saturday, February 19, issued a statement imploring all the party members to ensure that the primary election is peaceful in order to beam a ray of hope for also a peaceful statewide election expected for July 2022. Here below is the full statement of the minister and factional leader of the Osun State APC: My good people of Osun,Good day to you all. Another electoral cycle has rolled by and we are now in that season again in Osun. We should thank God for the democratic right to participate in the electoral process of electing our leaders. POLL As you all know, this is a two-staged process. The first is intra-party, meaning that our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), will democratically nominate its candidate. The second stage, inter-party, will take place in a state-wide election sometime in July, God willing. For this first stage, I am appealing to all our party members to participate but peacefully in the primary election taking place today. They should avoid any form of violence, brigandage and disorderliness. Our party members, especially our supporters, should be resolute to cast their vote, not to be intimidated and scared away. But they should portray themselves and the party in the best form in comportment, organisation and promotion of societal peace and tranquillity. You should know that we are first a community of humans before we are a political community. Our peaceful coexistence therefore supersedes every other activity.The Nigerian and our party’s constitutions make provision for the expression of our preference and choice of leader every four years. This is the heart of the democratic process. It is an inalienable right we should take as sacred and exercise with every sense of responsibility. I am also appealing to our members to push out the women and let them lead the process by coming out decently and peacefully. This is to demonstrate the customary dignity of women as matriarchs, mothers, wives and daughters, which confers on them the special protection status from violent attacks from thugs and hoodlums. Our overall objective is to have a transparent, free, fair and peaceful election.I wish us all a peaceful, free, fair and successful primary election.I thank you all. No Petition Received Over Parallel Congress In Osun – APC… Osun APC Crisis Deepens As Aregbesola Loyalists Arraign In Court… Ogbeni Rauf AregbesolaIlesa, State of OsunFebruary 19, 2022 