We have for long been raising the alarm that African democ­racy is under threat. While this threat is universal, the case of Africa is acutely different be­cause it is actually the practitioners of democracy, politicians themselves, that are doing the damage. In other words, democracy is dying from within its core. It should therefore be a matter of con­cern for those of us who still believe that democracy is the “best form of govern­ment” to take note of the danger looming. Without democracy, a major chunk of our notion of self-determination and civil lib­erty would be compromised or lost. Unfortunately, those values concep­tually associated with democracy are being randomly trampled upon by “en­emies of democracy,” comprising of an assortment of reckless partisan politi­cians who spent their time and energy spreading the negative message that the system of democracy is “rigged from top to bottom.” In these categories of “ene­mies of democracy” as we know it are well-known demagogic nationalistic pol­iticians in the mold of Donald Trump of America, Bolsonaro of Brazil, Duterte of the Philippines and a whole lot of them in Eastern Europe and here in Africa. These are people who got elected “democratically” who upon assuming of­fice soon proceed to be doing everything possible to undermine the core essence of democracy using both oratorical she­nanigans of “us against them” and out­right misinformation about the true na­ture of democracy. Their angst against democracy is that it makes it easy of those who they classify as subhuman to ascend to power because of their rising numbers hence sloganeering like “make America great again” is apt. For these people, the majority cannot be trusted. Here in Nigeria, we have seen how peo­ple who campaigned and got elected to office democratically dramatically pro­ceed to govern in non-inclusive ways and styles that are completely repugnant to democracy. Results Don’t Lie! (2) Rice O Compatriots: Dissecting Emefiele’s Rice Pyramids (2) If democracy is coterminous with the peaceful selection of leaders using a free and fair process, how come electioneer­ing has become unduly militarised in Nigeria? Election days now look like bat­tlefields as the streets are flooded with military men in battle gear. For what? It is a source of worry that ordinary civil processes like campaigning and voting have been extremely militarised coupled with self-serving draconian orders ban­ning free movement of persons within and inter-state. All these aberrational pastimes end up discrediting democra­cy. When civilian governments routinely call on the military to help conduct pure­ly civil elections, what message are they sending to the soldiers? If it is true, as it is often parroted, that democracy means majority rule, how come it is possible for elected officials in Nigeria to turn democratic governance into a tool for personal aggrandizement, sectional appeasement and unmitigated corruption with the immediate conse­quences of immiserating the same people in whose name the government is sup­posed to serve? There are societies where democracy is not practiced robustly but they are doing far better than some societies that spend so much of their time and resources try­ing to erect periodic democratic govern­ments which habitually disappoint those who voted them in power. I have previous­ly used the UAE as example. There is no democracy in Dubai, but the government is doing so well in terms of providing for the welfare and general wellbeing of the citizen coupled with very efficient eco­nomic management which has suddenly catapulted the hitherto desert and arid country to the status of the First World with all its developmental credentials. We can also cite the case of China whose economic miracle has turned the previously poor Maoist socialist state into a major economic powerhouse with millions of her citizens being lifted out of poverty daily while in the so-called democracies like Nigeria, millions of cit­izens are being pushed into poverty daily even though a few privileged individuals are corruptly becoming billionaires. Democracy and its accompanying electioneering process have been turned into effective tools for stoking crises in society, pitching groups and against each other divisively. Elections are rancorous as participants do not play by the rules; electioneering is often marred by irreg­ularities and violence that at the end of the day whoever wins has already been circumstantially delegitimised. POLL Take the APC governorship primaries that was held in Ekiti Sate a few days ago. All those who lost at the “direct” prima­ries have all come out to condemn the outcome as unacceptable while the win­ning camp is saying that it is “normal” for losers to complain baselessly. I do not see what is “normal” or “baseless” there. If an intra-party contest is being so open­ing discredited by members of the same party, what would be left in the entire process after the general elections when the loosing parties would add their own rancorous condemnations to the existing widespread allegations of irregularities? It is getting clearer by the day, that democracy as practiced in many coun­tries, especially those African countries which lack strong and ideologically ori­ented state institutions able and willing to stand up in defence of democracy as an inviolable national treasure from both internal and external assaults, has be­come problematic because, contrary to what democracy fundamentally implies, i.e., accountability and self-determina­tion, it has eventually become a means by which bad people come to power improp­erly only to immediately turn against the same people that elected them to office. Africa is again sliding into military dictatorship as evinced by recent uncon­stitutional developments in Sudan, Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso which saw the overthrow of democratically elected governments that have manifestly gone astray by soldiers who have no creden­tials or pedigree for better management of state affairs. It is incontrovertible that most of the problems of political and eco­nomic retardation in African today are directly traceable to the extended periods of past vandalistic military misrule when there were no accountability or common sense in governance. Africa is still reel­ing in the mess which the irresponsible military regimes of yore left behind and that is why it is very worrisome that they are coming back again. Whenever politicians corruptly put themselves in power without the req­uisite electoral mandates, they are, in the process, putting democracy in peril. When they fail to deliver on their cam­paign promises, additional impetus is un­wittingly offered to those who think they can do better even if it means through undemocratic means. The situation brings forth what Prof Samuel Finer, the author of The Man on Horseback, (1962) calls the calculus of intervention which translate into the two elements of Opportunity and Dispo­sition. Military usurpers only act if there is both the opportunity and disposition simultaneously. These factors tend to materialise whenever civilian leaders, desperate for power, invite the military to help facilitate the election process be­cause the political environment has been polluted by the unbridled corruption and shenanigans of electioneering. Kumuyi’s New Level: The Dead Are Living Again Hanifa: When A Society Kills Its Finest Citizens will only defend a regime which they believe came to power through their votes and is actually serv­ing their interests but when they know that votes were stolen, the majority gets alienated from the government and as a result will only be just happy to see it toppled. That is why there are not always many tears for those regimes whenever they are brought down unconstitution­ally. We have seen the feeble efforts of ECOWAS against these usurpations in Sudan, Mali, Guinea, recently, Burkina Faso, and elsewhere. Corrupt and incompetent African lead­ers paying lip service to democracy at home lack the moral power to condemn constitutional aberrations elsewhere. It is like the kettle calling the pot black as they too are incompetent and neck-deep in corrupt and anti-democratic practices? That is the immediate dilemma confront­ing Africa as empty-headed coupists are shooting their ways back to power once more.