The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Wednesday said bold reforms are needed to unleash Nigeria’s growth potential brought by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement. In a report, the Washington, DC based body said Nigeria’s ratification of the AfCFTA presents a historic opportunity to pursue diversification that could yield a positive net export boost if accompanied by trade-enabling reforms. It said to increase intra- African trade, gain from increased access to cheaper goods and services from other African countries, and spur the development of regional value chains, Nigeria should step up reforms to reduce tariff escalation and average tariffs in line with agreement under the AfCFTA, bringing down tariffs on raw materials, intermediate goods, and finished goods. 2023: A’Ibom Stakeholders Urge Akpanudoedehe To Run For… Going Diabolical Will Not Save You, EFCC Warns Yahoo Boys It asked Nigeria to streamline import documentation requirements and enhance the transparency and efficiency of custom procedures, speeding up clearance time and addressing bottlenecks such as port processes and transportation costs, while continuing to expand the capacity of port infrastructure and upgrading roads near the ports. It said the country must harmonise essential rules of origin, which affect the cost of a traded product, with other African countries to arrive at a common continental set (as part of Phase I of AfCFTA negotiations). It wants Nigeria to “improve the customs capacity to enforce preferential rules of origin and detect abuse (which could be severely detrimental to fair competition and customs revenue if origin is not efficiently controlled). “Permanently lift border closures, while addressing security concerns and smuggling; and enhance digital connectivity, facilitating communications of firms in GVCs with both their suppliers and their customers through cost-efficient and reliable internet- based technologies.” According to the IMF, it is pertinent Nigeria implements simultaneously both energy reforms––i.e., “the short-term fuel subsidy removal (market- based pricing) with mitigating measures to protect the poor” and “the medium-term conversion plan from petroleum to natural gas vehicles (NGVs)”. POLL It said these two are not replaceable, but rather, complementary, noting that fuel subsidy is “regressive” and generates large fiscal burden and distortion of resource allocation. The body said through eliminating fuel subsidy, the Nigerian government can create fiscal space to protect the poor and prepare for the medium- term conversion plan. “Regarding conversion plan to CNG, its costs and benefits should be analysed, and the plan should be accompanied by the fuel subsidy reform to have fiscal space to implement it. “The following policy measures are important. First, with the “Petroleum Industry Act (PIA)” that has the provision of market-based pricing for petrol products should be adhered to with the authorities reaching an agreement with labour unions by early next year. It said to persuade the public and unions, a well-designed “communication campaign” needs to be conducted. “Third, to cushion the impacts of higher fuel prices, well-targeted cash transfers programmes need to be in place in consultation with the World Bank, who is working to strengthen the delivery system through digitalisation and integration of various state-level registries. “Fourth, building a broad consensus on the reform is also needed among all tiers of governments and public institutions (federal, state, and local government, CBN, National Assembly, NNPC and etc.)”, it noted. It said its analysis shows that Nigeria’s pandemic period inflation is likely to have been led by supply-side and exchange rate shocks, noting that fortunately, both shocks are transitory and appear to have already begun to dissipate. EKOEXCEL Hails Women, Girls In Science Toxic Fuel Importation: Stop Shielding Your Leaders Involved,… “Going forward, the authorities should formulate a well-sequenced and internally consistent set of actions so that the temporary inflation shocks would not lead to dislodged expectations.