ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari, has approved the establishment of the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau (NDPB). He has also approved the appointment of Dr. Vincent Olatunji to serve as the National commissioner/Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau. A statement on Friday by Mrs. Uwa Suleiman, Spokesperson to the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, explained that the creation of the Bureau followed a request made by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami). Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election Umahi Will Fly APC’s Presidential Ticket, Ebonyi Party… Suleiman said the NDPB has been established in line with global best practice and will focus on data protection and privacy for the country, among others. “The successful implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) for a Digital Nigeria has significantly increased the adoption of data platforms and accelerated the datafication of our society. “This has increased the importance of having an institution that focuses on data protection and privacy. “Furthermore, the issuance of the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR) in January 2019, as a subsidiary legislation to the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Act 2007, has increased awareness about the need for data protection and privacy. “The Bureau will be responsible for consolidating the gains of the NDPR and supporting the process for the development of a primary legislation for data protection and privacy. POLL “President Buhari also approves the recommendation of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Pantami, for Dr. Vincent Olatunji to serve as the National Commissioner/Chief Executive Officer of the Bureau. Dr. Olatunji hails from Ekiti State and, at the time of his appointment, was the Director of the eGovernment Development and Regulations Department at NITDA. The appointment takes effect immediately, according to the statement. Dr. Vincent Olatunji has a doctorate degree in Geography and Planning from the University of Lagos and an Advanced Diploma in Computer Studies. He is a Certified Public Private Partnership Specialist (IP3 Specialist) and a PECB Certified Data Protection Officer. 2023: Nigeria Owes Southeast So Much, Should Consider Region For… APC To PDP: Sanwo-Olu Doesn’t Need Your Worthless… He has worked in the public sector for almost 30 years thereby acquiring practical proficiency and thorough understanding of government operations in Nigeria and other countries. He brings on board significant experience in team building, research activities, policy development and strategic planning on various development initiatives across the three tiers of government in Nigeria. He equally offers significant capability in the delivery of high value outcomes as a skilled negotiator, social networker and public speaker whose personal focus is on working with teams and individuals to maximize economic potentials. He joined NITDA in 2002 and has worked in various departments thereby, rising to the position of a Director in 2014 and Acting DG in 2016. Until his appointment, he was the Director of eGovernment Development and Regulations in National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA).