The  All Progressives Congress (Ekiti APC) has picked  Ikere -Ekiti, Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye as the party’s Deputy Governorship Candidate for the June 18, 2022 gubernatorial election in the state. This was contained in a  statement issued   by the Party Chairman, Barrister Paul Omotosho,. The APC chairman said ” Afuye’s emergence is the outcome of extensive consultations with stakeholders across the State, and has been welcomed enthusiastically, not only by party members, but also youth and women organisations, artisans, market women, the traditional institutions, and other grassroots stakeholders in the State. APC Chieftain Wants Election Dates Permanent In Nation’s… Nwafor-Orizu Emerges PDP Chairman In Anambra The statement  said “we are pleased that the nomination of Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye has been well received by our people, especially amongst grassroots stakeholders. “This has affirmed the correctness of our choice in response to the yearnings of the people for a Deputy Governorship candidate who is grounded in local realities”. The statement  said the decision  has been formally communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in keeping with extant electoral guidelines, and necessary formalities concluded. In his remarks, the governorship candidate, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji described the nomination of Afuye as a very strategic move to bolster the chances of the party at the polls. Oyebanji said, “I am most excited to welcome Chief (Mrs.) Monisade Christianah Afuye as my running mate for the upcoming elections. “Madam Afuye has been a part of the political structure in the state for many years now, and is an accomplished mobiliser and voice for the masses. I know her to be a woman of immense wisdom and generosity of spirit, and I am confident that she would be a great partner whose reach and connections with the grassroots would contribute to earning the mandate of the people and eventually running an inclusive and progressive government that works for all.” POLL Born on September 28th 1958, Afuye had her early education at Saint Joseph C.A.C Primary School Aramoko, Aramoko Ekiti, and Amoye Grammar school, Ikere-Ekiti – primary and secondary schools respectively. She earned her Ordinary National Diploma and Higher National Diploma in Public Administration from Crown Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State. Afuye is an accomplished entrepreneur, public servant, and community leader. She worked as a Catering Supervisor at the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti (1979-1985) after which she went into private business.  She is the Chief Executive Officer of Demolad Catering Services, and was until her nomination a member of the Governing Council of the Bamidele Olomilua University of Science and Technology, Ikere Ekiti. Afuye, a formidable grassroots politician, is a member of the Ekiti APC State Executive Council as the State Women Leader. A Princess of Ikere who straddles two royal households in the Kingdom, Afuye holds the traditional title of Okinlua (Head of all Princesses) of Ikere-Ekiti. She is married with children and grandchildren. In her remarks, Afuye thanked the leaders of the party and all stakeholders for the confidence reposed in her, and promised to maintain open doors and listening ears to ensure victory at the polls, and to subsequently work collaboratively to ensure the voices and perspectives of people at the grassroots are included in the planning and implementation of programmes and policies when a new APC administration is inaugurated. Soludo Champions Campaign For ‘Made In Anambra… House Of Reps Aspirant Seeks Unity In Osun APC She said, “Your agitations have resulted in our leaders nominating me to be your voice, to ensure the things important to you the masses in the grassroots are given priority. I look forward to working with our candidate, Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO) to build on the great development legacies of Dr Kayode Fayemi. I will not disappoint you.”