ABUJA – The National Agriculture Land Development Authority (NALDA), has empowered 300 youths and women with cows and goats in Kano State, as part of its empowerment programme. The benefitting youths, who are rehabilitated drug addicts, were given cows to the rear as part of measures to engage them meaningfully while women were given goats. NALDA, in collaboration with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and Salamah Youth Empowerment and Enlightenment Initiative, gave out cows and goats to 300 youths and women in Central Abattoir, Kofarmazugal, Kano, while promising that another 200 people would benefit under the first phase of the exercise in March, 2022. NALDA To Engage 400 Youths In Wheat Farming In Gombe Gombe Partner FG To Increase Wheat Production In Nigeria In the empowerment exercise, I00 women got three goats each while 200 youths received one cow each. Speaking during the presentation ceremony, Prince Paul Ikonne, Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of NALDA, said the first phase of the programme in Kano State would involve the empowerment of 500 youths and women. Ikonne explained that NALDA’s empowerment programme has been ongoing, as the establishment of the Integrated Farm Estates in some States in Nigeria by the Authority is part of the empowerment programmes of the Federal Government. He said these beneficiaries would be trained on animal husbandry and financial management to enhance their ability to manage their businesses. He said: “An organisation that has been rehabilitating children from drugs is organising them for empowerment, if they are left without empowerment, they would go back to drug taking. POLL “And it is President Muhammadu Buhari’s interest to ensure that we reduce drug addiction and create employment in the country. “So, this is one of the ways of keeping them out of drugs and engaging them meaningfully. “We have empowered the first 300 people, the remaining 200 will be done soon in the first phase in Kano by March,” Ikonne assured that this intervention would be replicated in various states across the country, while urging other organisations to reach out to these drug addicts, with a view to rehabilitating them. He added that NALDA would engage them in meaningful activities to generate income through various agricultural value chains. Adamawa Communities Donate Land To NALDA For Wheat Production,… PMB Directs Agencies To Synergize With NALDA To Diversify… Commenting on the supervision of the empowered men and women, Ikonne said since the beneficiaries were registered with the organisation, it would be easier for an organisation to monitor their activities. According to him, “The organisation becomes our watchdog, and the NDLEA that has rehabilitated the beneficiaries is also part of the process, that makes the monitoring easier because there are organisations on the ground working with us. “In the next three months, they would have sold the cows and the money put in the poll, and another set of cows will be given to them, so the profit goes to them and the capital is re-invested. “That is why doing it in a cluster with an organisation is the best. “Now, this is done in an abattoir, and inside the abattoir, they have an association, then supervised by these organisations, so it makes it easier for us to monitor. “As they keep revolving the fund, it makes it easier for us to empower more people and encourage more people not to go into drugs. “But for women given goats, they will rear them for six months to one year depending on the size of the goats, but our key interest is on those that have been rehabilitated, that is the youths from the abattoir, they are the ones, we are looking at in three months. Also speaking, the initiator of Salamah Youth Empowerment and Enlightenment Initiative, Senator Naja’tu Bala Muhammed, representing Kano Central Senatorial District, while commending NALDA’s intervention, said the intervention is the best any parastatal has ever done in Kano State. According to Muhammed, “I have spoken a lot against this government of President Buhari, but I realise that there is the need for me to also start the change I crave for. “Then I initiated this programme with the NDLEA to rehabilitate our youths who were drug addicts, but we realised that if we must give them hope, we must show them that there is light at the end of the tunnel by meaningfully engaging them. “They underwent training after which I empowered them with the little fund we had, but thank God that Mr. President has finally keyed into this by introducing us to NALDA. “I must say that NALDA as far as people of Kano are concerned, is the best parastatal in the country, we have never seen a parastatal in Nigeria with such direct impact on the masses. “The beneficiaries will be trained by a Professor and they would be monitored for the next three months, as they will be given training on animal husbandry and financial management,” she said. The NDLEA Commandant in Kano, Alhaji Isah Muhammed, while commending NALDA for the initiative, said it has been discovered that youth idleness is one of the major causes of drug or substance abuse. “Anybody that does not have a source of income will certainly look for something that would make him forget his lack of vocation and most times, they turn to drugs. “This initiative by NALDA with the support of the President and the Salamah Foundation, that has seen youths being given means of livelihood, it is expected that their focus will now be on the means of survival given to them. “With this, they would now face their business while turning away from drugs, that is why NDLEA is happy to associate with NALDA to ensure that drug abuse is eradicated among the youth. “It is our hope that NALDA continues to assist because the intention is to empower 500 and since it is like a loan, they would be pressured to succeed, then others can be encouraged to benefit,” he said. One of the beneficiaries, Mr. Alima Adamu, who spoke in Hausa appreciated NALDA and the Foundation for the initiative, saying with the cow given, he can now enjoy a new lease of life. He, however, called for more organisations to emulate the kind gesture of NALDA, adding that more youths need such empowerment to enable them to earn a decent living and desist from drug abuse.