AWKA – Arc. Michael Maduakonam Okonkwo the Commissioner for Housing in Anambra state has explained why he is nursing the ambition to represent Orumba-North and South federal constituency at the House of Representatives in 2023. The Housing Commissioner who gave his reasons during an exclusive interview with our correspondent in his office at the secretariat complex Awka, said he is coming to transform Orumba-North and South from infrastructural backwardness because not much is seen from the incumbent. He said it was the call of the people of Orumba-North and South that he should present himself for the onerous task to liberate as well as redeem the constituency from its current status quo. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award The commissioner said he was fully aware of the challenges facing Orumba-North and South and also prepared to fix them if he eventually got the endorsement and mandate of the people. He said, ” Orumba-North and South have been identified as the poorest local governments in Anambra state. Orumba-North and South are marginalised in the area of education, infrastructures and the like. Our lands are very fertile for farming but there is no provision for farmers to go beyond just feeding themselves. They can not make farming become great source of wealth because the environment is not right for them to do that. Infrastructure is a huge problem because just to move around Orumba-North and South, you find out that it is a difficult terrain. Although we thank Governor Willie Obiano because Orumba-North and South had no electricity for over 12 years but His Excellency came in and did that. That was actually when I realised that government can change the lives of the people.” POLL Okonkwo who was the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Awka Capital Territory Development Authority acknowledge the efforts of Hon. Ben Nwankwo, saying that he did his bid to bring Orumba-North and South to lime light but expressed worry that the incumbent was not doing enough to salvage the constiuency. He said it was the quest for a more qualified, tested and trusted individual that he heeded the call of the people of Orumba-North and South to represent them at the National Assembly in 2023, adding that his experiences as Housing Commissioner, Environment Commissioner and a lot more will enhance his performance at the Green Chambers, if elected.