One of the sons of the late Chief Anthony Anenih (Mr. Fix it), Oseyili Anenih, a Property Developer, warns that Nigeria should not make the mistake of electing another incompetent president that will further aggravate the suffering in the land in this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE. He also pointed out that the way to move the country forward is restructuring and power rotation. He spoke on other issues. Excerpt: How do you feel about the abysmal performance of the APC/ Buhari led government? Nigeria’s young population has been hardest hit by the failure of the APC. They shoulder the largest burden of the unemployed, are disproportionately the biggest victims of insecurity, are the ones at the frontlines risking and losing their lives fighting terrorists while their bosses sit safe in Abuja. It breaks my heart to see just how many young people have lost hope in this entity called Nigeria. They can no longer see a safe and prosperous future for themselves here. And it’s probably the most urgent task the next government will face: rekindling lost hope. 2023: Nnamani, Others Push For Ugwuanyi Presidency COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose As son of ‘Mr. Fix It’, are you throwing your hat in the ring for any of the elective positions in Edo state? I share my father’s belief that politics and governance are the greatest tools one can use to transform society. He was able to influence affairs outside elective office as a party chieftain, political appointee, and as an elder statesman. Today, a few but serious problems still exist within my community and across Nigeria that I believe can be solved using elective legislative seats. I have a very clear vision of how Nigeria needs to be restructured in a way that directly impacts the lives of my people. I know the infrastructural and socio-economic deficits we need to fill. And I believe I cannot, in good conscience, sit on the sidelines while my people suffer. So, yes, I will be running for a House of Representatives position in 2023. What are you bringing to the table in your area of interest? I mean in the position you are vying for? My background is a deep but varied one. I have a degree in mathematics which feeds my love for data and statistics as tools I use to not only identify problems but find solutions to them. I have two masters degrees in business and hotel management; so my worldview is one in which the private sector is the vehicle of economic prosperity and one in which citizens can pursue their dreams without the restrictive shackles of government. Professionally, I’m a project manager and property developer, so working to timelines and budgets to create lasting and sustainable value is second nature to me. I’m also an employer of labour, and I know firsthand how difficult it is for people to earn a living in an environment as difficult and challenging as ours. With our rich cultural history and beautiful land, Edo State and Esanland should be one of the tourist capitals of sub-Saharan Africa. It is also encouraging to see the focus of Governor Obaseki turn to these things, and I look forward to partnering with the government to build a tech economy and a hospitality hub. We need to create jobs, improve security and provide access to basic goods like water, healthcare, electricity and quality education. I believe I have the strength and aptitude to deliver interventions and legislation that will help bring these things to my people. As a prospective lawmaker, would you support state and local government creation in order to bring development and governance to the people? POLL Your question assumes that our dysfunction is caused by state creation. I don’t think creating a new state would automatically lead to sustainable development and improved governance. I think our problems are a bit more complex than that; and the right starting point should be a review of the constitution. Nigeria has to be restructured so states can control their own security forces and own the resources found above and beneath their land. I think a situation where a state cannot conduct a census makes no sense; because how do you plan? States do not control prisons; cannot register companies or have control over railways and aviation. The legal challenge posed by Rivers State over the VAT issue is an argument for true federalism, and pivoting back to your original questioning I can tell you that it is only in a restructured Nigeria we can begin to dream of attaining our potentials as a nation and as a people. The Niger Delta people, of which you’re one, have been clamouring for resource control, what is your take on it? It’s a fair and equitable agitation. The Federal Government recently created a fully funded window for illegal gold miners, mainly located in Northern Nigeria, to legally access the formal market with the PAGMI executive decree. I think it is commonsensical to create opportunities for local Niger Deltan communities to not just receive handouts but also take part in the safe and regulated extraction and production of minerals found under their feet. States should own their resources; and pay tax to a common pot that can be used to fund activities Abuja cannot relinquish – maintaining the military, for instance. How would you react to the seeming refusal of Governor Obaseki to ban open grazing in Edo State like other Niger Delta governors, and don’t you think it will encourage the influx of herdsmen from other states that had made laws against open grazing? Governor Obaseki has not refused to ban open grazing; and I think we need to be a bit more guarded in the language we use around what is understandably a very emotive subject. What are the facts? The fact is that Gov. Obaseki along with all the other state governors and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo developed and adopted the National Livestock Transformation Plan. This plan recognized cattle rearing as a profitable but private business enterprise and allowed states choose what part of the meat-production value chain they wanted to be involved in – whether it was growing feed for the cattle, or rearing the cattle in ranches or transporting and processing meat and dairy products. Of course some elements in government tried to hijack the NLTP and it was halted at the time. Obaseki has repeatedly said that Edo land will not be gifted to Fulani herders. Whoever wants to raise cattle should go and buy land, like all other business people do. Gov. Obaseki has committed to sending a holistic and enforceable bill on open grazing to his house of assembly, but that the bill must be a product of honest and open dialogue and consensus building. I need to stress here that we must distinguish between the decades old farmer-herder clashes; and the new emergent violence being unleashed across the state by armed criminal non-state actors. The Governor’s bill and the implementation of the NLTP will address the farmer-herder crisis; but the criminal-fueled insecurity will need a totally different strategy to resolve. States that passed populist knee-jerk anti-grazing laws continue to suffer attacks from Fulani bandits and farmers continue to be destroyed by rampaging herds of cattle. The primary duty of government is to secure life and property; and I believe Gov. Obaseki is not unaware of this responsibility. I mentioned the solution earlier and I’ll mention it again: we need state police if we want to end this insecurity. Gombe 2023: Contest Or Incur Our Wrath, Akko Youths Urge Dattuwa 2023 Benue Guber: I Have Undying Passion To Serve – Waya The youths of today are expected to be the leaders of tomorrow, right now tomorrow is here. What role are you expecting the youths to play in the coming elections? Elections in Nigeria are decided by women and youth. They are the ones that go out campaigning; they are the ones that come out and vote. Unfortunately some of them are also deceived by politicians to commit acts of electoral violence. I’m not a youth, but I stand at that bridge between the old and the young; so I can still empathize with their struggles and communicate to our leaders in language they will understand. Ahead of the 2023 general elections, I want our youths to ask questions. It was the electoral decisions we took in 2015 that brought in Buhari, APC and all this poverty, insecurity and suffering. Our youths need to interrogate the character and competence of anyone standing for elective office – including me! Nigeria is on the brink of collapse and we cannot afford to elect another set of incompetent leaders. I want to remind the youth that the dividends of democracy – whether good or bad – are largely carried by the youth. They need to get their PVCs and support candidates who will protect and promote their interests this time around. Why do political parties elect bad candidates? That’s a really good question. The office I’m running for has some really good aspirants, but also some terrible ones. The problem I think is the selection criteria in place to determine who gets the party ticket. And it’s a problem most parties are grappling with. Luckily, here in Edo, we have a governor, national vice chairman and state chairmen who are cerebral individuals; and who have all stated publicly their determination to ensure only the best candidates secure party tickets. I’m optimistic that the candidates Edo State PDP will field to contest the 2023 elections will be not just popular but of unimpeachable quality. Do you believe in power rotation as a means of uniting Edo State, especially Esan people? I do, 100%. I’m a member of the PDP and most people are unaware that the rotation of power is actually in the PDP Constitution. I think in diverse and multicultural societies with high poverty rates exist in tension; and political power rotation helps not only douse these tensions but fosters a sense of unity and shared purpose. At the national level we understand that if the North has held power for 8 years then the next president should be a southerner. Similarly, if Edo North has held power for 8 years; Edo South by 2024 will have held power for 8 years; it follows that the next governor of the state should be from Edo Central. I recognize that this is a moral argument, but I also strongly believe that it is respect for moral arguments like this that keep society functional and united.