LAGOS – The Bola Tinubu Support Organisation, BTSO, Lagos Chapter, has empowered 20 Indigent dwellers of the Bariga area of Lagos with a free health insurance package at an event held at the CMS Primary Health Centre, Bariga. This is in line with its goals of towing the footpath of Bola Tinubu’s humanitarian gestures of transforming lives for the better. The event which took place on Tuesday, February 8, 2022, was initiated by the BTSO group with the support and collaboration of the Lagos State Health Management Agency, LASHWA, designed to offer free health services to the poor through the Health Insurance scheme of the Lagos state government. According to Uchechukwu Igweonyia, Sales Manager, LASHMA, said the scheme is designed under what is called, ‘Ilera Eko’, at a cost of N8, 500 that enables the bearer to enjoy free primary health services for a whole year without incurring any other additional financial expenses. According to her, “The health insurance covers free treatment for primary health issues, such as; fever, blood pressure, minor surgeries, ante-natal, wound treatment and others covered under the primary health ailments.” Explaining further, Risi Sanusi, State Coordinator, BTSO, said, “We are teaming up with LASHMA to bring free health services to people at the grassroot level through an insurance scheme that will enable them to access free health services for a whole year. “It’s interesting to note that most of the people at the grassroot are not also aware of this scheme, so in a way, we are also creating an awareness of the existence of such a scheme so they can take advantage of it. “We choose Bariga Local Government Area because of its large population, the quality of its people, and the influence of our teeming members here. We ensured that the selection of beneficiaries is spread across people who are above 18, including the elderlies, disabled, youth, women, single, widows and widowers, using the local government officials who worked with our criteria to select the beneficiaries.” She added. POLL A sixty-eight years old beneficiary who gave his name as Oriyomi Odubonojo, a CDA executive member in Bariga, said, he was elated and was full of praises for the BTSO group who facilitated the free insurance scheme, with the privilege to enjoy free health services for the duration of one year. Madam Abike Alausa also appreciated the leadership of the BTSO group for providing the health insurance scheme with the accruable health benefits which she is set to explore before the expiry of the health insurance certificate given to her.