Russian-backed separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine have declared a full military mobilisation, a day after ordering women and children to evacuate to southern Russia because of what they said was the threat of conflict. Denis Pushilin, head of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, said in a video statement that he had signed a decree on mobilisation and called on men “able to hold a weapon in their hands” to come to military enlistment offices. Another separatist leader, Leonid Pasechnik, signed a similar decree for the Luhansk People’s Republic shortly afterwards. Putin Has ‘Made The Decision’ To Invade Ukraine – Biden Tunisia’s Powerful Labour Union Re-Elects Leader Separatist authorities earlier announced plans to evacuate about 700,000 people to neighbouring Russia, citing fears of an imminent attack by Ukrainian forces — an accusation Kyiv flatly denied. “We are fully committed to diplomatic conflict resolution only,” Ukraine’s Foreign Minister, Dmytro Kuleba, tweeted. Metadata from two videos posted by the separatists announcing the evacuation show that the files were created two days ago, according to the Associated Press. US authorities have alleged that a disinformation campaign by the Kremlin could include staged, prerecorded videos. Authorities began moving children from an orphanage in Donetsk, and other residents boarded buses for Russia. POLL Long lines formed at petrol stations as more people prepared to leave on their own. Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the government to offer a payment of 10,000 roubles ($180) to each evacuee, equivalent to about half of an average monthly salary in the war-ravaged Donbas region. Less than 7,000 people had been evacuated from Donetsk as of Saturday morning, the local emergencies ministry said. Ukrainian forces have been fighting pro-Russia rebels in eastern Ukraine since 2014, in a conflict that has killed some 14,000 people. With an estimated 150,000 Russian troops now posted around Ukraine’s borders, the long-simmering separatist conflict could provide the spark for a broader attack. Russia Trying To Provoke Ukraine’s Military To Attack,… Five Dead As Storms Batter Northern Europe The Ukrainian military said it had recorded 12 ceasefire violations by pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine in the morning after 66 cases in the previous 24 hours. Separatist authorities also reported what they said was shelling by Ukrainian forces of several villages. Both sides regularly trade blame for ceasefire violations. Monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe reported more than 600 explosions in the war-torn east of Ukraine on Friday. In a further indication Russia could be preparing for a major military push, a US defence official said an estimated 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the ground forces deployed in the vicinity of the Ukrainian border had moved into attack positions closer to the border. But other officials have said that shift has been underway for about a week, and does not necessarily mean Mr Putin has decided to begin an invasion. The Russian defence ministry said Mr Putin would oversee exercises by Russia’s nuclear forces involving the launch of ballistic and cruise missiles. Mr Putin pledged to protect Russia’s national interests against what it sees as encroaching Western threats. A senior US official called the decision “escalatory and unfortunate”. Asked about Western warnings of a possible Russian invasion on Wednesday that did not materialise, Mr Putin said: “There are so many false claims, and constantly reacting to them is more trouble than it’s worth.” “We are doing what we consider necessary and will keep doing so,” he said. “We have clear and precise goals conforming to national interests.”