Chelsea could be handed a double injury boost for the Carabao Cup final against Liverpool – with reports suggesting that Reece James is nearing a return to full fitness. The England full-back has been out since December with a hamstring injury and has missed 12 games across all competitions for Thomas Tuchel’s side. Centre-back Andreas Christensen filled in at right-back for Chelsea against Crystal Palace on Saturday ahead of the west London outfit’s Champions League tie against Lille on Tuesday. Chelsea Injury Hope With Mount ‘On The Mend’ Ahead Of League Cup… Busquets Says Having Aubameyang Is A ‘Luxury’ For Barca However, it has been claimed that James could make his injury comeback against Liverpool at Wembley next Sunday. Chelsea could be handed a double injury boost for the Carabao Cup final against Liverpool – with reports suggesting that Reece James is nearing a return to full fitness. The England full-back has been out since December with a hamstring injury and has missed 12 games across all competitions for Thomas Tuchel’s side. Centre-back Andreas Christensen filled in at right-back for Chelsea against Crystal Palace on Saturday ahead of the west London outfit’s Champions League tie against Lille on Tuesday. However, it has been claimed that James could make his injury comeback against Liverpool at Wembley next Sunday. POLL “Of course, it’s too long for Reece and for all of us. We miss him a lot. I had the feeling right from the very start that we had to deal with a big injury and unfortunately my feeling was right. “You always have a risk with a very physical player like Reece and a big muscle injury, that you have to consider there is a delay with the comeback, which is where we are right now. “He’s still in individual training, progressing a lot and doing almost everything you can do in individual training and we’re waiting for him. The plan is that he rejoins the group next week.” Chelsea were also without their captain Cesar Azpilicueta and long-term absentee Ben Chilwell for the victory over Palace.