Last week, we introduced a revolutionary concept that Results Don’t Lie. I established that life operates a feedback loop, an unbreakable chain between our efforts and results. Today’s article will explore the concept further and show you what to do to make the system work to your advantage. If results are life’s feedback loop, it means that results are message carriers from our customers about the quality of our products and services, our health about our dietary preferences and lifestyles, and our bosses about the quality of our jobs. Our results are like a good diagnostic test. A good diagnostic test not only shows you your current state of affairs but also reveals your past decisions and habits. It is a pointer to all the causes and effects, seeds and harvests, actions and reactions that we have put in motion so far. When we receive our results, we have two options—pay attention to what life is trying to tell us through our customers, bosses, and spouses or ignore them and continue on the same trajectory and hope that life will give us better results. The latter, in reality, is to delude yourself. And there are many self-deluded people out there. However, if you are wise, you will pay attention to results because wise people pay attention to results; stupid people explain away their performance. Wise people know that results don’t lie; stupid people ignore the truth their results reveal. Wise people know that accepting the bitter truth that their results reveal is the starting point of progress; stupid people repeat the classic definition of insanity—doing the same things and expecting different results. Rice O Compatriots: Dissecting Emefiele’s Rice Pyramids (2) Africa And The Return Of Men On Horses Back So what advice would I leave with you today? • Look at your results. Be brutally honest with your results. Remember the admonition of Winston Churchill when he became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, “Facts are more important than dreams.” You see, when you are just starting, it is good to dream. But once you have started, you need to balance dreams with facts. See your results as they are and not as you want them to be. • What are your results telling you? Results are like town criers; they do not have an opinion of their own. They simply inform the villagers what the palace wants them to know. Similarly, you need to ask yourself, “What is the information life, my boss, my customers want me to know based on my current results?” The biggest problem for many is the “depression” that this truth presents. This truth simply says you are responsible for the results in your life. No one else is responsible for where you are and how much you are earning. Not the Government. Not your parents. Not your siblings. For example, you are the one who ate the extra calories for many years and refused to exercise. Accept the fact that your obesity is more than your genes; it is your habit. If you accept it as genetic, there’s not much you can do about it. But if you accept that it is a function of your habits, then you can do something about that weight. (I am not downplaying all the other medical causes of obesity for which a physician would be necessary, but most cases boil down to excess calories and sedentary lifestyles). Every time we explain our results on something outside our control like our genes, our parents, where we are born, and all that, we disempower ourselves. But when we explain our results, whether we like them or not, on something within our control, we empower ourselves to make the changes necessary to improve the results. Imagine a Year 2 student who had poor grades in Year 1 telling himself, “I am in third-class now because all my lecturers did not like me in Year 1!” This explanation means there is nothing he needs to change to improve his results in Year 2. His poor performance is a function of his lecturers and not his efforts or strategy. There is not much you can do to help that student. His faulty explanation has guaranteed his future performance. People who are stuck and repeat the vicious cycle of failure are usually bound by faulty explanations of their situations. But if that student explains his third-class so that he agrees that he did not study hard in school or used a poor strategy, then he has a solution to his poor grades. The lesson is obvious: the explanation you give to your results will determine whether you will change them or remain in bondage to them. POLL The third most important question to ask yourself is: What do I need to do differently? If we need to change our results, we must change either our efforts or strategy. But changing our actions begins with accepting responsibility for the part we played to produce the poor results. One truth I have discovered is that people who cannot accept responsibility for their past mistakes cannot accept responsibility for their futures and possibilities. Your business can flourish. Your relationship with your boss can be improved. You can win back that customer. But the starting point is the discipline to accept responsibility for the part you played in the negative results you have produced and do something about it. Remember, Results Don’t Lie! • Dr Maxwell Ubah is a growth strategist, organisational transformation expert, and an executive leadership coach. He is a graduate of the prestigious Sloan Fellowship Programme in Leadership and Strategy from the London Business School.