ABUJA – The National Council on Privatisation (NCP) chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has approved the delisting of three privatised enterprises from routine monitoring activities of the Bureau of Public Enterpris­es (BPE). Ibeh Uzoma Chidi, Head, Public Communications, in a statement noted that this is after they had fulfilled their covenants as identified in the key performance indi­cators (KPIs) contained in the share sale and purchase agreement (SSAP) signed with the BPE. The companies are Fed­eral Superphosphate Fer­tiliser Company (FSFC), Ka­duna; Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), Sokoto, and Ikoyi Hotel (now Southern Sun), Lagos. Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari According to the state­ment, their delisting fol­lowed a request by BPE to NCP for approval at its maiden meeting for 2022 which held for two days (Monday, January 31, 2022 and February 1, 2022) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. In its request, the Bureau noted that it had carried out a review of the enterprises in line with BPE’s mandate to manage post-privatisa­tion issues of privatised public companies and was satisfied the core investors had ensured compliance with the covenants. BPE stated that it had developed standard pro­cesses and procedures for delisting privatised enter­prises which all privatised enterprises are bound to comply with before being recommended for delisting. In assessing the now del­isted enterprises, BPE said it reviewed all the data sub­mitted by the core investors in line with their KPIs as indicated in the SSPA and followed up with an on-the spot assessment of the com­panies to validate the data submitted which showed excellent performance. It would be recalled that FSFC was incorporated in September 1973 with an in­stalled capacity of 100,000 metric tons per annum and privatised in 2005. It was handed over to the core in­vestor, Messrs. HEIKO Con­sortium in January 2006. POLL While Ikoyi Hotel also called Nigerian Hotels Limited was established in 1932 and owned 100% by the Federal Government, was privatised through assets sale to BETA Consortium Limited with a bid price of $13,867,000.000 and handed to the investor in 2003. The Cement Company of Northern Nigeria Plc (CCNN), Sokoto, was com­missioned in 1967 with the Federal Government own­ing 45% shares of the com­pany. In 2000, the Federal Gov­ernment shares were di­vested through a strategic core investor sale/initial public offer. During its privatisation, an already existing shareholder and technical partner to CCNN, ScanCem/Dammnaz Inter­national Limited, emerged as the core investor of the company. In 2010, the com­pany was acquired by BUA International. The delisted enterprise will be presented with their discharge certificate later.