MAGNUS ONYIBE As Christian readers would recall in the Bible narrative, Samson, the very powerful man raised by God to deliver Israelites from bondage in Egypt got enchanted by Delilah, the Philistinian woman of easy virtue who was used to entice the hitherto invincible Samson into revealing the secret of his power, which is that his hair must never be shaved off. While Samson slept, Delilah shaved off his hair and his enemies, whom Delilah had delivered him into their hands, gouged out Samson’s eyes to further incapacitate him. As the story goes, Samson had to pull down the pillars supporting the auditorium where he was turned into a beast of burden, a caricature of his former self, and object of derision after the spirit of God departed from him. By doing so, he inevitably ended up killing everyone including himself. Can the APC that is currently a house of commotion owing to the multiple conflict points stemming from the disparate ethnic, regional, and religious tensions afflicting it be likened to the narrative about Samson and Delilah whereby Samson pulled down the roof of the auditorium with multitudes when his back was pushed against the wall and in the process killed everyone including himself? Would the likely unraveling of the ruling party at the center during or immediately after the scheduled February 26 convention scatter it; and is APC about to get its comeuppance, and by extension, would it have a cataclysmic effect on the polity? Aregbesola’s Anti-Omoluabi Ethos The Fiendish Ambush Of AdichieChimamanda At Her Mum’s Funeral The questions above are derived from the fact that the political upheavals of the dimension of internecine war that is fast gaining traction in our country’s political space, as those who pull the levers of power within the APC party, seem to have drawn the battle lines, which is quite foreboding. Would election 2023 be conducted with Electoral Act 2010, or the amended Electoral Act, 2022 awaiting presidential assent? Is the 2018 scenario whereby the proposed reform of the electoral act was suspended on the ground that it was too close to Election Day to embark on amendments, about to be re-enacted? The initial threat was the decision of the National Assembly, NASS in2021 to adopt direct primaries as the sole process for producing candidates for general elections in the ongoing electoral act amendment exercise. And the counter decision by President Buhari that the time is not ripe, hence he vetoed it became a sore point. While it was a potential tension point that was waiting to explode, NASS capitulated on the matter without the presidency breaking out in sweat as was speculated. And even as the president has been served exactly the food that he requested from NASS and the condiment, as he likes it, has been used in preparing the dish that has now been laid on his dining table, president Buhari is yet to consume the meal. As such the general election that has been programmed since the return of multiparty democracy in 1999 to hold every four years, of which the preceding activities that are due to commence this year, still remain in abeyance because the electoral bill that would make it happen, is yet to become an act of law without the assent of President Buhari , who is yet to lift his presidential finger to append his signature to the document that has been on the drawing board since 2018; and currently laid on his desk since the beginning of February this year. Ideally, at this point in time, the entire legal, financial and logistical framework for the next general elections to be held barely 12 months from today should have been signed, sealed, and delivered. The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC that is the umpire has been expressing concern. But as we say it in local parlance, it cannot shout! POLL lNEC cannot afford to raise its voice louder because most Nigerians believe it is more or less a parastatal of the presidency, despite its professed independence. In reality, if INEC leadership gets out of line, it may be clobbered in the head by Aso Rock. Hence mum seems to be the word. While the disquiet reigns, and the multiple political parties that formed the ruling party, APC are increasingly becoming multiple centrifugal forces threatening to pull the party, and by extension our country asunder, the ruling party, has practically been unable to rise above the storm that birthed it through the consolidation of five opposition parties-CPC, ACN, ANPP, APGA and splinter of PDP in 2013-15. The truth is that the malady has been long in coming as the APC which has been variously characterized as a Special Purpose Vehicle; SPV was bound to disintegrate if certain fundamental issues were not adequately addressed. Although the decision about who would be the party’s presidential flag bearer would not be made at the forthcoming convention, the contest for the leadership positions within the party is likely to be very fierce as the potential presidential candidates would be engaging in shadow and proxy fights. And an ugly outcome may be the beginning of the end of the ruling party which would by next year be eight (8) years at the helm of the political affairs in our beloved Nigeria and half of PDP’s sixteen (16) years reign. So can the ruling party at the center, APC be said to be on tenterhooks? That is the question begging for an answer and a puzzle which may only be resolved before or after the curtains fall on the convention if it is held on February 26, 2022. Concluded Onyibe, an Entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, Development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA, and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos.