There are high expectations regard­ing Nigerian banks in 2022 consider­ing their performance in 2021. But these expectations may end up in dis­appointment as banks’ growth may be impeded by several regulatory hurdles they are expected to face as well as a foreign exchange market that is damaged. A report by Tellimer Research, titled, ‘Nigerian Banks in 2022: Neither the Best nor the Worst of Times’, said the CBN will continue to use the cash reserve ratio (CRR) debits as its main monetary policy tool to the detriment of bank interest margins. The report said, “We expect our coverage to deliver an average ROE of 14.5 percent in 2022, vs 14.8 percent previously. The marginal drop in our forecast is based on slower expected growth in margins, accompanied by higher operating and regu­latory costs. Nigeria banks still have attractive dividend yields and discounted valua­tions – coverage tangible PB is at 0.5x, a discount to major SSA banking peers (Ghana – 0.8x, Kenya – 0.9x). Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari “However, with regulatory hurdles, a damaged FX mar­ket deterring foreign inves­tors and the expectation of higher interest rates in Nige­ria and globally – to the det­riment of equities – they are likely to remain undervalued. “We cut the earnings esti­mate for our Nigeria banks coverage by 4 percent in FY 22f on average, and an aver­age of 3 percent per year for FY 23f-25f. This reflects our ex­pectation for a smaller growth in net interest margins, due to the CBN’s cash reserve ratio (CCR) debits, its impact on liquidity and funding costs. We do not expect asset yields to rise as fast as funding costs. “Average yields on T-bills and OMO bills are low at 4.2 percent and 5.5 percent cur­rently, but are expected to increase towards the end of the year on the back of lower liquidity and an increase in government borrowing. “However, most of our banks have high exposure (30% of total securities) to the CBN’s low-yielding spe­cial bills, which will remain a drag on asset yields. With Basel III, banks with lower liquidity are further at risk of pressured margins, given the need to increase stock of high-quality liquid assets (FCMB, Fidelity and FBNH are most at risk). “We expect the more liquid banks such as GTCO and Ze­nith to prioritise loan growth in 2022, as loan yields are high­er than yields on securities. POLL “To diversify away from interest income (which still accounts for 60 percent of op­erating revenues), we expect the banks to continue pushing out digital banking solutions – although near-term head­winds exist – following the approval-in-principle of pay­ment service bank licences for MTN Nigeria and Airtel. “We expect trading reve­nues to grow marginally, due to our expectation for further naira depreciation over our forecast horizon, and any de­preciation will be positive for our coverage banks (as most of our banks have long posi­tions to the USD, including swaps). We expect operating costs to increase, given Nige­ria’s significant inflationary pressures. This will be further worsened by regulatory costs such as AMCON and NDIC expenses that grow in line with total assets and deposits. “From our conversations with the banks, the CBN’s moratoriums on COVID-re­lated restructured loans end­ed in March 2021, with only loans given via the CBN’s intervention scheme allowed to be extended. As we expect­ed, industry NPLs remained under control at 4.9 percent in December 2021, compared to 6 percent a year earlier. “We do not expect a large-scale asset quality deteriora­tion in 2022, given Nigeria’s improved economic environ­ment. Also, oil and gas loans are in a better place with oil prices at $89/bbl, which is pos­itive for banks, as the sector makes up 26 percent of total bank loans. Nevertheless, there are still risks to asset quality, particularly from the rising spread of new COVID variants and possible disrup­tions as 2022 is a pre-election year”. Historically, Nigerian banks have shown the ability to preserve their net interest margins in different interest rate cycles. Senegal Defeat Egypt, Win Africa Cup Of Nations Buhari, Ethiopian PM Ahmed Meet Over Rising Spate Of Coups In… However, this dynamic has been hampered by the CBN’s CRR debits. Cash reserves with the CBN have grown 94 percent since the introduction of the minimum loan to de­posit ratio in July 2019 to N10 trillion. This is 35 percent of total local currency deposits. The debits have also significant­ly reduced financial system liquidity, resulting in an in­creased uptake of expensive interbank and term deposits for funding. Unfortunately for the banks, the CRR debiting trend will continue. At the latest MPC meeting, the CBN governor implied that the committee has no reason to contemplate a rise in the monetary policy rate, as the administration of CRR deb­its is giving the results they require. “We expect the full effect of this shift to high-cost deposits to be reflected in 2022, even as the CBN continues to hit the banks with CRR debits. “Given the pressure on li­abilities, a number of banks began repricing rates on ex­isting loans to mitigate the margin shortfall; however, the rate of increase in loan yields q-o-q in 2021 was lower than the rise in funding costs across our coverage. “Nigerian banks mostly lend to corporate customers (60% of loans), who are more sensitive to changes in loan rates than SMEs/retail custom­ers. Over 70 percent of GTCO, Stanbic and FBNH’s lending is to corporates”, they said. Financial analysts said there will be competition to book good-quality loans, which will limit the growth in loan yields. The CBN’s intervention loans still attract an interest rate of 5 percent. “We expect yields on invest­ment securities to improve slightly, but still be weighed down by the CBN’s special bills”, the analysts said.