GOMBE – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State has asked the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State to search within its fold for the perpetrators of last Tuesday’s vandalization of their offices within the State capital by arsonists. Gombe town, Tuesday morning (01/02/2022) woke up to the news of the vandalization of PDP Secretariat, office of the Northeast Business Communities of Atiku for President 2023, as well as ‘Zangong Gwamna’, office, an APC resting shade for supporters of Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya by unknown arsonists which raised political tension. Reacting to the development, the State APC through its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Moses Kyari, in a press conference asked the PDP to search for culprits of their vandalized offices as well as that of the APC within the members of the PDP. Kolawole Will Return PDP To Power In Ekiti -, Taiwo-Adebakin Oyo PDP Commiserates With Folarin Over Wife’s Death He said the PDP is in disarray, coupled with the internal intrigues between members which is making them spew utterances against each other stressing that these are what instigated the burnings. According to him, the recent utterances of a known PDP stalwart and a two-term former Speaker of the Gombe State House of Assembly, Inuwa Garba, must be factored as the remote causes of the destruction of PDP’s properties. He said, “just last weekend, a stalwart and former Speaker of the Gombe State House of Assembly, made inciting statements capable of precipitating chaos within the party and within our communities. ” He said Fulani and Hausa people are not indigenous to Gombe State and that Governor Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya is not disposed to the people of Gombe South Senatorial District. POLL “These words of his could have triggered such clash. Already, our party has written a petition with documentary evidence of the perpetrators of the ‘Zangon Gwamna’ destruction to the Police to help them in their investigation”. While calling on the PDP to play politics with decorum and decency, he absolved his party saying, “our party the APC did not and will never engage in arson and violence to attain political gains. “We are calling on citizens of Gombe State to remain calm as government is on top of the situation. Our peace-loving Governor will go to any length to protect and promote the peace we are enjoying”, he stated. Following this development, the Gombe State Police Command in a release after its meeting with parties involved in the incident, warned that it is not yet time for political campaigns, as such, anyone or group found wanting will be dealt with according to the law. The release which was made available to newsmen by the Command’s PPRO, Obed Mary Malum (SP), on behalf of the State Commissioner of Police, Ishola Babatunde Babaitan, called on all aggrieved parties to remain calm and law-abiding and cooperate with the Command while effort is on top gear to unravel those behind the heinous act. Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC Presidency 2023: I Will Contest If PDP Zones Ticket To South… It explained that “some unidentified miscreants at about 1130pm on 31st January 2022 and early morning of 1st February 2022 burnt down APC Stand at Shongo Idrisa along Airport road, PDP State Secretariat opposite Bauchi Park and Atiku for President 2023 North East Business Community offixe along Bauchi road”. Similarly, the Gombe State Government through the Commissioner of Information and Culture, Julius Ishaya Lapes, condemned the attack which it described as the ugly activities of some political thugs. It said the thugs acted under the clear instruction and supervision of the enemies of the peace-loving people and Government of Gombe State by setting ablaze an APC office and another political party’s office. Mr. Julius said, “this show of desperation is the trademark of some power and blood-thirsty people who lost control of the State treasury and are hell-bent on returning, and so have resorted to unleashing violence on the peaceful polity of the State which is the envy of other states”. According to him, “We wish to remind all and sundry, irrespective of political affiliation that we are in a democracy and the only means of getting to power is through the ballot box which time is yet to come. “We also wish to state categorically clear that the Government of Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya will continue do everything to ensure the protection of people’s lives and property”. While assuring that all the perpetrators of the act will be brought to book, he said, “We wish to commend the security agents for promptly bringing the situation under control. “We will continue to give all security operatives in the state the needed support to deal decisively with everyone that will bring about the breaking of peace In the State. “For the avoidance of doubt, our Government will not spare anybody regardless of his or her position who intends to disrupt the current peaceful coexistence which this government labored to create and sustain. “In the meantime, we want to encourage the peace-loving and law-abiding citizens of the State to continue following the path of peace in their respective endeavors and be law abiding in all their dealings”, the commissioner’s statement stressed.