**Asks Party To Focus On Candidates With Vision ABUJA – The former Imo State governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha has cautioned the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) against going into the 2023 elections without resolving thorny party issues. Semator Okorocha gave the warning on Tuesday in Abuja when he spoke to Senate Correspondents. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks The lawmaker said the governing party could run into an expensive litigation capable of draining its coffers if it goes on with plans for the election. “But, if we go into Election at this time and of course it will open a Pandora of litigations because where 1000 people buy nominations form, APC can make an income of N2 billion on sales of forms and after that, APC can spend N3 billion on litigations,” he stressed. He also proffered solutions to crisis rocking the party which has led its leadership to repeatedly postpone its national convention. Okorocha suggested that founding leaders of the party across the original four blocks should be allowed to nominate interested party members for sensitive positions such as National Chairman, Secretary , Women Leader, Youth Leader, Organising Secretary etc . This is as he suggested that President Muhammadu Buhari being the leader of the CPC block should be given the honour of deciding who becomes the next National Chairman of the party. POLL He also revealed that “others like Senator Bola Tinubu of the defunct ACN block, Ogbonnaya Onu of the defunct ANPP block, himself as leader of the APGA faction then, should also be honoured of deciding National Secretary and other important positions.” He said that the sharing formula will help prevent the APC from implosion. He said, “Our party is a great party, APC is a great party, what is wrong with our party is that we have forgotten how we all started, we should not make the mistake of PDP of the old and I think that will be corrected with the party’s Convention now slated for March 26 , 2022. “What we need to do is to go back to basis so that we adhere to the culture of Unity and equity the party was known for at formation in 2013. “There were four political parties that formed APC. CPC led by the former Head of States, Mohammadu Buhari who is now the President of Federal Republic of Nigeria, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu came with (ACN) , Governor Abdulaziz Yari , Senator Alimodu Sheriff (SAS) and Former governnor of Ebonyi state, Ogbona Onu who is now Minister of Science and Technology and Rochas Okorocha leading the APGA. 2023: Ganduje Under Fire Over Remarks About Tinubu Electoral Act: Let’s Give Buhari Few More Days –… “Our initial position was that all positions would be shared among these four parties and DPP that came with few members and after the merger, the new PDP joined. “Now, the wisest thing for all of us to do is to go back to the founding basis and distribute the political positions as we did it that time and there will be no rancour and it will be very peaceful. “The father of the party now is President Muhammadu Buhari who should be given that respect to pick the person that will hold Sensitive position in the party as Chairman, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu should always be made to produce some key positions in the party and the other parties and should also be made to have positions and when this is done there will be no problem in APC. Senator Okorocha pointed out “So the wise thing to do is to call the founding fathers of the party and give them key positions and carry everyone along , including the new people that joined the party.” He further urged the APC to look for aspirants with vision, noting that, “what is important to us now as a nation is to have a leader with a vision and not ambition and a leader who can see beyond 2023. That is vision. Let the man with vision and the man who can make this nation great not in theory but in practical, let him lead this country. 14.5 million out of school children, insecurity has attained a worrisome height. And that this nation only makes 5.5 trillion every year how will you fund your budget of N15 trillion. Which go beyond age, what health has done. This is the same old politics we have been playing. The same style of governance, which is giving us the same old result. Can we do something more practical. If I find someone who has something to offer more than I can offer this nation, I subsume my ambition. We need leaders and not managers. We need leaders that can think outside the box. That’s where I come in.” On Zoning, the lawmaker regretted that “it is known to distort history. There were three tripods in upon which this nation was built- Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba. When the South-South brothers can say they can say the people that since inception should be given a sense of belonging, it will promote effective unity. Other than that I’m not in support of rotation because power is not bread that should be shared.”