LAGOS – Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor, has disclosed that there are on-going plans by the state government to develop a Medical Park in the State to attract medical tourists and make Lagos a Medical tourism hub in the Sub-region. He stated this while speaking during the Launch of Duchess Royal Medical Check Up, an exclusive 3-day Comprehensive Total Body Health Screening and Wellness Programme packaged in collaboration with the Lagos Marriot Hotel at the Weekend in Ikeja. Citing the National Association of Residential Doctors (NARD), Dr. Hamzat stated that about N576 billion ($1.2 billion) is lost to medical tourism yearly in Nigeria, and that this intervention is one attempt to stem the ugly tide and make Nigeria grab a large slice of the global medical tourism market size, primarily driven by the increased demand for cheap treatment for various diseases available in the developing countries, which was estimated at USD 102.6 billion in 2020. Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… Ebonyi Assembly Declares Deputy Speaker’s Seat Vacant,… Speaking further, the deputy Governor added that to redress the wave of outbound medical tourism, the State Government has continued to commit funding to the health Sector in ensuring universal coverage for which quality is an essential component. He emphasized that the improvements include not just the physical structures of the health facilities but also provision of specialized care, improving the capacity of health workers and incorporating quality improvement process. The Deputy Governor said, “As a responsible government, we do understand and acknowledge the important role that private sector plays and therefore we are delighted with this ground-breaking partnership between Duchess International Hospital and the Lagos Marriot Hotel. “As a responsive government, “Lagos State Government has over the time created an enabling environment for private health establishment through the Office of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) and Office of Sustainable Development Goals and Investment; and therefore it is our belief and hope that such relationships will help to propel the state towards becoming an attractive destination for medical service provision and reduction in medical tourism”, he stated. While noting that the collaboration potentially will open windows of opportunity for those who regularly seek for the service overseas and provides the opportunity to save the much-needed foreign exchange usually committed to such activities, the Deputy Governor, encourage them to strive to guarantee that quality is maintained during their process and ensures that financial barriers are minimized. POLL Dr. Yemi Onabowale, Chairman, Duchess International Hospital earlier in his address, disclosed that the hospital is positioned to deliver clinical excellent and hospitality service with the aim to provide medical attention people go overseas for. According to the Chairman, “The Duchess Medical Check-Up programme is aimed at reversing medical tourism in the country and restore trust and confidence by providing strong clinical governance. It combines excellence in healthcare with a unique experience of hospitality and offers the reassurance of a robust clinical assessment with maximum flexibility and convenience. He therefore thanked the Lagos State Government for the support so far enjoyed by the hospital. Also in his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Duchess International Hospital, Dr. Adetokunbo Shitta-Bey, disclosed that the Duchess Medical Check-Up and Wellness Programme is an in-depth and comprehensive health and wellness evaluation, comprising a 3-day full-body medical assessment and complete clinical evaluation in the environment and comfort of Duchess Royal Suites. He added that the programme entails the use of the most advanced testing technology and specialized medical expertise to deliver the best clinical outcomes on behalf of the clients based on their lifestyle, age and complete medical history.