‘Why must tenants at the complex who have paid good money for shops with pleasant ambience suffer because of the greed and graft of their landlords, because of disagreement between parties at the complex?’ The beauty that the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex is, is currently being speedily destroyed. Structures are, as I write, being indiscriminately erected in car parks by managers of the complex! With impunity, these managers, to beat contesting parties who vowed not to allow such nuisance take place, they build structures overnight, so say. One good example is one built during the recent Christmas and New Year holidays on Adamawa Plaza car (Balogun Traders Association section) which has reached roof level! My Agenda For IoD Centre… – Shuaibu Idris Flights Are Delayed, Cancelled Due To Safety Reasons – Air Peace… You begin to wonder why in this age, some group of people think it is appropriate to erect buildings in parks built to facilitate free-flow of traffic at this international trade complex. Many other cars parks along access roads have all been turned into loading parks. Why? Loading parks meant for international customers (ECOWAS customers) have been sold out! This is not short of turning this pride of the West Coast to another congestion-ridden Lagos Island Balogun Market. They have forgotten, so soon, that they had to move out of appalling Balogun Market to this Lagos-Badagry modern trade complex endowed with sweet ambience. Must this complex be messed up because government has said it would re-concession the property? Can this uncivilized action arm-twist government? Can it stop government from carrying out what it has decided to do if it has candid reasons for its action? Doubtful. On the other hand, why must tenants at the complex who have paid good money for shops with pleasant ambience suffer because of the greed and graft of their landlords, because of disagreement between parties at the complex? Why must tenants be short-changed? Why must consumers/ customers from across the country and from the West Coast, who patronize the complex be stressed by traffic jam that will be a spin-of the current thoughtless action of the complex managers? Why must they be made to lose time? Why must they lose money? It would be recalled that the Federal Government announced in February 2021 that it was set to concession the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex as well as the Tafawa Balewa Square, and the Calabar and Kano Special Economic Zones. The plan was disclosed by the Head of Public Communications a t the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Amina Othman, who announced the bureau would hold an International Investors’ webinar on the four concession opportunities. POLL A concession is a form of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) where a government-owned asset is being operated and maintained by a private investor for a period of time on terms contained in a concession agreement. The BPE action was challenged by not less than 61 investors, who alleged they secured different development lease agreements from the federal government through the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and Trade Fair Management Board (TFMB). To get things right, BPE appointed a consultant (Messrs Feedback Infrastructure Services) “to advise it on the way forward.” It took this action as the initial lease arrangement with Aulic Nigeria turned awry. The concession was valued at N40 billion and was to be paid over 30 years. Now, government has lost money on the deal. In revoking the concession in 2017, the BPE stated that the concessionaire defaulted on its contractual obligations. Among other claims, it allegedly owed N6.5 billion as rent collected, sub-leased the premises to third parties and had no management structure in place, all contrary to the terms of the agreement. Aulic denies these accusations, arguing that the National Council on Privatisation, chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, wrongly terminated the contract. Established during the oil boom years, the LITFC was conceptualized to go with the economy that was growing rapidly then. With the Lagos State Government, the Federal Government and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry collaborating on it, the fair offered a profitable platform for manufacturers, suppliers, buyers and users of a wide range of goods and services, as well as opportunities for investment and trade promotions. How Best To Implement Nigeria’s New Agricultural Policy – Chuka… Top 20 Emerging Filmmakers Shortlisted For Netflix &… As argued earlier, it is a different kettle of fish today what with structures springing up in car parks an action that negates the blueprint of this pride of the nation. All that matter to those in charge of affairs at the complex is money that will be made. Money, money, money. For them, to hell with those who dare challenge them. And with such disregard for decency, Aulic Nigeria will want us believe all is well with the complex! What is holding BPE back from executing its planned reconcession? Why is the town planning authority lame duck on this very important environmental challenge? They need to wake up and take the desired action now.