Roma boss Jose Mourinho has been handed a two-match touchline ban in Serie A and fined €20k (£16.5k) following his sending off against Hellas Verona. The Portuguese coach was sent-off on Saturday and has now earned a fresh suspension alongside his goalkeeping coach Nuno Santos. It is not the first time Mourinho has seen red this season for Roma, having been dismissed against Napoli in Serie A earlier this game having been booked twice by the officials. Champions League: Chelsea 1, Lille 0 Chelsea FC XI Vs Lille: Starting Lineup Confirmed The coach was also dismissed in a friendly defeat to Spanish side Real Betis before the game began, in an encounter when he tried to enter the pitch to confront the referee. Mourinho was sent-off again on Saturday and is alleged to have shouted towards referee Luca Pairetto: “They sent you on purpose, Juve sent you…” Mourinho booted the ball away in frustration as tensions boiled over ( Image: Matteo Ciambelli/DeFodi Images via Getty Images))Pairetto is the son of a former referee Pierluigi Pairetto who was involved in the 2006 Calciopoli investigation and Mourinho’s telephone gesture on Saturday appeared to be motivated to Pairetto’s father’s phone calls with then-Juve director Luciano Moggi. As Roma Press cite Il Tempo as reporting, goalkeeping coach Santos has also been handed a two-match suspension while General Manager Tiago Pinto will also be unavailable until 8 March. That means the quartet will miss the upcoming Serie A fixtures against Spezia and Atalanta, where Salvatore Foti is expected to take charge of first-team affairs. POLL It was another eventful evening for Mourinho, who saw his heavily depleted side battle back from two goals down to rescue a point at home to Hellas Verona. The Giallorossi were two goals down after 20 minutes as Antonin Barak and Adrien Tameze struck for the visitors but rallied in the second half as young substitutes Cristian Volpato and Edoardo Bove struck to rescue a point. Having been tetchy all during the match, Mourinho’s frustrations boiled over as the game ticked into injury time and with his home side pushing for a dramatic winner. The episode began with Mourinho pointing at his head while shouting at the referee, hinting that he was making bad decisions during the game. Mourinho then dramatically took a ball on the touchline and booted it high into the area – which gave referee Pairetto no option but to send him off.