ABUJA – Moves by the National Assembly to review the 1999 Constitution has seen Original Inhabitants of Abuja, asking the legislators to vote in favour of establishment of a mayor for the nation’s capital. They also want the 9th National Assembly to vote in favour of elected Mayoral Assembly to make laws for the FCT, rather than a situation where all legislative duties concerning the FCT are vested under NASS as currently constituted. The National Assembly is expected to commence voting for the clause-by-clause amendment of some sections of the 1999 Constitution on Tuesday. NSCDC Parades Three Suspects For Alleged N2m Fraud How Ashaolu, PDP Chieftain, Died According to Lazarus Nyaholo on behalf of the Original Inhabitants of Abuja, section 297 to 307 should be replaced by Establishment of a Mayoralty for FCT with an elected Mayor and Mayoral Assembly which will now replace the President by designating FCT Minister as the Governor of FCT and National Assembly as the FCT Legislators respectively as against the status of executive and legislative functions respectively vested on the President and the National Assembly. He also noted that section 147(1) which deals with appointment into Federal Executive Council (i.e., Ministers) The clause that provides for appointment of “Ministers at least one each from the 36 states of the Federation” should be amended to add “and the FCT”. He said by this, the people of FCT will have a representation in the Federal Executive Council. “Let me, however, make it very clear here or rather disabuse the minds of some people that, we are not asking for an original inhabitant of FCT to be appointed the Minister of FCT, no, but a member of the Federal Executive Council who can also be posted to any Ministry to serve. If the Mayoral Council is established, the office of the FCT Minister will automatically seize to exist,”he stated. Speaking to reporters on Monday at the Secretariat of the Centre for Transparency Advocacy CTA,Nyaholo said all federal and state legislators have an opportunity to write their name in gold by voting (yes) whenever the clauses for review are mentioned. POLL He said, “As we are all aware, God grace, tomorrow the members of both chambers of the National Assembly will be voting for amendment of some clauses and sections of the 1999 Constitution. “Of great interest to us, we wish to use this platform to appeal to all the Distinguish Senators, Honourable Members of the Federal and State Assemblies to uphold the citizenship of original inhabitants of FCT being Nigerians like every citizen of Nigeria by voting (YES) for the amendment of these sections of the Constitution to give the original inhabitants of FCT a sense of belonging as the first citizens of Nigeria that have sacrificed their identity, homes, economy, social and political status by giving up their land and providing a peaceful atmosphere for the unity of this country. “History will surely not forget the 9th Assembly for upholding their oath of office to uphold the Constitution and do good to all manner of people including justice for the original inhabitants of FCT”.