LAGOS – The residents of Mmahu, the autonomous community in Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State have accused Hon. Marcel Amadioha, the Interim Management Committee Chairman of the Local Government of causing unrest in the community. The community in a petition signed by Benjamin Tambari, its lawyer and sent to Sen. Hope Uzodinma, the Governor of the state and the Inspector General of Police, claimed that the chairman empowered cultist boys to act as vigilante group in the community, as against the wish of the people. According to the petition, the action of the Chairman led to crisis among some cult groups in the state, where no fewer than seven persons, including innocent residents were allegedly murdered in a mayhem that broke out. BREAKING: Law School Lagos Campus On Fire NGO To Raise N1bn Development Fund In Ago- Iwoye Prominent among those killed according to the lawyer was one Chief Athanasius Nwokocha, who was allegedly murdered on July 5, 2021 by one of the warring cult groups. The petitioners purported that since then, there had been numerous and continuous apprehension in the community, which had continued to breach public peace in the community. The community explained that the crisis had begun in 2020 Amadioha, was appointed as the Interim Management Committee Chairman of Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State, dissolved an existing town union leadership appointed by the community and unilaterally imposed a caretaker committee on the people of the community. The petition insisted that the imposition of a new town union was not only in flagrant violation of the law and against the will of the people of the community, but also against the directive given by Uzodimma, the Governor of the state. The petition added, “Governor Hope Uzodinma had on the July 27, 2020 at a Town Hall meeting with all the traditional rulers in Imo State, directed the traditional rulers of autonomous communities without elected leaders/executives to liaise with their respective community stakeholders and ensure the conduct of a proper and legitimate election to fill in the different vacant positions in their various town unions and other arms of community government.” POLL The lawyer alleged that the chairman also on October 11, 2021, mobilised a group of boys dressed in cult regalia suspected to be from other states and nearby communities to inaugurate them as vigilante group in Mmahu community, an action it said was vehemently resisted by the community.