President Mohammadu Buhari has enjoined youths and graduates of the Federal University Wukari (FUW), Taraba State to embrace technology and engage in Innovation that will add value to society. President Muhammadu Buhari, the Visitor to the Federal University Wukari in Taraba State gave the charge during the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th combined convocation at the university. Buhari, represented by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osibajo commended the University for widening its academic base by increasing the number of Faculties from 3 to 9 and urged the university to work diligently in collaboration with the private sector and relevant government agencies to ensure that they have the best possible teaching hospital facilities for the medical programme. PDP Governors Express Concern Over Unwillingness By Buhari To… Buhari Salutes Gov. Matawalle At 60 While congratulating the graduates on the successful completion of their various degree programmes, the President reminded them that they belong to one of the most resilient, dynamic and energetic populations. He, therefore, called on the students to take full advantage of the knowledge and skills acquired to innovate and make value addition. He disclosed that the Federal government is ready and willing to create an initiative that will create wealth, jobs and opportunities hence establishing initiatives programmes like the 75 Billion National Youths Investment fund and the Central Bank of Nigeria as creative sector funds. “In our determination to address Youths restiveness in Nigeria, I have recently approved the Investing in Digital and Creative Enterprises (IDICE) programme and over 600 million dollars to support young tech and creative sector entrepreneurs through the provision of finances, skills development, infrastructure and the Nigeria Jubilee Fellows programme that will begin this year 2022. Under the programme, 20, 0000 young graduates who have done the National Youths Service Corps will be given fully paid internships that will last for 12 months in reputable private and public organisations across the country. The idea is that participants will gain relevant carrier and life skills that will impact their lives and society. “The Programme will last for five years and will be funded by the Federal government, the UNDP and the European Union EU as digital technology is our part-way to accelerated growth.“Let it be that it is your generation that will bury once and for all these prejudices, heal the wounds and build a great society of brothers and sisters of different tribes”. POLL Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Jude Rabo, described the day as a great and special one in the lives of the graduates because it formally marks the end of part of the journey they started years ago. ” The University have found you all worthy and in learning and thus worthy of the award of the various degrees that will be conferred on you today. I rejoice with you, your parents and your friends for attaining this feat, you must note that this is a stepping stone to the future and you must prepare to make the best of it as you strive for excellence in your personal and professional endeavours.” At the convocation, 3,897 graduates of the university were conferred with Bachelor’s Degrees in various disciplines. The VC gave the breakdown as follows; Faculty of Agriculture and Life Sciences 672, Faculty of Humanities Management and Social Science 2,266, Faculty of Pure and Applied Science 1059. “One hundred seven students made First Class Bachelor’s Degrees out of 3,897. I, therefore, urge you as ambassadors of the University to represent the school well wherever you find yourselves. You must demonstrate a high sense of character and integrity because this is the basis for success in all endeavours”.Besides, the Vice-Chancellor disclosed that the institution in her quest for excellence has established a Centre for Distance Learning and introduced part-time programmes. Group Flays Femi Adesina’s Comment On Buhari, NDDC Buhari Joins Religious Leaders Begging ASUU To Discard Strike He added that the university has also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with two Institutions in India and the Innoson Group of Company in Anambra State with the view to enhance opportunities for both students and staff to engage with colleagues from across the globe. In his goodwill message, Taraba State Governor, Arc. Darius Dickson Ishaku represented by the Secretary to the Government (SGS), Hon. Anthony Jellason said his administration is committed to providing the necessary support for the University to expand its academic activities to meet not only the educational needs of the youths but to also contribute to the development of the state. \He called on the people of Wukari and its neighbouring Benue State to embrace the existing peace that the government was able to restore in the area and the state at large. Also speaking, the Chancellor of the University, the ONA of Abaji and Chairman of FCT Council of Chiefs, HRM Alh. (Dr) Adamu Bala Yunusa said the numbers of projects commissioned in the school are eloquent testimonies to the administration prowess of the major stakeholders in the university.