LAGOS – Kebbi State Commissioner for Sports, Honourable Aliu Bello has said that the recent qualification of the state’s U-16 team for the Quarterfinals of the ongoing Ramat Cup is evidence of what Governor Atiku Baguda is doing to develop grassroots sports in the state. Kebbi State on Thursday lost 4-2 through a penalty shoot-out to FCT, after a1-1draw at regulation time. Having tailed a semifinal ticket to book a place in the last four of the most popular, oldest and most glamorous grassroots football tournaments in the country which is in its 39th edition and Bello believes that Governor Baguda must be appreciated for giving sports priority attention in the state. “I’m particularly happy with what the team has done so far which shows an improvement of the part of the technical crew and players and I want to urge them to continue improving on the subsequent outing of theirs until they bring glory to the state. Ghana, Rwanda, Senegal Partner BioNTech to Produce Vaccines Labor Market Dominates U.S. Earnings Calls -Goldman Kostin “It’s equally important to state that the result we’re getting today is because of the governor’s passion for sports. This is a governor whose love for sports made the state sign an MoU with coaches that will lead to the establishment of a football academy where talents would be harnessed for both league teams and the various national teams. “Right now, the state has attracted FIFA goal project and the ultra-modern state stadium will soon be commissioned,” he declared. Speaking in the same vein Senior Special Adviser (SSA) on Sports to the Governor, Babangida Seriki was full of praise to the governor for his support to grassroots sports development in the state; saying that prosperity will always remember him. Seriki who also doubles as Kebbi State Youth Sports Federation of Nigeria (YSFON) Secretary expressed confidence that very soon the state will take back its rightful position in sports in the country even as he charged the team to remain focused as that’s the only way to success. Earlier in the day, host Kano beat the defending champion, Kwara state by 2-0 to book their semifinal ticket. Ogun ousted the El-Rufai boys by 13-11penalty shoot out after a 3-3 regulation time. Gombe outscored their Jigawa counterpart 3-1 to play in today’s semifinal. POLL However, the semi-finals will be decided today at the pillars stadium. With the grand final scheduled for the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano on Saturday.