Abuja – Salihu Mohd Lukman, former Director-General of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), has cried out to President Muhammadu Buhari that the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) was undermining the February 26 national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), leaving leaders of the party in pains. In an open letter to the president, Lukman said that the CECPC has turned to APC’s undertaker going by the way it was going about the preparation for the party’s national convention and activities generally. He observed that based on the schedule for the convention, the forms for the various party positions ought to be on sale and subcommittees to organise the convention released, lamenting that all the arrangements had been observed in breach by the CECPC. Davido Disburses N250m To 292 Orphanage Homes IPOB Sit-at-Home Records Compliance In Ebonyi Lukman, who described himself as a freelance APC campaigner, wondered why the party has refused to zone its offices with less than ten days to the national convention. “Based on the schedule of the convention as issued by the CECPC Secretary, Sen. Akpanudoedehe, on January 19, 2022, sale of forms to all aspirants is supposed to commence on February 14, 2022. As it is today, February 15, 2022, forms are not available anywhere and the excuse from all available sources is that unless zoning of offices to be contested are decided, forms will not be available. Why has the CECPC not conclude on zoning up till now? When will they conclude on it? “Looking at the schedule of the convention, the CECPC is expected to publish convention sub-committees on Saturday, February 19, 2022. The question is, has the sub-committees been setup and are already working? If they have, what are these sub-committees and who are the members? If not, when will they be setup? What are the details of these committees and their mandates, which are to be implemented within less than one week to the convention? “Your Excellency, the way the CECPC is approaching the organisation of the national convention gives enough ground to suspect internal sabotage. Is leadership of the CECPC working to ensure that the convention doesn’t hold on February 26, 2022? Recall that initially, the convention was scheduled to hold December 28, 2021. POLL “Through consultations, it was moved to February 5, 2022. Unfortunately, we found ourselves, as a party, in the embarrassing situation of having to contend with speculation about alleged ambition of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni to manipulate his emergence as the substantive national chairman of the party, which means reluctance to organise the national convention and hand over to an elected leadership. Somehow, here we are, from February 5, 2022, the convention had to be moved to February 26, 2022.” He noted that “some sponsored media campaigns were openly promoted to canvass for these positions. Although the alleged ambition of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni, to emerge as the substantive national chairman is very difficult to believe, with the way the leadership of CECPC under his watch is sluggishly handling organisation of the national convention, it gives strong credibility to the speculation. “Your Excellency, we are faced with a very critical situation, as a party. Sadly, we have some leaders in our party, including the leadership of the CECPC who believe that they can manipulate every situation to impose their choices on the party without going through the needed processes as established in the constitution of the APC. “We can’t be a party of change and overlook situations whereby these very leaders continue to take us and the country back to the dark days when party politics is reduced to the circus of undemocratic practices. This is a very painful reality, which must be urgently redressed. “The leadership of the CECPC has also ensured that meetings are hardly taking place. Stakeholders Prioritise Cancer Awareness, Sensitisation In Borno Court Fixes March 25 For Judgment On $418m Paris Club Refunds… The only meeting now taking place is the meeting of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF). So long as meetings are not taking place, ability of leaders and members of the party to hold the leadership of the CECPC accountable will be weak. Conscious of the fact that party leaders and members are weak in holding them accountable is about the only reason why these leaders have a strong self-belief that they can continue to succeed in manipulating situations in the party to their advantage, including undermining the national convention of the party. “Many party leaders and members are greatly at pain that, as a party, we are sinking deeper and deeper in more problems. A caretaker committee, which is expected to open a new democratically vibrant life for the party, facilitate internal party contests, is more and more becoming an Undertaker Committee working to end every democratic life existing in the party by blocking every internal party contest. “Everything in the party is being reduced to decisions of some party leaders. If the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC was highhanded, intimidating and trampling on the democratic life of party leaders and members, the CECPC led by His Excellency Mai Mala Buni is administering poison, thereby destroying every democratic practice in the party and preparing every stage for the burial rite of APC as a party. This may sound harsh, but it is the sad reality. “Your Excellency, just like you were able to rescue the party from the tightfisted grip of Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC, you will need to also take every urgent step to rescue the party from the reprehensible leadership of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC. “The fastest way that can happen is by ensuring that nothing is allowed to prevent the national convention from holding on February 26, 2022. In addition to ensuring that issues around zoning offices and setting up all the sub-committees for the convention are decided immediately and sales of forms to aspiring candidates also commenced immediately, it may be important to hold a consultative meeting with all critical stakeholders, especially members of the national caucus of the party.”