ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) has constituted 20 sub-committees to oversee the preparation and execution of the March 26 National Convention of the party scheduled for the Eagles Square in Abuja. Two of the committees, the Central Planning Committee made up of members of the CECPC members and the Secretariat Support Committee respectively has 12 and seven members, while the Accreditation Committee has 41 members. Other subcommittees have 40 members each. APC Wins Imo By-Election Private: Group Tells APC To Give Bayelsa, Others NWC Positions The Secretary of the CECPC, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe said the constitution of the sub-committees complied with the schedule of activities for the National Convention as resolved by the CECPC. The sub-committees constituted include the Screening Committee headed the chairmanship of Gov. Abdulrahaman Abdulrazaq with Barr. Emmanuel Chikwu Emeka as Secretary; Governor Hope Uzodinma takes charge of Screening Appeal Committee where and Barr. Shuaibu Aruwa SAN serves as Secretary. The Election Committee is headed by Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun while Governor Bello Masari will serve as Election Appeal Committee chairman. The Legal Committee is headed by the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN, the governor of Zamfara State heads Accommodation Committed while Venue/Decoration/Site Servicing Committee has Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State as chairman and Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State heads Transport/Logistics Committee Other committees are Media/Publicity with Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-olu as chairman, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State heads the Security/Protocol Committee while the Accreditation Committee has Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as chairman, Entertainment/Welfare Committee has Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase as chairman and the Medical Sub-committee is headed by Governor Ben Ayade of Cross Rivers State. POLL Gombe State governor, Inuwa Yahaya is yo chair Budget Committee, Finance Committee is to be steered by Governor Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State; Accreditation of Volunteers/Diplomats/Observers will be chaired by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama; Digital Committee has Kashifu Inuwa as chairman and Convention Legacy and Rapporteur Committee has Bornu State governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum as chairman.