Comptroller Festus Okun, Customs Area Controller of the Port Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML) Command, Tin Can Island, Lagos of the Nigeria Customs Service(NCS), in a recent chat with journalists in Lagos, speaks on the measures put in place in his command to block revenue leakages, increase revenue generation to the Federal Government, fight smuggling as well as improve on the compliance level of importers and their agents to the rules of trade facilitation. ANDREW UTULU was there for Daily Independent. Excerpts: There is this policy of ban of importation of rice through the land borders, yet some consignments of rice coming through the seaports are being seized by Customs operatives. Is it that they did comply with the procedures of importation? It is a policy by the Federal Government that we should encourage local production of rice. It was on that basis that importation of rice was prohibited. When they say through borders, it is both land and sea borders. For our purpose here, I want to state categorically that this is a border area. Decline In Piracy Incidents Product Of Collective Efforts –… NPA Moves To Revive Eastern Ports This is because goods from overseas come in through here. So, ours is a sea border and the prohibition covers everywhere. One of the major instruments is that people cannot access forex Going through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for the importation of rice. So, if you don’t go through CBN, how do you source your funds to import rice? So, I will say both land and seaports are not expected to allow importation of rice into the country. Next Year is the year of general election in Nigeria. Looking that the security challenges in the country, what measures have you put in place to ensure that arms and ammunition are not illegally imported into the country through your command? On what we are doing to ensure weapons do not come into the country through our port, the way we operate here, we are always at alert, our officers are thorough. The way we conduct our examinations, it is 100% physical examination. When people import vehicles in containers, we examine the containers and examine what are contained therein in the vehicles. Through that, we have been able to come across one or two things that are of interest, which have been adequately forwarded to the appropriate authorities. POLL Knowing that we are going into election next year, what we need to do is to introduce measures, make sure we conduct more intensive examinations to forestall such illicit importation, where we come across them. I assure you that we are equal to the task, we have been doing it and we will continue to do it. I don’t think we have any fear as a command whether we will be able to handle it. We will definitely handle it. We have officers, we have men on the ground that will do the job. Again, we have encouragement, we have the support of the Service, so we have no reason not to do it. At this our level, we are aware that we have no other country. No one even need to tell us that we should not allow this proliferation of arms in the country, we too are living in the country not outside, or in the moon. We don’t go about on armored vehicles, so we need to protect everybody to protect ourselves. We need to prevent such things from coming in because when they come, of course you don’t know who they will be used on. So, I can assure you that we are doing that, we will continue to do it, and we will do it effectively. We don’t have any doubt. We have confidence in ourselves. From the figure given as export last year, it shows the command did very well. What are the items that are regularly exported through your command? We Handled 199,487 Tons Worth N136bn Export Last Year – Compt.… MAN Oron Attributes Mass Failure Of COC Exams To Students’… The major ones are cocoa beans, gum Arabic, Casement seeds and some of our locally produced items for confectionery. There seems to be a decline in general cargo importation through your command last year, could this be attributed to people being discouraged due to the fact that the port is more of RoRo port, or coincidentally, their choice to go to other ports? I think the cause is that we have always been dependent on vehicles and to a very large extent we tell you that we depended on about 80 % to 90 % of vehicles’ importation. So, it is not majorly a terminal of general cargo. We should also be aware that 2020 had a spillover effect of COVID-19. Normally we don’t have bulk cargoes. So, on these general cargoes, we know how they are being imported. The shutdown of 2020 still impacted on what happened in 2021. So this, we believe must have contributed. You could also see that exchange rate policy with Naira to Dollar or two Pounds in exchange was moving up at every stage. So this definitely has its effect because these things are not inelastic. There is a limit to where it will get that people might not be taking as much as they were taking. The purchasing power will definitely decline because some of these items are not items that our lives depended so much on. Some of them are items that people could do away with and it is a matter of demand and supply. If the demand is going down, definitely the supply will go down too. These are some of the things we believe must have contributed. However, with the different measures the Federal Government have put in place, we believe that this year 2022, things will get better. When will the e-Customs project be implemented? This is a continuous process. This e-customs we are talking about is something we have started for a very long time, but we are looking at moving to a higher level. It is going to more sophisticated level. So, it is a continuous thing. It is not something you can just accomplish overnight. At this level, you cannot give a time line. From the management, I think it is something that will not take another two years before it comes to fruition, because every aspect and different aspect will be modernised. There are some you can see the impact immediately, but there are some that could be behind the scene, at the back end that might not even be visible to anybody, but when the result starts coming, the efficiency will show because when we talk about e-Customs, it encompasses all aspects, not about clearing alone. Even in our communication, which even during the end of the year, we used the e-customs to administer some of the things we were doing manually. So, it is a total package. It is a work in progress. There are complaints of variations in duty assessment for cars by agents and importers. What is your position on this sir? We all know that hardly can you find two cars that are of the same condition. So, what we have is the issue of range. So, if there are variations of N20,000:00 to N30,000:00, I think those ones can still be accommodated based on the conditions of these vehicles. Nobody will say I was in Tin Can Port and paid N5million for a vehicle and when I came to PTML, I paid N6million. Or that if I go to Apapa, I will pay N3million for a vehicle I will pay N5million at PTML. It is just a situation of little variations and I think the service is equally working towards having a perfect harmonization. So, we are talking about the VIN Valuation. It is already being developed. In fact it would have been implemented if not for certain technological deficiencies that we observed when it was put into practice. I believe that this year, this thing will come into effect. Part of the things the service is working towards is this harmonization, uniformity, and simplification of all these processes and procedure. I can assure you that this uneven —will soon go away, but for the meantime, it is not something that is so significant that you can say people are taking different thing in different places, no. These are human sentiments to seek favour. When you say bring the document you are referring to, nobody will come with it. Luckily, I have been in Tin Can and I am here now. I can say that there is no significant variation between these two commands or amongst other commands. Last year, virtually all the ports reported drugs seizures, but yours was exception, what measure did you put in place that scared such unscrupulous importers and how would you sustain it? This can be attributed to various factors. I will say without being immodest with the system placed on ground here, with checks and layers of checks that we have on ground, it will be too hot for people to bring such illicit drugs. They will not go. I can say it categorically that they will not go. After all, officers making these seizures and the sister agencies that are involved, we still have them on ground here. So, if they could be making such seizures in Tin Can, they are equally on ground here to support us in making such seizures. Like probably the hard drugs, narcotics or whatever, we have don’t even have ships coming from the far east to our port. So it is part of it because nobody will expect ships coming probably from Europe to Nigeria to bring such items. Of course if it has entered Europe of what need is bringing it to Nigeria to re-export it to Europe? That account to why we might not likely have that but we are not assuming that it cannot happen. So, we are at alert, we are prepared for it. The same trained officers they have in Tin Can are what we have here. The same orientation they have there is what we have here.