LAGOS  – Interswitch Group, one of the foremost pan-African digital payment and Commerce Company, is offering free tutorials to candidates that purchase JAMB ePINs for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) examination on the Quickteller platform as part of its commitment to promote quality education in Nigeria. The sale of the JAMB ePINs will commence on Saturday, February 19, 2022. Registration for the exam (UTME) will last for five weeks and end on Saturday, March 26, 2022. Candidates are advised to optimise this registration period. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Vbank Unveils Thompson Avenue Roundabout, Ikoyi The tutorials will commence a few weeks before the examination and is exclusive to candidates who procured their ePINs on Interswitch-enabled platforms, such as Quickteller Mobile App/Web, Quickteller Paypoint (Agents), and Interswitch Webpay on JAMB’s website. The tutorials will be available virtually to candidates across the country. Interswitch revealed that the tutorials will hold for seven weeks and cover 10 subjects namely: Mathematics, English, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Literature-in English, Government, Commerce, Economics and Accounting. On the other hand, Interswitch has also made a provision to incentivise Quickteller Paypoint agents who sell the JAMB ePIN on their platforms. The company announced that Quickteller Paypoint agents will receive huge commissions per ePIN transaction. According to Olawale Akanbi, Group Head of Growth Marketing, Merchants & Ecosystem, “The importance of tutoring and coaching cannot be underestimated as prospective students prepare for the 2022 UTME exams. At Interswitch, we strongly believe in the power of learning and coaching. Also, we believe that when a child is provided with the necessary skills and knowledge, excellence remains the ultimate result. “This is why Interswitch is providing students the unique opportunity of being coached by seasoned teachers who have continued to distinguish themselves as they prepare for the 2022 UTME exams. Also, as an enterprise committed to the growth of Small and Medium Scale Entreprises (SMEs), Quickteller Paypoint Agents also will receive as much as N14O per ePIN transaction, including other fantastic commissions on every transaction engaged on the Quickteller platform. POLL As an organisation committed to the growth and development of the Nigerian youth, Interswitch remains committed to providing opportunities for the realisation of their dreams and aspirations.” The Quickteller platform simplifies the JAMB registration process, making its less cumbersome for many candidates nationwide. Therefore, candidates seeking to register for the 2022 JAMB/UTME examinations can easily obtain their ePINs and forms from Interswitch-enabled platforms such as Quickteller Mobile App/Web, Quickteller Paypoint (Agents), payment with Interswitch Webpay on JAMB’s website and through Interswitch Paydirect at any bank branch nationwide. For a seamless registration process, prospective candidates, including those registering from foreign countries should follow these easy steps: Obtain the National Identification Number (NIN). This is mandatory. Corruption Charges: Nto Floors ICPC In Court, Demands Apology Police Not To Blame For Fatal Accident In Ihiala –Anambra CP SMS ‘NIN’, space, and the