One of the leading Investment bank and foremost Pan-African financial services group, United Capital Plc has announced its audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2021. In the results, the company posted a gross earnings of N18.07 billion which was an improvement of 40 per cent from what was reported last year as operating profit before tax grew 53 per cent year-on-year to N12.12 billion. Total assets grew 104 per cent year-on-year to N453.60 billion while shareholders’ funds rose 25 per cent year-on-year to N30.55 billion from N24.43 billion. Tear Up The 2022 Budget; Start Praying Stock Exchange As Veritable Funding Option For Businesses Based on this performance, the company has proposed a 114 per cent increase in dividend to N1.50 for every ordinary share of 50 kobo each. Professor Chika Mordi, Chairman of the board, while speaking on the audited financial results, said: “We are proposing N1.50 dividend for every 50 kobo ordinary share, up 114 per cent from the 70 kobo dividend paid last year. This affirms our commitment to wealth creation for our shareholders”. Mr. Peter Ashade, the Group Chief Executive Officer, while commenting on the Group’s performance, said, “Our strong performance was driven by exponential growth in business activities across all the market segments that we serve as we successfully navigated a volatile operating environment to create best-in-class solutions for our clients. “United Capital is on a progressive path as witnessed in our strong earnings growth and superior value delivery to shareholders over the years, amongst other metrics that are reflective of high performing organisations. “All stakeholders can be assured of our commitment to sustain our organizational growth trajectory well into the foreseeable future as we navigate the tough operating terrain. POLL “We will continue to pursue developmental activities and actively engage regulatory authorities, investors, and relevant stakeholder groups towards deepening thLe capital market, strengthening the broader financial system, and driving financial inclusion as a means of accelerating the economic development of our country and empowering its citizens.” United Capital Plc remains a leader in the financial and investment services space, with a mission to provide bespoke and innovative value-added services to its clients. The group aims to transform the African continent by providing innovative and creative investment banking solutions to governments, companies, and individuals.