BAUCHI – The 11 man fact finding committee set up by Mr. Iliya Habila, the Chairman of Bogoro local government, to investigate the violence that marred the late Baba Peter Gonto anniversary has disclosed that no fewer than three persons were killed while several houses, including cars, were destroyed during the violence. This was contained in the report of the committee which was later submitted to the Chairman of Bogoro local government on Monday. According to the chairman of the committee Mr. Simon Dudo Michael K, the committee did a thorough job and identified people affected by the violence and extent of damages done to the lives and properties on 30 and 31 December 2021 during the late Baba Peter Gonto anniversary, adding that the committee recommended for the immediate assistance of victims affected by the violence that will be given to cushion their effects. Receiving the report, Bogoro Council Chairman, Iliya Habila commended the committee for an excellent job. “In the morning of the grand finale of the anniversary, law-abiding citizens from the villages of both Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro LGAs, the state and across other states were trooping into the venue for the event”. “Some personalities had gone to the venue of the historic event and the event had started when reports reached us that some persons, including women and children, had gathered themselves in Tafawa Balewa and were marching to Bogoro to come and disrupt the event”. “The hoodlums blocked roads from Tafawa Balewa, Gobbiya, Mallar-Lusa and other entry points to Bogoro, smashed cars, beat those who were going for the events and created chaos and anarchy in the Local Government. Important guests and personalities from across the country were molested, their cars smashed and were forced to go back” he said “The hoodlums still advanced through Bar to Bogoro with the intention of disrupting the event. The event was, therefore, hurriedly ended after the Convener, Prof. Suleiman Elias Bogoro presented his speech urging all to embrace peace and announced the establishment of the Baba Peter Gonto Foundation”. POLL “Still determined to cause disharmony, some of the hoodlums who had taken the Bar-Mwari road went to the venue of the event, set the whole place ablaze,” Iliya Habila said