ABUJA – A Civil Society Group, Concerned Nigerians has slammed the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva and Group Managing Director Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), Mele Kolo Kyari for allowing the Independent marketers to create artificial scarcity of petroleum products in the country. The group noted that act of hoarding petroleum products is capable of plunging  the country into widespread economic chaos. The group stated this in a letter dated February 7, 2022 addressed to the Minister of Petroleum and Group Managing Director NNPC signed by the National Coordinator, Deji Adeyanju on Monday in Abuja. Adulterated Petrol In Circulation Already Recalled, FG Assures ‘Expect Heated Debate, Fireworks, High Emotions On PIA At… The statement wondered why regulatory bodies have not been living to its expectation and not deemed it fit to prevail on independent marketers by calling them to order. Adeyanju lamented long queues across filing stations in the nation’s capital adding that the marketers always shutdown their gates by 6:00pm. The group therefore called  on regulatory bodies and Nigerian government to swing into action and address the scarcity before it get out of hand. The statement read ”  As you may already know, in recent months independent marketers of petroleum products have engaged in speculative acts of hoarding petroleum products, particularly PMS, in a bid to criminally increase the prices, cause artificial scarcity and plunge the country into widespread economic chaos. “For example, filing stations across the nation’s capital are littered with long queues of vehicles seeking to purchase fuel, while the independent marketers ensures that their filing stations are shut for the day by 6pm. POLL “What is, however, deeply worrisome is that the regulators have not deemed it necessary to call these independent marketers to order but continue to allow them take advantage of Nigerians. At a time when Nigerians are going through excruciating pain, an artificial fuel scarcity is the last thing they should worry about. “It is equally important to point out that causing artificial scarcity resulting in economic sabotage is a criminal offence under our laws. The Federal government must, therefore, put a halt to the ball watching and take urgent steps to address the economic sabotage, especially as there is no reason for artificial scarcity at this time. “Sequel to the foregoing, we call on the Federal government to arrest the offending marketers, shut their filling stations and bring this ongoing economic sabotage to an end. Nigerians deserve to buy fuel at an accessible rate anytime.”