ENUGU  – The battle of wits over who becomes the next occupant of the Enugu State Government House, replacing the incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, next year continues to gather momentum, amid political intrigues, as some stakeholders in the equation warn against scuttling a zoning arrangement they say has existed in the state since 1999. There are however those who insist there was never a zoning deal, describing the proponents of such as “selfish persons seeking relevance.” Those who, however, insist that zoning of the premier office cannot be jettisoned to avoid a situation where a particular zone dominates the political sphere perpetually at the expense of others in the name of electing the best-suited candidate, recall that the gentleman’s agreement began in 1999 when the incumbent Senator representing the Enugu East zone, Chimaroke Nnamani, became governor (1999- 2007). At that time, they admit, he did not emerge through zoning but the will of the people, handing over office to the then Governor Sulivan Chime from Enugu West, who was succeeded by the incumbent, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from the Northern zone. Barely one year to the general elections, those who want zoning jettisoned argue that since every zone has tasted the office, it is time to allow the best man emerge, beginning the experiment from anywhere this time around. Those who want the rotation to begin again from where it started 23 years ago – Enugu East – will hear none of that. Five Aspirants South-East Presidency: A Look At Orjiakor, Ekeh, Onyeama APC Leaders Set Party On Edge With Convention Shift At the last count, there are over five aspirants from across the zones angling to succeed Ugwuanyi in 2023, some of who have indicated interest, while others may still be consulting or watching out for where the power pendulum would swing. Among those believed to be eyeing the top job are former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekewremadu, currently representing Enugu West in the red chamber; incumbent Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Edward Uchenna Ubosi, from Enugu East; Frank Nweke (Junior), former Chief of Staff to Governor Chimaroke Nnamani, and later Minister of Information, also from Enugu East, as well as Chief Chinyeaka Ohaa. Sunday Independent learnt that Senator Ekweremadu, who is yet to publicly declare his interest for the job, is said to be under pressure from political leaders, groups, youth and women across the state to join the race on the argument that he remains the best candidate to occupy the Government House next year. Those who think so point to his wealth of experience and leadership qualities, which he displayed in all of the years at the senate and, especially when he was number two man at the Nigerian senate. It is those flying the Ekwerenmadu kite that seems bent on discarding the zoning arrangement. On his part, Ohaa, a grassroots, youth development and empowerment advocate, came to the limelight in 1999 when he was appointed by then Governor Nnamani as Accountant General of the state, and only recently retired from the civil service. He is yet to declare his intention, but sources say he might vie for the top job, and is yet consulting his supporters. The former Information Minister, another product of the Ebeano political dynasty which has so far produced two governors after Nnamani, may well enjoy political Favour to occupy the Lion Building next year. He too is yet to declare his interest, amid a strong rumour that he may have been “anointed” by the powers that be to replace the incumbent. Those who think so easily point to Nweke’s close relationship to prominent power brokers in the state. POLL Another aspirant that is yet to declare his interest, but who analysts say could be interested, given his body language, is Ubosi, who has been at the state assembly since 2015 under the present administration of Governor Ugwuanyi. The challenge he will likely face is coming from a town called Isi Uzo, which though is in Enugu East, is hardly seen as such because its closeness to Nsukka, the university town. Aware of this impediment to his aspiration, the Speaker is reported as saying at a political rally that any zone wanting to stop his Nkanu people from producing the governor next year will be butchered, lamenting the way some persons continue referring to his people as mere butchers. According to him, “it’s our turn to become Governor in 2023, and anybody, or zone that tries to stop us will be butchered.” He boasted that Nkanu land had produced prominent politicians, including the former Governor of old Anambra, Senator Jim Nwobodo; former Governor of Enugu State, Chimaroke Nnamani; former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; as well as Nweke, the former Information Minister, among others. A PDP Thing Chukwunonso Daniel Ogbe, Chairman of the African People’s Alliance (APA) is one of those who insist the zoning arrangement is borne out of selfish interest. For him, “what we need in Enugu state is not zoning but a visionary leader that’s is capable of alleviating the suffering of the people. “As we all know, zoning is being respected only in PDP, because other political parties are not part of it. We have capable leaders in every zone. So, why the clamour for a particular zone to occupy the Government House again? People talking about zoning are selfish leaders coming to embezzle our commonwealth. Why talk about zoning when people are hungry. Nigerians can’t listen to this zoning because they are living in abject poverty Tinubu Has Resources To Win 2023 Presidency – Ogunlewe Igbo Group Condemns Okechukwu’s Attack On Bauchi Governor,… “I want to enjoin all political parties to kick against zoning and let’s support a visionary leader. PDP succeeded in the zoning arrangement in the past because we had no viable opposition. But, as it stands now, we are ready to chase PDP away come 2023,” he stressed. As if to answer those who deny the existence of an agreement, Godwin Ogenyi, a one-time Commissioner for Human Capital Development and Poverty Reduction in the state, recalls that in the history of the PDP there was a deal relating to rotation of the governorship seat among all three senatorial zones. The peace and unity we enjoy in Enugu state today, he continued, resulted from “the zoning arrangement which we are all happy and Comfortable with. “I don’t think it’s right to disrupt the peace we are enjoying in Enugu state because, we have had peace in Enugu like no other state is the pattern of zoning has been respected by everybody. “This gentleman arrangement started with Enugu East Senatorial Zone, When Chimaroke Nnamani, became governor in 1999, served for eight years; and handed over to Sulivan Chime who hailed from Enugu West and after 8 years, Chime handed over to Ugwuanyi. And so, Ugwuanyi will have to rotate the slot back to Enugu East where it started,” he said. Choosing A Successor Meanwhile, Senator Nnamani, says outgoing governors have the power to choose who succeeds them, and that Governor Ugwuanyi’s case should not be different ahead of the 2023 election. Nnamani describes the governor as the leader who directs the affairs of a political party, and should therefore have a say in who succeeds him without compromising the electoral processes. The ex-governor said the incumbent governor has earned his respect for managing his Ebeano political family, which was birthed in 1999 under his administration. “I have absolute loyalty and respect for my governor who is also the leader of the Ebeano political family. He has demonstrated capacity and leadership. We are waiting for him to lead the way to go in 2023 and we shall follow,” he stressed. Elite Conspiracy But a pressure group known as Enugu Rescue group faults Nnamani’s support of Ugwuanyi on the zoning arrangement, insisting that there was never a time the people of Enugu State zoned their governorship to any area. The group reminded those preparing to support a purported zoning document to remember that forgery remains a serious offence under Nigerian laws, as such document never existed in the state. The group also described the purported agreement as fictitious and elite conspiracy to grab power to deny the people of Enugu State quality governance. According to its National Coordinator, Hon. Ejike Iloh, “we make bold to say that by verifiable records on the contests for the governorship of Enugu State since 1998/1999, there is nothing like zoning principle in the state. Power has gone round the three geopolitical zones, but not based on any predefined zoning principle, as Nnamani seeks to sell to unsuspecting Nigerians. “Where was the purported zoning principle when himself from Enugu East was sponsored by Senator Jim Nwobodo to snatch the gubernatorial ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from Chief Nduka Agu from Enugu West, who was sponsored by another former governor, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo in an epic battle in 1998? “Where was zoning when Nnamani contested against Chief Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagu of the All Peoples Party (APP), who hails from Enugu West, in the main election in 1999? “Where was zoning during the highly volatile 2003 governorship election that became a straight fight between Nnamani from Enugu East and Ambassador Fidel Ayogu of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), who hails from Enugu North? The group said since the governorship had gone round the three senatorial zones, it was more interested in the emergence of the best hands for the job in 2023, not minding who he, or she is, or where the candidate comes from. With so much uncertainty across the political space in Enugu State, it is clear that a lot of factors will come into play as determinants of who replaces Governor Ugwuanyi, but what is not in doubt is that there will be a lot of horse-trading and compromises in the days ahead, just as the incumbent remains a factor.