IBADAN – There is need for a robust synergies between the government ministries, agencies including stakeholders for effective implementation of Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) law in Oyo State. It has been gathered that when stakeholders synergise, survivors will get the needed support, perpetrators will get sanction and the likelihood of spike in reported cases of Gender Based Violence (GBV) will be minimal in the state. Oyo State Technical Partner on VAPP laws, Westminster Foundation For Democracy gave the advise on the sideline of a capacity strengthening workshop for stakeholders on the effective implementation of the law on Tuesday. Sylvester Oromoni Was Not In Critical Condition When I Saw Him… Group Berates EFCC Over Non-Appearance Of FCC Chairman, Dankaka The stakeholders in attendance at the workshop include members of the Oyo state Rapid Response Team domicile at the Ministry of Ministry of Women Affairs; the Sexual and Gender Based Violence monitoring team domiciled at the Ministry of Justice, Civil Society Groups, political office holders among others. Recall that a similar synergy meeting held on Monday for officials of state Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Inclusion who works around the implementation and enforcement of the law. The capacity strengthening workshop that was held at Bon Hotel, Ibadan was sponsored by Westminster Foundation for Democracy (WFD) with funding by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, UK. In his welcome remarks, the Country Representative in Nigeria, WFD, Mr Adebowale Olorunmola while harping on the importance of teamwork to achieve an effective implementation of the Oyo State VAPP Law, expressed confidence that all the stakeholders would team up going by the depth of commitment, dedication shown during the processes that gave birth to the law. Olorunmola said “We are very positive that they (stakeholders) are going to work together given the fact that we work with all stakeholders to support the process of the review and passage of the VAPP law. POLL “Every hand was on deck and I think we need to give kudos to everybody, if they didn’t work together in the first place, this would not have been possible and I think this activity is aimed to enable them to build on that, so that they will be able to work more and better together to move the process forward. “If we do not have synergy between these two very important ministries, among other stakeholders, then we run the risk of duplicating efforts, activities energies and even budgets in the process of implementing the VAPP law and even taking care of survivors of Gender Based Violence.” “At the end of the day, we would have seen that our efforts would not have yielded as much dividends as we would have love to see. So, I think, the implication is that the process is not going to move forward as quickly as possible.” “As you will recollect, immediately after the Covid-19 lockdown, we had a lot of demands from Oyo state people for the leadership to do something urgent to address the incessant attack of rape and attack on women that led sometimes to death and we don’t want to go back to those period and that is why the ministries and stakeholders must work together.” In their separate goodwill messages, representatives of the Commissioner of Justice/Attorney General and that of the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Inclusion commended the stakeholders for the efforts and commitment at ensuring that the survivor receive needed attention while also ensuring that perpetrators are sanctioned accordingly. Robbers Kill UBTH Optometrist Doctor In Benin Just In: Assailants Kill Housewife, Pound Her Toddlers In Kano In her goodwill message, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Seyi Makinde on Diaspora, Bolanle commended the stakehokders for seeing through the processes in the interest of the residents who had suffered abuse in anyway. She challenged the stakeholders to do more in the areas of publicity and awareness as a way ensuring that the law is put to use. Sarumi-Aliu said “There is the urgent need to carry out rigorous sensitization programmes in the state to educate both adults and minors on what the law is about and the fines and sentences involved.” Noting that more women like Honorable Olawunmi Oladeji are needed in government, the Sarumi-Aliu enjoined the stakehokders to come up with more laws and areas that need to be strengthen in the interest of the masses assuring that the Governor Seyi Makinde led administration is committed to the safety and protection of all residents of the state.