…Describes APC As Contraception, Amalgamation Dooms To Fall Apart ….If We Lose Power Nigeria May Likely Come To An End – Lamido ABUJA – The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorcha Ayu, on Tuesday tasked the past governors of the party to immediately reach out to other of their colleagues who left PDP in anger. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Convention: APC Governors Meet, Zone NWC Seats Noting that their colleagues who left the party are not happy where they are, Ayu further tasked them to bring them back to PDP. Speaking at a meeting of National Working Committee (NWC) with past Governors and some zonal leaders of the party in Abuja, Ayudescribed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and others, as contraptions and amalgamations of different tendencies, which inevitably will fall apart. He said: “The first task I will give you (the former Governors) immediately is to reach out to other of your colleagues who have benefited from this party, enormously and abandoned the party. “Where they are, we know, they’re not happy. Some of them are grumbling in silence. Kindly reach out to them and bring them back home. “We still regard them as our prodigal children. When they come, we’ll receive them, and they will continue to help to build the party and you who had interacted with them in the governors’ forum and other fora are the best people who can reach out to your colleagues to bring them back home. POLL “Because as you can see, clearly, there is only one organic political party in Nigeria and that is the Peoples Democratic Party.” The PDP National Chairman added that “the other ones are contraptions and are basically amalgamations or different tendencies, which inevitably will fall apart. “The only party that will not fall apart, no matter who leaves this party is the Peoples Democratic Party, because it’s genuinely founded on the people and nobody owns it. “We all own it. We belong to it. We’ll continue to build it until we get back to power.” Speaking earlier, former Governor of Jigawa State and leader of delegation of former Governors, Alhaji Sule Lamido, warned on the dire consequences of PDP losing the 2023 election. Anambra Chief Whip Resigns Bala Mohammed Hails Diri For Continuity In Bayelsa’s… According to him, “if we lose power, Nigeria may likely come to an end.” Advising the party on the need for proper organization, Lamido added that PDP should strive hard towards winning the 2023 saying, “If we don’t get things right in 2023, Nigeria will be in problem.” He said: “Since your (Ayu’s) election, there have been expectations by Nigerians as to which way forward, the only party with the capacity, networking and commitment in the Nigerian politics is PDP. “In 2023, PDP is being looked upon as to which way Nigeria. If we don’t get things right in 2023 Nigeria will be in problem. “A developed party is the only way in which government is formed, a party that is not properly organised, directed cannot form a good government. That is why you see the APC, the party is not organized. “A good party platform, organised, committed to Nigeria will produce a very good government. “A party, which is in disarray, unorganized will spell doom for Nigeria like we are going through with the APC. “We felt what do we do as members from where there are no PDP Governors? How do we support you and the party to get the party properly positioned, an organic party loved by each house in Nigeria? “We are here to formally show solidarity with your leadership and give the message to Nigerians that PDP is a single family under your leadership and that PDP is the only hope for Nigeria in 2023. We are here to support you and the party. “Also, to minimize acrimonious discussion in terms of power allocation, we need the party first before the power. If the party is not properly organized, power will elude us. In 2023, if we lose power, Nigeria may likely come to an end.”