LAGOS  – Members of the Ikeja Golden Lions Club have again been commended for their unrelenting efforts of touching the lives of the needy and underprivileged in society. The applause came last Tuesday at the club’s house in Opebi, Lagos, where they gathered with other mem­bers of the society, from different walks of life to celebrate this year’s Valen­tine’s Day. Ahead of Valentine’s Day, earlier in February, the club had organised a programme that fed over 150 poor people. The feeding event served the poor peo­ple, catered for the blind, and also included adminis­tration of different tests on diabetic and hypertensive patients. Orientation: Call-Up-Letters Out On Sunday, COVID-19 Rapid… Drug Peddlers Beat Man Who Allegedly Invite NDLEA To Bunk It was in the light of these good gestures that Lion Are Lekan Owolabi, first Vice District Governor, District 404B2 Nigeria of Lions Clubs International, who came to felicitate the club, applauded all the members of the club and urged them to keep the legacy of serving the humanity. “The event is very unique in the sense that it is an opportunity for the lion members of this great club to come together, share joy and affection, and to also rededicate themselves further for the cause of serving humanity,” Owola­bi said. He further stated that “We want to encourage them to make it a yearly af­fair whereby people from the great club can come to­gether with their friends, associates, family, business colleagues and neighbours to share the joy together. “It should also serve as an avenue to invite mem­bers to come and join their club and by and large be a member of Lions Club In­ternational, whereby they too can make themselves available in the call to fur­ther the cause of servicing humanity. “I want to congratulate them for organising this year’s edition and I pray that the club will sustain the legacy of sharing joy and make it a yearly affair in due course.” POLL Lion Kemi Badmus, the Chairperson of Valentine’s Day Activity 2022, said the event is a yearly occasion in Lions clubs for all the Lions.