Plateau United’s head coach Fidelis Ilechuk­wu is looking to build on their fantastic re­sult away to Rangers in Wednesday’s MatchDay 10 fixture of the Nige­ria Professional Football League (NPFL). Ilechukwu, nicknamed ‘The Working One’ during his tour of duty at mod­est Lagos side, MFM, told www.npfl.ng that his side is yet to hit top form despite winning four out of it’s five matches and believes there is room for improvement. “That day (Wednesday), my boys put in a great shift, playing simple and followed all our tactical instructions to the latter. 3SC Promise To Build On Heartland Massacre This Weekend We’re Going To Jos For The Points, Boasts Rivers Utd Manager “It’s great to get our first away win of the season but it’s more significant coming against a great side like Rangers. Indeed that day was a memorable win for us and we will try and build on it”, enthused Ilechukwu who joined Pla­teau from Heartland. On the club’s level of competitiveness since his arrival, the Coach said “we are not yet a finished product, there is room for improvement and we will take it a game at a time”. Plateau United defeated Enugu Rangers thanks to an early goal from Buhari Ibrahim but it was the per­formance of the playmak­er, Sunday Anthony that drew applause. The young player controlled the midfield throughout the match and his coach [Ilechukwu] had nothing but kind words for him. POLL Ilechukwu said Sunday has the potential to go on and become a leading mid­fielder in Nigeria. “Today, Sunny was in­fluential and not only to­day but throughout our matches this season. He is a midfielder to watch out for. He is young and willing to learn and improve his game. If he keeps his head down, I am sure he will be a big name in Nigerian foot­ball” said the former MFM coach. Plateau United follow­ing the 1-0 win at Rangers are now 3rd on the log but head coach Ilechukwu says it’s too early to talk about winning the title. He insists that his team will take it one match at a time. “It’s too early to consid­er us as title contenders. Right now we take it, one match at a time. Like I said, we are not a finished prod­uct yet. Our aim now is to get consistency in perfor­mance before we can start looking at the table.”