***Says Arik Air Debt Affecting Its Performance LAGOS – The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has proposed a revenue generation of N188 billion in the 2022 operating year, indicating 50.4 per cent increase when compared to the previous year. This is as the agency lamented that outstanding debts by its clients especially Arik Air was affecting its performance and called on the National Assembly to intervene in order to save the agency from collapse. Airlines Raise Alarm As Aviation Fuel Rises To N400 Per Litre DG NCAA Allays Fear Over 5G Interference With Flights FAAN also threatened to go tough on other clients like concessionaires, private terminal operators and advertisements companies who reneged on their earlier agreements, saying that it would not hesitate to terminate their contracts with the agency. Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, the Managing Director, FAAN stated these over the weekend when the joint National Assembly Committee on Aviation visited the agency and other government parastatals for oversight functions. According to Yadudu, FAAN was prepared to increase its revenue generation to N188 billion in 2022 as against the N125.4 billion approved for the year 2021, which indicates an increase of 50.4 per cent. He said that the projection was arrived at with the hope that the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic would have been over, thereby leading to an increase in passenger traffic, as well as boost in the non-aeronautical revenue base of the authority as already highlighted in the 2021 budget performance. On outstanding debts, Yadudu specifically mentioned Arik Air as a major culprit, maintaining that since the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) took over the running of the airline in February 2017, it had not paid the inherited debt. POLL He said: “The authority is still faced with some challenges on debt recovery, most especially on debts owed by Arik Air, which constitutes a significant portion of the authority’s debt portfolio. “We commend the effort of the Committees on Aviation with respect to intervention so far in the recovery of Arik debts inherited by AMCON. However, we need further assistance to bring the issue to a logical conclusion as the huge debts are still outstanding.” Besides, the FAAN boss said that as at December 2021, the agency had contributed N16.7 billion to the Federal Account as its contribution to the Consolidated Revenue Funds in spite of the effect of the pandemic during the period, but clarified that FAAN did not have operating surplus. He regretted that this impacted negatively on its ability to adequately meet up with the agency’s obligations. He, therefore, canvassed for the suspension of its contribution to the Federal Account, stressing that this was in compliance with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) Doc 9562 on Airport Generation. NCAA Grants Premium Airline, Xejet AOC IATA, A4A, Others Pressurise U.S. Govt To Remove Pre-Departure… According to him, the ICAO Doc 9562 stated that revenue generated by airports should be transparently re-invested wholly in operating and developing its facilities, adding that the Lagos and Abuja airports mainly sustain other aerodromes in the country. He added: “Human Capacity development, the work force especially security, fire officers and others require continuous certification trainings, which are the global standard requirement for aviation fire and safety personnel. This comes at a huge cost to the authority. “Economic challenges – both national and international economic challenges occasioned by the COVID-19 Pandemic, affected airline operators, which made them to reduce fleets, frequencies or totally withdrew operations thereby affecting revenue generations. Also, several concessionaires are indebted to the authority; this includes airlines as well as other service providers. Also, Yadudu explained that FAAN was taking steps to terminate the non-performing concession agreements and engage new ones. He hoped that the management would have made a significant progress before the end of second quarter of 2022 on this. He, however, commended the committees for their efforts at repealing the existing Aviation Agencies Acts, and enacting new ones. He highlighted some of the achievements of FAAN in recent time to include; design, building and maintenance of interior spaces and assets at MMA, Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt terminals, construction of airline office block at Port Harcourt and rehabilitation of fire and rescue building at Port Harcourt. Others are construction of aviation medical clinic at Enugu international airport, replacement of terminal building ceiling at Enugu international airport, construction and furnishing of lounge at new international terminal, Abuja Airport, renovation of Aviation medical clinic at MMA, Lagos, provision of Covid-19 canopies and other support structures across all the nation’s airports. In his response, Sen. Smart Adeyemi, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Aviation, lauded FAAN for its performance despite the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic. He challenged FAAN to increase its activities in the area of airport security using technology and motivation of its human resources. Mr. Nnolim Nnaji, the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Aviation, advised that the new international terminal in Lagos be open as soon as possible, since it is the most patronised gateway in the nation. Stating that the committee was also interested in the welfare and well-being of workers, he noted that aviation was key to the socio-economic development of Nigeria.