DAMATURU – Commissioner of Police Haruna G, Garba has assured Yobe citizens of improved protection of lives and properties. He revealed this today at the Yobe Police Command headquarters, Damaturu during interaction with Newsmen in his office.According to him “I have been deployed to the State to work and to serve the good people of Yobe State and I wish to assure you that I will do my very best to provide a secured and safe environment for people to fulfill their aspirations and to carry out their lawful businesses unhindered”. The Police Commissioner also said that In carrying out this task, the Police is not alone in it, “I will partner with other sister security agencies, the Judiciary and other stakeholders to take out criminal elements. In tackling crime and criminality, the Command under my watch will employ three (3) pronged approach”. On Community policing, he sought the cooperation of all “job of policing a state as you are aware require public partnership and collaboration. Members of the community can no longer remain and watch criminal elements take over their Communities. There is this adage “See something, say something, if you see a crime being committed or about to be committed you have a civic responsibility to report to the nearest Police formation for appropriate action”. Police Assure Yobe Citizens of Peaceful Sallah Celebration “But if you refused to report and you allow the society to be infested with crime somehow, someday, you may fall victim to what you saw and do nothing about it”. “Therefore law-abiding members of the community will be fully involved and incorporated into the security architectures of their respective communities. In this regards the Area Commanders and DPOS have been directed to involve law-abiding members of the community in their areas of responsibilities in providing solutions on issues of crime and criminality”. “In providing quality security service, the Command is not unmindful of the rights of the citizens. The fundamental human rights of the citizens as enshrined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria will be respected at all times”. “Finally, while reiterating the commitment of Yobe State Police Command to provide safety and security to the good people of Yobe State, I wish to appeal to the general public to volunteer credible and actionable information to the Police so that we can serve you better”