Tuberculosis (TB) is a contagious infection of the lung tissues and can quickly spread to other body parts, like the brain, bones, and spines. Globally, Nigeria remains one of the 30 countries with the highest burden of Tuberculosis, while it also ranks first in Africa in the number of undetected cases. Nearly 600,000 new cases are detected yearly, and more than 245,000 Nigerians die annually from this dreaded disease or its complications. Causes of Tuberculosis Mycobacterium tuberculosis causes Tuberculosis disease. These TB germs can spread from an infected person through Sneezing, Coughing, Speaking, and Singing, especially in an enclosed place. Depending on the environment, these germs can stay in the infected air, as droplets, for several hours. Once these infected droplets are inhaled, this new person becomes a new host for the tuberculosis bacteria. Employers Urged To Develop Relevant Policies  To Prevent … How MTN’s Y’ello Doctor Initiative Partners Government To… This may result in lung infection, called primary TB. Meanwhile, most people recover from primary TB infection without further evidence of the disease. Or the infection may stay inactive (dormant) for years, called latent TB, which is not contagious but can become active again (reactivates). It is possible that people with well-functioning immune systems may not experience TB symptoms, even if they’ve contracted the bacteria. On the other hand, people with a weakened immune system can quickly become sick and contagious. Risk Factors: People at higher risk of active TB or reactivation of TB may include: · Older adults and infants due to the poor or immature immune system. · People living with weakened immune systems, for example, due to chemotherapy, HIV/AIDS, diabetes, or medicines that weaken the immune system POLL · People living around people who have TB · People who live in crowded or unclean living conditions. ·People who live in or have traveled to an area where TB is common. ·People who work or live in a hospital or other medical facilities. ·Health care workers for patients at high risk of TB. FG Says COVID-19 Vaccine Is Important Tool To Contain Pandemic COVID-19: Proportion Of Fully Vaccinated Nigerians Still Very… ·Smokers · People with poor nutrition · People with drug-resistant strains of TB Signs and Symptoms Latent TB is asymptomatic. Signs of active TB disease include: Cough that lasts more than three weeks Coughing up mucus with blood Wheezing and breathing difficulty Chest pain Fatigue Excessive sweating, particularly at night Chills Fever Loss of appetite Weight loss Exams, Laboratory Tests, and Diagnosis The health care provider will perform a physical examination that may show: · Unusual breath sounds (crackles) · Tender or swollen lymph nodes in the neck areas · With advanced disease, clubbing of the fingers or toes · Fluid around a lung (pleural effusion) Other tests that may be ordered include: · Bronchoscopy (a test that uses a scope or camera to view the airways) · Other imaging, including a Chest CT scan and a Chest x-ray that may show white spots in the lungs, which is the manifestation of where the immune system has walled off TB bacteria, or it might reveal changes in the lungs caused by active Tuberculosis. · Interferon-gamma release blood tests, such as the QFT-Gold test, for TB infection. This test measures the response when TB proteins are mixed with a small amount of blood. Blood tests can also confirm or rule out latent or active Tuberculosis. This test measures the immune system’s reaction to TB bacteria. · Sputum examination and cultures can also be used to test for drug-resistant strains of TB. · Thoracentesis is a procedure to remove fluid from the pleural space, which is the space between the lining of the outside of the lungs and the chest wall. · Mantoux Tuberculin skin test (also called a PPD test) is performed by injecting a small amount of fluid into the lower arm’s skin. After 2 or 3 days, it will be observed for swelling in the arm. · Biopsy of the affected tissue (done rarely) Treatment Treatment of active TB aims to cure the infection with a combination of many medicines (usually four medicines). The exact medicine and length of treatment depend on the age, overall health, possible drug resistance, and where the infection is in the body. This individual must take the pills as prescribed by the provider because the TB infection can become much more difficult to treat when people do not take their TB drugs like they are supposed to. The TB bacteria can become resistant to treatment which means the medicines may no longer work. An infected individual may be admitted to a hospital for 2 to 4 weeks to avoid spreading the disease to others until no longer contagious. Prognosis The outlook is excellent if pulmonary TB is diagnosed early, and effective treatment is started quickly. The symptoms often improve in 2 to 3 weeks after commencement of treatment. The chest x-ray will not show this improvement until weeks or months later. Meanwhile, if someone living with TB has other diseases, treating active TB may be more difficult. For example, HIV and diabetes affect the immune system and weaken the body’s ability to fight off TB and other infections. Possible Complications TB can spread to other body parts or cause permanent lung damage if not treated early. The medicines used to treat TB may cause side effects, including: · Changes in vision · Rash · Orange- or brown-colored tears and urine · Liver inflammation Prevention TB is preventable, even in those exposed to an infected person. People exposed to TB should have a skin test as soon as possible and have a follow-up test later if the first test is negative. A positive skin test means the person has come into contact with the TB bacteria. This does not mean that the person has active TB or is contagious. Meanwhile, prompt treatment is very important in preventing the spread of TB. Some countries with a high incidence of TB, including Nigeria, give people a vaccine called BCG to prevent TB. People who have had BCG may continue to test positive to the skin test. There are scenarios for negative tests as well. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Parkland Hospital, Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com