LAGOS  – The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has moved to partner with the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) in its war against the menace of fake and substan­dard products in the country. As a sequel to this, the Di­rector-General of SON, Malam Farouk Salim, has again, at a sensitisation programme in Lagos, warned that it would no longer be business as usu­al for purveyors of fake and sub-standard products in the country. The sensitisation pro­gramme with the theme, The Use Of Crime Record Informa­tion Management System As A Tool To Fight The Influx Of Fake/Sub-standard Products And Other Related Crimes In Nigeria, Salim, represented by Dr. Omolara Okunola, Director, Inspectorate and Compliance, SON, said the partnership would greatly checkmate high incidence of financially-relat­ed crimes, especially influx of counterfeit products into the country. Jealous Lover Kills Girlfriend For Flirting With Customer In… Lassa Fever Kills 40 Persons In 30 Days – NCDC He lauded the efforts of the NFIU to support the standards body towards the effective dis­charge of the agency’s statuto­ry mandate. The director-general stated that the agency would get its staff properly trained on spe­cial applications to fight crime and get rid of counterfeit, fake and sub-standard products coming into the country. “Our core mandate is to en­sure that products and services locally made or imported into Nigeria meet standards and quality benchmarks in line with global best practices. “You know, before you can do anything either in produc­tion or services, you need to gather the necessary data. And that is why this intervention by NFIU comes in handy for us to do documentation, intelligence reports in order to detect and track dubious importers and fraudsters. “The collaboration would go a long way to unmask the hid­den hands backing importation of substandard goods into the country. This would in turn help check the menace of fake products across the country,’’ Salim said. POLL Mr. Modibbo Hammah Tukur, the Chief Executive Officer, NFIU, disclosed that the influx of fake and sub-stan­dard products into the country would be controlled via effec­tive collaborative efforts and in­formation sharing among the relevant government agencies.