Mauricio Pochettino will reportedly look to bring Harry Kane with him to Manchester United if he is appointed their new boss. Mirror Sport revealed last week that the Paris-Saint Germain manager is the leading contender to take over from interim boss Ralf Rangnick in the summer – and the Old Trafford hierarchy are confident they can land him. Pochettino is likely to leave Paris this summer and has made no secret of his desire to return to the Premier League. Rudiger Contract Breakthrough Highlights Chelsea Stance On… Chelsea Backed To Retain UCL Crown Ahead Of Club World Cup Final Erik ten Hag and Luis Enrique are also in the frame to take the job but the general consensus from the United dressing room is they would like Pochettino to have it. And if he does make the move to Manchester, he will look to reunite with Kane, according to The Telegraph. The pair formed a successful partnership at Tottenham as the north Londoners narrowly missed out on a Champions League crown in 2019. Kane expressed his desire to leave Spurs in the summer as Manchester City looked to prise him away from his boyhood club. But Daniel Levy refused to sell his star man unless a bid of £150million arrived at his doorstep. POLL And now their rivals United could be the latest club to test his resolve if Pochettino arrives at Old Trafford in the summer. United’s transfer activity could be dictated by the future of Ronaldo, however, who is tied down for another year. The Portugal legend secured a dream return to Old Trafford last summer but it’s not gone according to plan. And if United fail to secure Champions League football for next season, his stay could be cut short. It’s claimed Ronaldo is set to have crunch talks with agent Jorge Mendes after becoming ‘disillusioned’ with life at the Theatre of Dreams. Man City Need ‘Incredible’ Points Total To Win Title… UEFA On Verge Of 40% Leap In European Club TV Revenues Ronaldo’s departure could pave the way for Kane, however, which would be an ideal scenario for Pochettino to build his team in the long-run. Signing a new midfielder will be the first order of business in the summer, and the wheels are already in motion as United do their due diligence from now until the end of the season. It’s an area they have failed to address the past two windows and the Red Devils will leave no stone unturned, as result. They will have an initial list of 15 targets which will then be cut down to 10, before finally deciding on a three-man shortlist where negotiations with clubs and representatives will begin, according to ESPN. United’s plan will get underway before a permanent manager is appointed, while Declan Rice, Kalvin Phillips and Amadou Haidara are all being considered. Multiple reports suggest West Ham’s Rice is at the top of the club’s shortlist and is certainly a player who would thrive under Pochettino. His introduction, along with Kane as a focal point, could give Pochettino a dream line-up to build on and look to turn things arounds if he takes charge. Potential Man United XI under Pochettino : De Gea, Shaw, Maguire, Varane, Dalot, McTominay, Rice, Fernandes, Sancho, Rashford, Kane.