ABAKILIKI – Former Secretary to Ebonyi State Government, Professor Benard Odoh is set to join Ebonyi 2023 governorship race. Professor Odoh dropped the hint in a statement personally signed by him on Monday. Odoh was reacting to governorship campaign posters bearing his images and memes that have been circulating in social media for days. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… NFF Dumps Paseiro, Retains Eguavoen As Super Eagles Interim… The Professor of Geophysics said he would make an official statement on the 2023 general elections, in the weeks ahead. He, however, appreciated the kind words, promised support, valuable insights, love and guidance by the people, describing them as gratifying. The statement reads, “in the past 24 hours or so, the various Social media platforms have been awash with some posters bearing my images and memes regarding Ebonyi 2023 Governorship intention. “While I’m yet to make a public statement on the 2023 Governorship election in Ebonyi State, your kind words, promised supports, valuable insights, love and guidance are all the same very gratifying. “I thank you most profoundly for the cheering sentiments, exciting comments and criticisms. POLL “I am genuinely pleased with your gathering confidence and genuine faith in me, my abilities and most importantly; my personage. “Be rest assured however of my total devotion to the tenets of good governance required for our secured future. “May I also inform you that in the weeks ahead, I’ll make an official statement regarding my stand on the 2023 General elections. “Afterall, as Abigail Adams sums it in her Rhetorical analysis to John Adams: “The Spirit that prevails among men of all degrees, all ages and sexes is the Spirit of Liberty.” Reps Move To Recover N1.2trn Unpaid Govt Funds Nigeria Living On Extra Time, Will Be In Deeper Hole In 2023 —… “Most sincerely and assuredly yours. Professor Odoh, on April 2, 2018, resigned from the government of Engr. David Umahi as the SSG over what he termed irreconcilable differences. In 2018, Odoh contested the primary election of the ruling APC during which he emerged as the First Runner-up.