Chief Olabode George, the Atona Oodua of the Source and former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in this interview with TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI, shares his thoughts on developments in the nation ahead of the 2023 general elections. Excerpts: Some elders of your party are concerned that the national chairman, Iyorchia Ayu has been taking orders from state governors and has technically surrendered the party to them. Are you also worried about that? Ayu is one of the nine people that started this party and he is not a pushover character. He is a very deft politician who is highly experienced. For those who are complaining about the governors, are they also not members of the party? They can’t be governors in perpetuity. If he listens to them, it doesn’t mean he will just take their advice hook, line and sinker. He will listen to what they say but he will think it through and examine it before taking a decision. The beauty of democracy is that we must have robust debate before any decision is taken. There is no organisation that does not have one crisis or the other. But the ability of the managers to go through serious discussion, lobby, which are all part of democracy, determines their strength. At the centre of such serious discussion is the truth which they must tell themselves. Senator Ajibola Bashir Declares Support For Oyetola South-South PDP Youth Leaders’ Summit: Owonaro Hails Okowa… I want to tell our people to just hold on a little bit. I really don’t know where these fireworks are coming from. To me, the man is committed and abidingly loyal to the cause of the PDP. Like I said, he was one of the nine people who started PDP here in Lagos. He knows the culture and workings of the party. The moment we had a presidential candidate, automatically, the presidential candidate becomes the leader of the party. But because there was a lacuna, the period of absence of the former Vice- President who was our presidential candidate created a vacuum in the hierarchy. The governors then felt they can’t leave the headship vacant. So, they got into it and they are now telling us that they now own the party. It’s like a competition and a chunky part of the party Have you ever seen anybody who is governor who will one day not leave his position? The position is not a perpetual one. So, to me, I will say let them still give the new NWC time. They are just settling down because the former NWC that just left were really ‘National Wacking Committee’. They never consulted anybody but were just firing on all cylinders and did so many things that we knew one day will almost bring this party down. They just started. They have Ekiti and Osun governorship elections ahead of them to manage. These are things that could have been better managed. They are going back to the grassroots now to re-establish the party which is highly commendable. I have no doubt in my mind that they will do their best with the support and help of other elders and stakeholders who are loyal to the party. All they need from us is our cooperation. We must join hands with them to ensure they succeed. President Buhari will be completing his term next year. Which candidate do you think your party can present that has the national appeal to defeat whoever the ruling party fields? When we get to the bridge, we will cross it. There are so many people in the party all over the country that are competent, cerebral and are nationalistic in their behaviour and character. This decision will require the input of the elders, the party managers, the governors, lawmakers both at federal and state levels to come together. We will debate and put all parameters in the equation and we will find a solution as to which zone and person that will become our flagbearer. We will get there soon. Do you think age should be a factor in choosing the presidential candidate as being canvassed by some people in your party? POLL All those will be in the parameter that the party will consider. But there are so many extra parameters now that are coming into play. When the founding fathers conceptualised this idea of zoning, none of them thought that there could be an issue where the presidential candidate will come from another party and from either Northern or Southern zone. Nobody ever thought about that. But today, it is a major parameter in the political equation of this country and in our party. General Buhari is from North-West and he will be finishing his eight years as President next year. Is he not a Nigerian? Do we say it doesn’t concern the PDP because he is from APC? You see that that parameter is a very key part of that political equation. So, we will have to sit down for serious discussion. I’m saying this because the number of people who are card carrying members is much smaller than the total electorate. We will have to weave the concern of the Nigerian voters into the equation too. I believe that because our party is not a conglomeration of strange bedfellows and we are also not a contraption like the other party, we will discuss and look at all these various issues and how it may affect the outcome of the election. Will your party feel the pulse of Nigerians to know who they really wanted before arriving at this decision? We will consider the interests and feelings of Nigerians across the six geo-political zones of the country because we will be telling them to trust our party with their votes. That is why anybody we are putting forward as our presidential candidate, we must be able to x-ray the person. Who is this character? What does he do for a living? How has he been impacting people in this country even before the election? Is he only concerned about his family members and cronies alone? These are serious issues we need to consider. We can’t just present anybody that will just appear from nowhere and will begin to lie to the people just because he wants to grab power. Once you start lying in order to get votes, it shows you are not reliable. If you keep telling the people lies, you will also lie about your competence. Only for you to get there and they discover you are not what you claim to be. That is not the kind of candidate we want. We want to know who you are. If you tell us you went to this particular school, we will verify it because we don’t want anyone that will bring the name of our dear party into disrepute. Nigerians deserve good credible management. We are seriously drifting and we can’t just continue to allow things go this way. We must put heads together to rescue this nation in 2023. We won’t allow liars and rogues to govern us in 2023. You turn yourself into an emperor and then said that you are the kingmaker. In politics, you are saying you are the kingmaker. How can an individual describe himself as a kingmaker as if the country is his private enterprise? No! The responsibility lies with the people. The people will decide who they want and their wishes will prevail. The issue of zoning is yet to be settled by your party. Do you think that is a crucial factor too? Okorocha Declares For Presidency, Pledges To Surpass Buhari In… Delta: Keston Okoro Dumps PDP For APC By the concept of our founding fathers, the position of the president is zoned North and South. It is never micro-zoned. If it is to the South, it is to the South. And if it is to the North, it is to the North. So, if it is south, it means anybody from any part of the South can contest. It is the same thing if it is zoned to the North. That was according to our founding fathers. Now, ethically you will say is the South-West, South-South or the South-East happy? This thing is not driven that way. They have got to earn it. They have to convince the others to earn it. It is not automatic. And of course, the issue of zoning remains the control of majority against the minority. That was why the First Republic collapsed. That was why I earlier said democracy is a tripod. As long as we ensure there is justice, fairness and equity, the platform will be stable. People should not go and sit down and expect that it will automatically it should be micro-zoned to them. In our party, the PDP, the position of the president is one position that is never micro-zoned. All the positions in a party, including that of the national chairman must be micro-zoned to balance a number of positions as the National Working Committee officers Are you happy with the harmonized position of both chambers of the National Assembly on the Electoral Act Bill as regards direct, indirect and consensus options? I am not really happy with the Electoral Act Bill. I was overtly happy when direct primary was slammed into that bill because that would have negated all the shady deals associated with who emerges governor, senators, president and so on. Let the will of the people prevail. We have done it before in this country through Option A4. Every card carrying member of a political party has the right to decide who will represent them at their constituency whether at state, national assembly, governorship or presidential elections. I am totally disappointed that we have to remove direct primaries alone and introduce the other options. That is the heart of politics and democracy. You give party members a sense of belonging and let them have a say in who they want as their representatives. Direct primaries also greatly minimises the issue of bribery because how many people can you bribe? When you have direct primary, every card-carrying member of the party will vote at the primary to elect whoever will be the candidate of their choice. For the indirect, they manipulate the party executives of the ward, local government and the state. In the United States of America today, they have even gone from direct primaries to what they call ‘Open Direct Primary’. It means that even those who are in the opposition parties can come to your primary and vote as long as they have their cards. That is how far the US has gone. All these indirect and consensus options is not going to help us. So, you are not really impressed with the current situation of the bill? I am telling you. When PDP gets into government, we will revisit that electoral bill and put normalcy into it. Why can’t the president just do the right thing? It is not going to affect him. He should put Nigeria in a better state so that his name will be in gold in the country’s history. Otherwise, we are just fooling ourselves. He said it is too expensive. Whatever money he wants to spend to bring about a civilized process for our democracy, no matter the amount of money it may cost you, you should do it. It is important that we do that. It shouldn’t be a half-way measure The Federal government last week announced the suspension of fuel subsidy removal. Do you think they deserve commendation for this? They know what they are doing because this is an election year. They know that in another one year from now, Nigerians will troop out to exercise their rights. If you know that you are not happy with the performance and policies of the government, you have the opportunity of voting them out. Nigerians are currently living under the heavy burden of financial crisis and then a government is talking of selling petrol for over N300 per litre. Such a government should be voted out. Whether you are a rich man or poor man, everybody is under a heavy form of crisis. You are from Lagos Island. Are you not worried by the perennial clashes by youths in the area and what do you think the Lagos State government can do to address the situation? Lagos Island is where I was born and I also grew up there. The difference between my time and now is like day and night. What has the government of Lagos done to assuage the pains of these young people? There was a programme under former President Goodluck Jonathan that they call skill acquisition programme. It was specifically targeted at and designed for youths. Whatever skills you want to learn, maybe tailoring, hairdressing, carpentry, shoemaking and so on, the government will advertise, people apply and the government trained them at the Federal Institute of Industrial Research (FIIRO), Oshodi. After they have successfully completed the training, the government now hook them into cooperatives and give them interest-free loans. With all the resources at the disposal of the Lagos state government, what are they doing in that direction? Like the Europeans will say ‘a man who has no job is a ready tool for thuggery’. We also have a popular saying here that ‘an idle hand is a devil’s workshop’. When the youths wake up in the morning with no job, they are in a state of helplessness and hopelessness. Yet, somebody is getting N30 billion every month. My advice to the Lagos state government is, go and create jobs for these young people. Even graduates are now staying at home in Lagos Island with no job. It is unemployment that is driving these youths into becoming members of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). I grew up in Lagos Island and it was the envy of everybody in West Africa. But today, it has become an eyesore where thugs are having a field day. Yet, the government is not concerned, they keep breeding thugs through lack of jobs. Fashola grew up in Surulere, see what he has done in Surulere to the roads there. Ambode grew up in Epe, look at what he has done in Epe. Even if that is all they can do, at least, their people are happy. The current governor, Sanwo-Olu grew up in Lagos Island but nothing has been done in that area. Lagos Island is now a squalor, an absolutely filthy area and overpopulated. When I go to my father’s house, I find it difficult to drive through because of congestion. Bola Tinubu is there. His wife is a senator for Lagos Central. What has she contributed? Nothing. The governor has to wake up to his responsibilities. I don’t know what he thinks is governance. Governance is defined as the management of the resources of the area for the benefit of the people. The governor must treat this issue with utmost urgency by creating jobs for the people. He has to modernise the road networks there. Marina which is the commercial centre of Lagos state is in Lagos Island. We can’t continue to watch and allow business activities to be paralysed and innocent people who are looking for their daily bread injured by these rampaging youths. Now, he wants to increase transportation levy by N800 daily. If he does that, it will immediately impact on the cost of food items and other things. I am appealing to the governor to be alive to his responsibilities.