LAGOS  – The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu has approved the creation of Tertiary Drains Squad (TDS) in the 57 Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas in the state. Engr. Joe Igbokwe, the Special Adviser on Drainage and Water Resources, disclosed this at the second edition of stakeholders meeting with LGs/LCDAs on Cleaning and Maintenance of Tertiary Drains in Lagos State held at the LCCI Conference Centre, Alausa. According to him, the Squad would complement the emergency flood abatement gang already existing at the state level to ensure that tertiary drains properly discharge into primary and secondary drains. Digital Online Marketing As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (1) NBA, Hennessy Launch First Floating Basketball Court In Africa While urging the Council authorities to think big, but start small, he explained that with the employment of 50 drainage attendants that would be paid a minimum of N35,000 monthly, the councils would spend less but achieve more, compared to what they presently spend to clean tertiary drains. Igbokwe pointed out, that there was no straight jacketed approach to implementing the directives of Mr Governor, but each council must adopt the strategy that suits it. The Special Adviser reiterated that the stakeholders meeting was one of the proactive measures put in place to have synergy between the State and Local Governments in terms of interdependence as it affects drainage channels He declared that it’s high time that LG/LCDAs took ownership of tertiary drains to reduce the pressure of cleaning of the secondary and primary channels where the State Government has continued to engage human and financial resources. “I am confident that this second forum will afford us the opportunity to agree on best practices to resolve all the issues concerning the cleaning and maintenance of tertiary drains which are the drains that run across our tenements and how Local Councils should be at the forefront of monitoring and compelling residents to clean the tertiary drains across the state” he said. POLL The meeting according to Igbokwe, was consummated to sensitise Local Governments, its administrators as well as stakeholders to map out a new course on cleaning of tertiary drains and proffer solutions to foreseeable challenges. He stated, this informed why the state government invited the major dramatis personae in the Local Council which include the Council Engineers, Head of Environment and Council Managers amongst others to evolve strategic methods to improve the environment and ensure a flood free society. He commended the enormous efforts of the Emergency Flood Abatement Gangs (EFAG), employed by the State Government and deployed to undertake quick fix to free manholes or clogged up tertiary drains across the State. Engr Lekan Shodeinde Permanent Secretary, Office of Drainage Services and Water Resources, said the time has come for Local Government Councils to take up their constitutional roles of tertiary drainage maintenance across the state stressing that all hands must be on deck as the present administration is determined to ensure a flood free Lagos in line with the vision the State Government. Shodeinde explained that there should be no excuse of inhibitions from political leaders in the discharge of their duties as far as such projects and intentions are well laid out.