★Slams APC For Allegedly Failing Nigerians ★Insists President Must Sign Electoral Bill Into Law ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), National Assembly Caucus on Tuesday cautioned the leadership of the party against imposition of candidates ahead of the 2023 general elections. Court Dismisses Suit Challenging Nullification Of Promotion Of… Ekiti Governorship Election: Kolawole Receives Certificate Of… The Caucus, while speaking through the Minority leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ndudi Godwin Elumelu, also berated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), for allegedly failing in all the electoral promises it made to Nigerians before taking power in 2015. Elumelu made these known while addressing members of the PDP Board of Trustees, led by its chairman, Sen. Walid Jibril, who were at the National Assembly to pay the Caucus a courtesy visit. Elumelu said the party through the National Working Committee (NWC) and the BOT should ensure that party congresses for the election of delegates and the primary elections are conducted transparently, just as he urged that lawmakers who have stood firm in providing robust opposition in the National Assembly should be considered for return tickets. “Please tell our party that this is the time that we should imbibe true democracy and there must be transparency in all the primaries that we are going to organise. Let the popular people be chosen. The issue of imposition should be shunned in our party. This is what my colleagues asked me to tell you. “For our colleagues too, this is the period that we have experienced pandemic. Most of us never expected it and we have stood by the party. We have done robust opposition on the floor and we expect that at least my colleagues who have been up and doing and representing the party should be so recognized at the point that they are doing this constitution of delegates and also preparing for the forthcoming elections,” Elumelu said. POLL The opposition leader also wasted no time in taking the ruling APC to the cleaners, saying that the party has not been able to get anything right since coming to power, including something as simple as constituting a party’s BOT. “Let it be on record before Nigerians that it is only the PDP that has a BOT established today in Nigeria. APC has been battling with setting up one and they have never succeeded in doing so. Let it be on record also that this is the first time any organized political party BOT will visit National Assembly members to interact with them. I say thank you to our focussed BOT. “Let me also state that we are not like APC. We can never be like them. They have promised Nigerians so many things. One naira to one dollar, but today it is N596 to a dollar. They have promised Nigeria that farmers would be able to go to farm and produce food for us, today no farmer can go to farm because of insecurity.” “They promised good roads, but if you go to the airports, you will see a crowd because we do not have good roads. The legacy left by the PDP government is still what we are enjoying today because of bad policies by APC. They are trying to mortgage the future of our children by trying to get China to colonize us. Loan loan loan!!! APC is known for loan taking and that is very bad.” “So coming here to interact with us is something that only a focused party can do. APC cannot do it. They set out to select state officers, they succeeded in electing 92 state chairmen and they have not reconciled in 36 states plus FCT. And they say they are going to do a convention. Let me take Kano for example.” Nigerian Army, NSCDC Synergize On Capacity Development Sylva Celebrates Ijaw Youth Leader Ganduje is leading some, Shekarau is leading some, so I wonder which people are coming for the convention, It is going to be another promises like one dollar to one naira. We are not like them who would go to the United Nations and lie that they have built specialist hospitals in 36 states. You all know that is a lie, but for a President of Nigeria to go there and say such a thing it is a big shame. We can go on on,” Elumelu told his party’s BOT. On the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the minority leader urged the President to resist alleged attempts by APC governors to pressure him into declining assent, just because a consensus clause was added. “We ask APC to sign the Electoral Act. SIgn it. Nigerians want it. No more delay we have ready for it. … they said they want direct primaries, we said if it would mean giving Nigerians a very sound electoral reform, we accept.” “They are the ones rejecting it. They came back again and said they wanted indirect and we agreed. They came again and said they wanted consensus. We have given them consensus. Again, I am hearing that amongst them, those APC governors are still plotting for the president not to sign. Nigerians are tired of APC”, he added. Earlier, the BOT chairman, Walid Jibrin told the Caucus that the reason for the visit was to interact with them and encourage them to keep being good ambassadors of the party, saying that members of the Caucus have individually and collectively made the party proud. He was accompanied by some former presiding officers of both the Senate and the House who are members of the BOT. They include Sen. Adolphus Wabara, Sen. Ike Ekweremadu and Emeka Opara.