Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi has urged Nigerians to take dual advantage in the production of locally made fabrics (better known as “Aso Oke” stressing that it would create employment and shore up the nation’s  Gross Domestic Products (GDP). Speaking at the  programme organized by a Non-governmental Organization in the State, the “Treasure Stitches and Aso-Oke Plugging” aimed at  creating employment opportunity for the youths, Mrs Fayemi  also underscored the importance of sustenance of cultural heritages. She expressed  joy over the programme and commended indigenes over what she called the developmental strides over the last few years. Security Beefed At APC Secretariat After National Convention… Ebonyi Assembly Declares Deputy Speaker’s Seat Vacant,… The wife of the Governor also reiterated her readiness to always participate in any activity aimed at bringing more development to the state. “Let me commend  the organiser of this event which has nothing to do with  politics, but a follow up to the entrepreneurship workshop organised by Ekiti State Government  in 2019. “I use this occasion  to reiterate the supports of Ekiti State Government to the success of this programme and we will always be part of the numerous programmes that  are geared towards  bringing more developments to Ekiti State. “I  urge our people to continue  patronizing the local Aso-Oke weavers to  boost the capacities of the local producers and enhance their livelihoods”. The First Lady also outlined ways through which they could be moulded to become good citizens to include proper guidance, mentoring and inculcating of virtues such as honesty, forthrightness and absolute moral integrity. POLL In her remarks, the Proprietress of the Treasure Stitches, Mrs Adeola Abiola, said the programme, which has no  political undertone, but was organise  in order to collaborate with existing institutions and public-spirited individuals to attract and engender sustainable development of Ekiti State. She said the programme was organised for an eye-opener to many and  door of employment opportunities and source of wealth to as many that are passionate about the fashion industry in Ekiti State and beyond. Abiola described  Aso-Oke fabric  as a hand woven cloth created by the Yoruba people of West Africa, mostly worn by the nobles and commons during special occasions. Abiola, explained that the programme was aimed at addressing unemployment amongst women and young girls in Ekiti State, while picking interest in fashion with a view to making them self-reliant. She explained that the programme also encourage youths especially the female gender to acquire skills in making locally woven fabric which can guarantee their socio-economic freedom. Enugu North Regains Glory As PDP Ends LG Polls Campaign Abia 2023 Governorship: Ikwuano PDP Stakeholders Keep Race Open She explained that the programme is also part of the numerous activities of her organization to tackle some societal issues such as unemployment amongst women and youths of the state. While soliciting the support of the Ekiti State First Lady towards the actualisation of the goals, noted that the special interest of the wife of the Governor in the development of women and girls with in Ekiti and beyond canot be over estimated. The highpoint of the prgramme held at the Adetiloye hall, Ado-Ekiti, was official unveiling and  exhibition of clothes made from Aso-Oke fabric, by the wife of the Governor.