LAGOS  – Air Peace has tendered apologies for its recent flight delays or cancellations, but the airline attributed these to safety issues. This is as the airline stated that the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) as the regulator of the industry was very much alive to its regulatory duties, which is very evident in the almost 10 years of accident free commercial scheduled operations in Nigeria. Air Peace in a statement signed by its management and made available to the media, said that no airline would deliberately delay or cancel flights and appealed to air travellers to take caution when flights are delayed or cancelled. My Agenda For IoD Centre… – Shuaibu Idris Misgovernance of Lagos Trade Fair Complex The statement hinted that as a responsible business concern, and in line with business ethics, it would normally reach out to dissatisfied customers at any given time to placate them irrespective of whether it was at fault or not, stressing that such gestures were never an admission of any wrongdoing, but a recognition that one’s customers needed to be happy. The statement said: “We wish to reiterate our resolve to zero tolerance to unsafe operations. Air Peace will never succumb to deliberate negative commentaries, intimidation or blackmail, to fly when it is unsafe to do so and neither shall we, out of fear of negative publicity from anyone or quarter, take to the skies in order to look good when it is absolutely unsafe to do so. “Flights are delayed as a result of many factors beyond the control of the airline and this includes, but not limited to bad weather, sudden aircraft malfunctioning and others. “On the day in question, we had bad weather that led to diversion of flights and sudden aircraft breakdown during and in the middle of operations. We had flight delays in Sokoto, Akure, Ibadan and Kano occasioned by bad weather. These factors led to multiple delays and outright cancellations never wished by the Airline. It happens all over the world.” The airline insisted that it would never endanger the lives of its innocent passengers and staff by flying an aircraft that suddenly develops snags nor fly when the weather was adjudged unsafe just to avoid deliberate negative publicity. POLL It declared that it would rather go out of business peacefully than to have blood in its hands and expressed regret for every inconvenience caused any of the passengers as a result of delayed operations. It reiterated that it is a responsible corporate citizen of Nigeria and the world at large and has consistently demonstrated its love for the country and humanity in very unprecedented ways to be described as a vicious operator’ as it was described by a passenger recently.