LAGOS – Researchers and experts in the enzyme production in the country have suggested ways in which the country can reduce the over N200billion it spends on importing enzymes annually. In separate interviews with Daily Independent, the researchers said that Nigeria has what it takes to produce industrial enzymes for its domestic and even export to other countries thereby raking in foreign exchange for the country. Enzymes are biological substances or biological macromolecules that are produced by a living organism, which act as catalysts to bring about a specific biochemical reaction. High Ratio Of Rural Dwellers, Illiteracy Fueling Cancer Cases Cystic Fibrosis: Managing Genetic Disease And Infertility They are used in industrial products including; foods and beverages, pharmaceuticals, chemical production, biofuels and other products. Enzymes are also used in industrial processes, such as baking, brewing, detergents, fermented products, textiles, leather processing among others. Stakeholders said that Nigeria can become a net exporter of enzymes in the world because of its natural resources which are available in the country. They also recommended that the government should place huge import duties on foreign industrial enzymes in order to discourage importation and that if these efforts are not in place Nigeria will continue to suffer economic losses due to importation of highly expensive foreign enzymes. Dr. Lawal Adekunle Kolawole, Director and Head of Department Biotechnology, Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO), said that he has been involved in enzymes production for a long time stressing that Nigeria has what it takes to produce enzymes. POLL He said FIIRO targets its research on what can be used by the industry, and that it does not do research in the abstract. “Over the years I have been deeply involved in producing quite a number of industrial enzymes, which industries are in dire need of. “It is so unfortunate that Nigeria spends over 200billion naira annually on importation of enzymes. That is the whole essence of our research and development because what we use is waste material from local materials.  We are developing technology that can help to solve the problem of importation. FIIRO has gone ahead to carry out successful production technology of enzymes so that importation can be stopped. “The whole idea we have as researchers is to save foreign exchange and that is what FIIRO stands for; preserving foreign exchange and creating employment for people. “We recently did a meeting to sensitise people and to create awareness that, it is possible to have these things in Nigeria. ‘O Ta Lenu’: MAGGI Show To Encourage Young Nigerians Explore… PSN New President Unveils Five-Point Agenda, To Boost Essential… “We don’t have to rely on importation; we brought together all stakeholders that are the end users of enzymes, to let them know that FIIRO has developed the technology,” he added. Dr. Anayo Orji, Ag. Head & Team Lead, Enzyme Technology Division, of Biotechnology Department, FIIRO said enzymes importation documentation has shown that about $10billion annual importation status for industrial enzymes in Nigeria and that there is a record of $27million sugar importation (majorly glucose and glucose syrup)  per annum in Nigeria. On how to reduce importation of enzymes, Orji said that there is need to use local resources; local content in terms of personnel and raw materials. He said that the activities of the Enzyme Research Group at the Department of Biotechnology, FIIRO began at the inception of FIIRO as a research Institute as far back as 1956. “Over these sixty years, the enzyme research group has emerged into a strong division, which has perfected technologies for microbial production of amylases, glucoamylases, xylanase, pectinase, proteases, cellulase, phytase among others. These enzymes hold a lot of promise and application in food industries as glucose syrup production, bread manufacturing, Margarines, Animal feed, Production of fruit juices and wines, and numerous areas of Food processing. “These technologies are developed to the point of acquisition by SME’s. We have signed MoU with Local investors like Archemedes Limited Ota, Ogun State. “They are currently building their enzyme factory and will be the first commercial enzyme plant in Nigeria. This is the right time for investors to move into Industrial Enzyme business to help save foreign reserves continuously being depleted due to importation. Speaking on what the government can do to promote local production of industrial enzymes, he said the Institute held a stakeholders engagement forum a few months ago  and that the objectives of the meeting was to identify stakeholders and end users of imported enzymes. Also sensitise them on the availability of these enzymes at relatively cost effective prices; interact with the stakeholders on their challenges while using foreign enzymes, and obtain feedback to improve on existing technologies among others. Orji added that it was emphasized at the programme that the negative attitude of industrialists in the use of these enzymes bothers around lack of awareness and poor government policies. He said that the government is expected to fund a public -private collaboration to establish a pilot plant for Industrial Enzymes in Nigeria and that this should be followed by placing huge import duties on foreign Industrial enzymes in order to discourage importation. Also, Dr. Temitope Fadipe, Chief Research Officer FIIRO, Head of the Molecular Biology Laboratory in her contributions stated that they are able to use agro industrial waste as a substrate for production. “That way we can bring down the overall cost of the enzyme production. More so we use indigenous organisms, we isolate the organism and we characterize it, they are local organisms that we use to produce the enzymes. We optimise the process such that we are able to have produced a lot of the enzymes. According to her, “As a molecular genetics, where I come in is the production of enzymes to be able to bring down the cost and at the end of the day stop importing enzymes. We have perfected the technology in FIIRO. “We identify the genes for those enzymes then we will clone the gene, then we over-express it so that we can produce the enzymes in more quantity and that way we will be able to bridge that gap and get Nigeria to a spot where it will stop importing enzymes. On what the government can do to support the production of enzymes, she said that some of the methods and technology they use requires funding and that there is need to train the manpower. “There are methods we used 20 years ago but now we have faster methods that can get us faster, though the government has tried, they have given us some facilities but we need more for us to be able to do more,”  she said.