It is only those nations that possess technological powers that can efficiently and effectively tap the global resources and use them optimally for the benefit of their people. Technological change policies should be integrated with a programme that defines and ensure that the well-being of working people; the community and the world, in general, are maintained. – Prof. Yunus Dauda, LASU. Prof. Yunus Adeleke Dauda of the Department of Industrial Relations and Human Resource Management in the Faculty of Management Sciences, Lagos State University (LASU) has allayed the global industrial fear that pretty soon, technological devices such as machines, computers and robots would render multiple millions of human beings disengaged organised labour. The well-travelled, globally recognised scholar and labour unionist assuaged this fear while delivering his well-researched paper as the 83rd inaugural lecturer of the university on Tuesday at Ojo, Lagos. “Technology Is Redefining Informal Retail In… Seven Ways Tech Can Help To Get You On Track With Your… According to him, his academic and industrial findings over the years have brought him to the conclusion that technology cannot displace workers completely from their jobs and render all of them jobless asmany employers, researchers and writers had imagined. Rather, technology, he posited, would continue to displace and create jobs even as workers will still be required in industries at all times in industries and organisations. This one-man radical position has, therefore, nullified the hitherto general apprehension that technology, which is considered the most important in all industries today, will soon take over all jobs in industries and render human resources useless. POLL The University of Ibadan Alumnus insists that “Technological development has not made the human resources irrelevant”. He added that: “People are still the only appreciating asset in the business that you can challenge their desire and innate experience. All other assets disappear, you write them off. You depreciate them every year. In five years a machine is counted as nothing in the balance sheet, but your people (human labour count and age makes them experienced and gives them better judgment… The only appreciating resource that we have got is the talent and skills of the people to design, to manufacture, to produce and provide services…” Prof, Dauda adjudged that “Technology is created by human beings to do things for human beings. It cannot completely dominate or destroy him. Man’s creativeness and ingenuity create technology and, therefore, it is a human servant, not his master.” Technology, Vital Tool For National Security – DG NITDA Technology Hub Calls For Increased Awareness Of Entrepreneurship… Rounding off his 130-page paper on the lecture titled: Managing Technological Challenges: Workers’ Employers’ And Governments’ Perspectives, the 62-year-old LASU egghead proffered certain solutions to the challenges being posed by technology to human resources. His recommendations include that governments should ensure that the curriculum of all courses in all institutions is reviewed and integrated with technical skills acquisition for all students. Dauda also proffered that governments should provide vocational skills counselling units in all schools, colleges, and universities. This is even as he added that creativity and innovation development curriculums and training to be introduced in all schools, universities, and companies to enable all students to develop necessary critical thinking. Training and retraining of vocational/technical teachers to cope with technological changesProvision of ICT infrastructure for teaching in all schools, colleges, and universities. Encouragement of creativity and innovation in secondary schools for effective training and learning in science and technology. Provision of training for teachers and lecturers to strengthen their ability to promote inclusion and impact of science and technology in companies and nations in general.Strengthen collaborations between universities and industries for industrial growth. Provide short training and internship for teachers and workers to acquire practical industry knowledge to teach their students and to cope with changing technology.A proactive approach to the transfer of knowledge from the universities to industries should be encouraged to promote successful collaboration and mutual benefits. Establishment of science and innovation centres by government in all universities,Greater investment in R&D of all universities departments and unitsProvision of knowledge transfer (KT) courses for the promotion of youths’ creativity, entrepreneurship, and employment prospects.Policies to encourage collaboration between R&D units in industries and Universities. Provision of up-to-date Science and Technology equipment to the universities to meet the challenges of the changing global digital economy. Encouragement of knowledge transfer from the Universities to industries.Promote and implement policies for collaboration between the researchers in all industries R&D units, and between industries and universities. Provision of incentives for the company’s graduates to carry out specific projects under the careful supervision of both the companies’ supervisor and university lecturers. Investment in high technology instrumentation and engineering centre for prototype design to be made by governments and companies. Technology bill of rights for worker’s employment and improved income Technological innovation, acquisition and management should be directed to build a better society, and the destructive purposes for which many nations are using technology need to be checked. In this direction technology threat to the environment and jobs could be reduced by promoting and implementing national and global technology bills of rights. 