AKURE – Resident doctors of University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital (UNIMEDTH), Ondo State on Wednesday downed tools in protest against an assault on one of them by the son of a patient. One of the doctors was allegedly beaten up by the son of a patient while on duty at the Accident and Emergency Department of the hospital in Akure on Tuesday for delaying in attending to his mother. Staging a peaceful protest in Akure, the protesters described the attack on their colleague as barbaric, calling for security beef up at the hospital complex to prevent a recurrence. Assault: Edo Police Arraigns Warri High Chief Johnson Asheleghe Doctors, Dentists In Benue To Begin Strike Tuesday Over Unpaid… Displaying placards with different inscriptions such as “We are physically and mentally exhausted, don’t add insult to injury,” “UNIMEDTH doctors now working in fear of attack,” “We are severely overworked. Stop attacking us,” among others. Ibidapo Bolayemi, one of the medical doctors explained the hospital was understaffed, calling for the engagement of more medical personnel by the state government. She disclosed that over 100 doctors have left the hospital saying, “It is rather pathetic what happened to one of us yesterday, an injury to one is an injury to all. Yesterday was the turn of a doctor, tomorrow whose turn will it be? It is high time the government and the hospital management did something better. “And at this time, we are being overworked. Initially, we were 150 doctors, but now we are barely 45, and you expect 45 doctors to perform very well and as a result of that we get tired, we get exhausted, we are being overwhelmed.” Another doctor, who subscribed to anonymity, noted that the protest would last two days, adding that “We are expressing our displeasure at the physical assault of one of our members by a patient’s relative. It is quite unfortunate that this is where we are now, the state of the institution is not what it used to be. We are short-staffed, we are not going to add any form of assault to the problems we are facing now. POLL “We are calling on the government to employ more doctors to reduce the workloads, that is the genesis of these problems.” She, however, called for the prosecution of the patient’s son who assaulted the doctor to serve as a deterrent to others. Meanwhile, the Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Dr. Oluwole Ige said: “The problem of understaffing is not peculiar to Ondo State and is not just among the Dr cadre alone. It’s almost approaching a pandemic magnitude in Nigeria. We are slightly more affected because we had a particular challenge that is being addressed. “At least salary over the last three months has been 100 percent and regular. “Every day, there are adverts for ‘urgent’ employment of medical officers and nurses. We have over 100 constitutional vacancies to fill that we are not getting professionals to take up. MDCN Inducts 24 IUO Graduates As Qualified Doctors UPDATE: NYSC Tells Soldier-Assaulted Corps Member To Leave Town “There is currently a lot of movement of juniors and young doctors and nurses out of our facilities and out of the country. Someone said those who remain are likely those who have failed in their tries and are frustrated. That does not now mean that at the slightest opportunity the system must be disrupted. “The government cannot change the brain drain. Humans will move across work and geography and civilization has been born on this concept. As a society let us make the best of what we have and we can.”