LAGOS  – At a time when most of his mates are searching for what to do with their lives, Ilesanmi Ade-Ademola, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Technology and Entrepreneurship Hub (TE Hub), a collaborative community created with the goal of fostering economic development in the informal sectors of Africa through innovation and entrepreneurship, is already contributing to the development of the Nigerian economy. Speaking in interview with Daily Independent, he said that the, “Mandate of the hub is to build a formidable innovation ecosystem with a deeply rooted network, cultivating strategic partnerships and practical industry know-how that can support entrepreneurs and innovators in building thoughtful, relevant, and scalable businesses.” He added that the mission of the hub is to foster innovative ideas through business incubation, technology demonstration, validation, and workforce development in the informal sectors on the African continent and beyond. LSETF Lauds Google’s Initiative Aimed At Empowering SMEs,… Govt Should Pump More Funds Into MSMEs Sector – Kuti-George The Chief Executive Officer of TE Hub said the organization provides Search Engine Optimization (SEO) services, adding that “we help companies and organizations to get more website traffic, more customers, and more online visibility with powerful SEO services.” He disclosed that the organization also provides web development services that help to “impress your visitors within just a few seconds. If it runs slow, if it feels outdated.” According to him, the organization also provides skills development services by empowering people with skills for their future and provides a means of economic empowerment that can be sustained for a longer time. Ade-Ademola is also the Chief Executive Officer of Legacy Access Hub Africa (LAH), an organization that seeks to make affordable housing available to Nigerians through an initiative called “Build now, pay later”. Speaking with Daily Independent, he said the plan allows subscribers to acquire land from the company and start constructing their houses without paying fully for the land. He added that this encourages people to build their houses with ease. POLL The name of the estate is Airport Estate and it is located in Akure, the Ondo State capital. He disclosed that what differentiates his company from others is that, while others make their subscribers to pay fully for the land they want to build on, his company allows the subscribers to start building immediately after they subscribed and pay in installments, adding that this was why the plan is called “Build now, pay later”. He also disclosed that the company started operations in 2020 and has done well in the market in the period. He added that the company has sold over 150 plots out of 400 and counting. He, however, said that the COVID-19 impacted negatively on the activities of the company, especially in 2021, adding that the fortunes of the company improved in 2021 and 2022. He posited that distinguished his company from others is the way the company acquired the land it sells to subscribers. Africa Guarantee Fund Gets $2.5m To SMEs In W/Africa Female Drivers Deserve Respect, Support – Onuogha According to the Chief Executive Officer of the company, the company did not buy the land outright from the owners. What it did was to enter into an agreement with the community that owned the land and pay as the subscribers pay. He said that the model has helped him to start the company without having a big capital that was required to start such a business. He, however, stated that the proper documentation has been done and necessary approvals have been gotten from the government. “Government is aware of the project and has approved it and we are already doing a survey of the land and everything about the project and the land is legit,” he said. He stated that there is no controversy over the land and the company is doing a lot of publicity on the initiative and the reception has been good. Speaking on his assessment of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country, he said the environment is tough and urged the government to initiate and implement policies and programmes that will make it easier for small businesses to thrive. “Small businesses are the engine of the Nigerian economy and a large percent of Nigerians play in that market and there is a need to help that sector to thrive and contribute more to the economic development of the country. If that sector does well, then the Nigerian economy will do well,” he argued. He disclosed that he started the business with personal funds and help from family and friends, stressing the need for the government to provide capital for people to start businesses in the country. He said that the government has land across the nation and that the land is not being used for any productive venture. He called on the government to provide land to developers so that they can build houses for the mass of Nigerians. He described shelter as a necessity for man. Ade-Ademola urged young Nigerians not to lose hope in spite of the difficult economic situation in the country. He asked them to acquire a skill that will enable them to survive in the country, asking them to believe in themselves. He said that they should not sit and wait for others to do things for them. He stressed the need for young Nigerians to do something and put their ideas into action. “I needed over N200 million to start this nosiness and I could not raise the money and I went in a partnership with the community and they allowed me to turn their land into an estate and pay at a later date,” the young chief executive officer stated. He, however, stated that the proper documentation has been done and necessary approvals have been gotten from the government. “Government is aware of the project and has approved it and we are already doing a survey of the land and everything about the project and the land is legit”