Barr. Nnenna Anozie is a   former governorship candidate on the platform of Fresh Democratic Party (FDP) in Enugu State. In this interview with PATIENCE OGBODO-IWUAGWU, she speaks on challenges facing women in politics, zoning arrangement among other issues. Excerpts Since the return of democratic governance to Nigeria in 1999, is it not ripe for Nigeria to have a woman as President or Governor? Yes, it’s over ripe but why it looks like we are not hearing about women is the discouragement they got overtime. Some women actually came in 2019 for governorship election which I participated in and I remembered over 70 women contested for governorship elections  in 25 states as it was published in one of the national dailies and that’s an encouraging number.  But unfortunately none came out victoriously, I think discouragement set in and some of us that were in the field discovered that even though we want to participate as women but the system is not yet friendly and encouraging  to us. A situation where you go to the field and you meet all sorts of violence and emotional blackmail. Some of these women are always attacked about their private lives and I wonder what somebody’s private life has got to do with election? These are some of the discouragement women are being faced with when they come out for election so when you don’t want to be called names or faced with violence activities during election, you’ll stay back. Day 2 State Visit: Buhari Commissions Keffi Neighborhood Market,… Troops Killed 63 Terrorists In Two Weeks As 466 BH, ISWAP… The financial aspect also affects  women participation in election, so it looks like winner takes it all . We keep seeing men throwing money around, how many women are empowered to do that?  So these are the challenges we are having. Honestly the system is not friendly but I’m hopeful that may be with the new electoral laws, some things might change to encourage women to come out and contest for elections What  do you think should be done to change the narratives of this discouragement? If you watch our Nigeria election, you’ll see that the space is being dominated by men. In Nigeria they see women coming out to contest election as not being submissive , they see them as rebels. Many men doesn’t want to support women. I was once on a radio programme when one man said women can never be leaders, asking me to go read my Bible that women are not allowed to lead but they will always play the second fiddle and I disagreed with him because that same Bible made me to know that they were so many women that led. For example, Deborah led the war and got victory . I want to believe that men are actually afraid of the women because they know that once women come into the system, a lot of things will change, we’ve being clamoring for change and we keep doing one thing over and over again, how do we effect  the change? We are already talking about zoning and nobody is talking about zoning it to the women and that’s why I see the zoning system as a selfish interest, if men have being in the field for years, why not zone it to the women and give them opportunity to see what they can do but they won’t do that. Lack of support from  is actually one of the major challenges facing women in election. So our advocate is that men should not see us as threat, we are not coming to take over the whole system, we are saying they should allow us partner with them to make the country better. This space has been dominated by men all these years, why not give us opportunity to come in and contribute our quota, we’ve got leadership potentials in us, I think the mindset of men are always that the  leaders should be jettison. The culture that  limit women from fulfilling their leadership qualities should be jettison because they are not helpful. Over the years since me have being leading, how has this culture help us politically and economically, men should not see women as competitors, but as helpers and partners, we can achieve a lot if we collaborate, let’s have a woman as the Vice President, there is nothing wrong with it what matters is for the interest  of the country and the people to be protected. A woman can be the President of this country, we have so many President who are women in other countries and they are doing well. When our leaders travelled to some of these countries, they are always happy to associate with them so why can’t we come back home and support women?. We were sent to Rwanda for an official assignment recently and as you know Rwanda is one of the African countries  that has huge numbers of female representatives in their parliament and we understand that both men and women were given equal opportunity. As we are still clamouring for 35% affirmative action which we have not even gone half but in this country, position are shared 50 50 in their country and look at how transformed Rwanda is because women are allowed to bring in their own quota, you cannot have a wholesome community if only one set of people are the ones leading all the time, men have been there for a long time, I think is high time women are given opportunity to contribute to development of this country Do you think that zoning arrangement will change the situation of Nigeria? Just like I keep saying, zoning is an act of selfishness, we don’t have national interest, if we have national interest, it won’t matter to you where the leader is coming from, what will matter to you is the capacity of the person coming, take an example of Enugu state, once they decide on zoning, whoever they bring from that zone becomes the governor or President, the electorates do not even have anything to contribute. I remember in 2019, we had a candidate to vote for but because it was zone to the North, they voted for the Northern candidate and that’s why we are where we are today, it’s high time we jettison zoning, let us be talking about competency, let’s talk about people with national interest, people who will hear the cry of the masses, selfless individuals is what Nigeria need and not zoning because it hasn’t help us all these years because if it has, we will not be where we are so I am not an advocate of zoning. For instance if you become the governor of Enugu state, you should serve as governor to all and not to be the governor of Udi or governor of Enugu West so what we need is visionary  leader  ready to carry everybody along and not self-centered leader. We should bring out capable leaders ready to develop this country because this country is collapsing, this country is really siting on a time bomb, if we continue to play money politics, vote buying, rigging and violence, women will not come in because a woman cannot turn to a thug because of election or begin to use her children as thugs. Everybody knows that if women are given opportunity in leadership space, a lot will change in this country POLL What should be done to bring to an end the spate Insecurity ravaging the  country? The issue of insecurity has become a disease, cancerous because nobody is even safe again. In the south east for instance, people sit at home every Mondays, what had our leaders done? But still busy clamoring for zoning and leadership position. Which people are you going to lead? Is it when everybody is dead? What has been done to the killings happening in the region?  But we are busy clamouring for 2022 when the people you’ll lead are already dying. Our President should look into political solution towards bringing an end to the issues of Nnamdi Kalu saga because that’s part of insecurity ravaging the region. Again if you are proscribing some set of people as activities they’ve done as terrorists, also proscribe these bandits. Look at the way kidnapping has become a lucrative business in the Northern part, people kidnap others and they are given ransom to release them. What should we do? None of these generals should be sitting in the office, they should go to the field, you don’t sit at home when your house is on fire, Nigeria is on fire, we cannot pretend about it so it’s high time everybody contributes in solving the security challenges. Our police should also be equipped because some police men complained of not capable of going after the bandits because they have more sophisticated weapon.