Adaeze Ndubuisi, Chief Executive Officer of Xquisite Glow Lounge is a skincare and beauty outfit. In this conversation with JOY ANIGBGOGU, she speaks about the importance of looking good to boost confidence in other areas of endeavour, why the government should intervene in forex challenges, among other issues. Excerpts: What is the story behind Xquisite Glow Lounge? Xquisite Glow Lounge is a skincare and beauty company located in Lagos and fully registered under corporate affairs commission (CAC). Inflation Is Forcing Business Owners To Close Shops – Ikondu Educating Citizens Will Eradicate Crime, Improve Economy Of Any… Our major duty is to help our valued customers regain their confidence and beauty by assisting them achieve that healthy and glowing skin tone. We have different skincare products for different skin types and shades. We are also into other beauty aesthetics like; facial treatments, micro-blading, lash extensions, etcetera. We do so much to ensure that our clients are happy and have confidence because if your skin is not looking good, it has a way of affecting your confidence. You just feel like everyone is aware that something is wrong with you, which could have a negative impact on your activities and confidence. Your career, business and so many other things, including socials could be affected. We are happy that we are putting smiles on the faces of our customers by the testimonies that we get on a daily basis. Our social media handles are always active for easy access and consultations. This is a good opportunity for me to also say that our Facebook page; xquisite glow lounge POLL Instagram page; Qxuisiteglowlounge are very active, and we are ready to help more people who are in need. What actually inspired you into investing your time and capital in the beauty business? I am somebody who likes to look good right from when I was growing up. I always wanted to see my skin glow, so that was one angle to it. The inspiration to go into skincare actually came after my National Youth Service Corps (NSYC). I had my orientation in the Northern part of the country. During the camping I lost my skin completely due to the weather conditions over there. It took a whole year to get my skin back. I didn’t just fold my hands during that period; I tried to get a solution to the problem. After trying so many products, I went on a research and that was how Xquisite Glow Lounge was birthed. High Cost Of Food In Nigeria Is Caused By Insecurity – Ononye Govt Should Reduce Import Duty On Health Related Products – Ukor I didn’t just start, I also went through training, got a lot of experiences and today by the grace of God we are also making our customers happy by restoring their confidence which some of them lost during the period they had challenges with their skin. It is not only when they have challenges that we render services, we also counsel them to maintain their beauty. It is one thing to have good skin; it is another thing to ensure that your skin keeps glowing. It is one of our key responsibilities, ensuring that your skin remains beautiful. How have you been coping with getting patronage in this period of economic downturn when the immediate need of most people is food? This business will be three years in April this year, and so far God has been faithful. It is true that there is an economic downturn and a lot of people’s immediate need is food as you rightly pointed out, but our business is also thriving because we have customers who are in need of our services. It is possible that we could do more if the economy were to be what it should be. One thing is that if you offer quality services, you must get buyers for your services. I trained from one of the best skin clinics in town. I actually trained as a skin therapist at d.links skin clinic. I didn’t stop at that; I went further to acquire training from kammys house of beauty as a beautician. You can see that I am complete in this line of business. Anyone who wants your services is sure of what she will get and so she will be ready to pay for it because she is sure of the value that will accrue to her. You talk as though your services are exclusive to women. Do you also have male customers? We service all genders, but you know that most times we service more female customers. As you know, in the area of beauty care, it is a woman’s world. A woman is the one that will get attention when her skin is not what it should be, even her husband or partner will be the first to ask her to seek help. It doesn’t mean that we don’t service men; we service everyone who needs our services. How do you source your products and raw materials? We source both locally and internationally. Some of our products are imported and we also source some of them within the country. Some of them are the common fruits that you know which we process and use them to meet our clients’ needs. The issue of high forex, doesn’t it pose a challenge to your business? Hike in forex and inaccessibility, is a problem that affects all businesses in the country, and not just Xquisite Glow Lounge because Nigeria is an import bound country, if you are not importing finished products, you will be importing raw materials for your production. We have always appealed to the policy makers in the country to ensure that our country is investment friendly so that not only will the local manufacturers thrive, but even foreign companies will see Nigeria as an investment destination where they will come and do business. I am sure that the government will need more Nigerians to be employed, especially the youths. If that is a priority for the government, it should ensure that there is an enabling environment for businesses to grow, and one of that should be to address foreign exchange challenges. This issue is what you hear any time you have an opportunity to discuss with business owners, so it is really an issue that requires urgent attention. The imported products that we use are sold based on what we buy so that in effect means that whatever additional cost that we get for the products is also transferred to the customer since we are not a charity organization. We are in business to make profit, but it will be better for every entrepreneur to have a reduced cost of production so that he or she will be able to make more sales. The truth is that you cannot pass all the cost to your client because you want to remain competitive. Most times you will just keep only a minimum margin, in other words as a business owner you tend to forgo some of your profit to remain competitive. Where do you hope to be in the next five years? We will expand in the next five years. We are presently operating from Lagos State alone; and we hope to have offices in other parts of the country especially major cities like Abuja and Port Harcourt. We are happy that our brand is fast growing and I am very optimistic that in five years’ time we would have made more progress.