The truth is that, like most Nigerians, some of us in the commentariat had thought that as an ex-army general, President Buhari would stand his ground against forces around him that are creating fear and panic that the heavens would literarily fall if certain policies such as direct primaries and removal of petrol subsidy and resort to the use of soldiers of fortunes (hired foreign mercenaries) to flush out terrorists are implemented. Those who have held the president captive, are doing so in order to discourage him from implementing some policy actions to which he is often initially favorably disposed, until naysayers cause him to demur from implementing such policies that could have enabled him to leave a positive legacy that is worthy of emulation. Take for instance, the Electoral Act Amendment bill 2018 which is still in the pipeline up till date. A heavy siege was laid on President Buhari not to assent to the bill as passed by NASS for an extraordinary five (5) times even though the amendment has the capacity to improve our country’s electoral system and boost democracy in our beleaguered nation. It is not a thing to be proud of that it took the visits of NASS and governors forum leadership to Aso Rock Villa to persuade president Buhari to veto the bill after the one month mandatory period before NASS would override him if he fails to sign the bill into an Act. Although the bill has some toxic content, as the saying goes, a problem identified is a problem 50% solved. Having identified the potential sinister motive inherent in the adoption of direct primaries as the sole process for the election of party candidates, it could have been ring-fenced to prevent the implementation of the negative intentions contained therein while still enjoying the positive values. Reducing Nigeria’s Fertility Rate Through Revised National… And The Sons Of Senghor Prevailed Instead, the bill was vetoed and our country once again ended up throwing away the baby and the bathwater as a policy that has the capacity to strengthen our democracy was sacrificed on the altar of fear. Similarly, removing petrol subsidy which has evolved into a sort of vicious beast devouring our country’s treasury was deemed as fait accompli when the 2022 budget was passed with the plan to completely eliminate subsidy on the pump price of petrol by the middle of the year. But after another visit to Aso Rock Villa by the usual suspects-the leadership of the senate and governors forum, the finance Minister Zainab Ahmed and perhaps Doyin Salami led economic council were literarily thrown under the bus by President Buhari when he reversed the policy by increasing provision for petrol subsidy which is basically subsidising consumption instead of production (which could have been the ideal economic policy) from N400 billion to N3 trillion. Shockingly, as earlier highlighted, Buhari also postponed the removal of petrol subsidy by 18 months when he would be leaving office in 17 months’ time. By doing so, the evil or day of reckoning has been effectively postponed and President Buhari would have left office as President before the petrol subsidy was removed. Where does such an escapist policy situate our President morally and in leadership? Certainly not in a good place. If President Buhari had the patriotic confidence to close our borders to stem the flow of imported rice to protect local rice farming which manifested dramatically in the rice pyramids recently showcased in Abuja, why can’t he close the border against smugglers of subsidised petrol out of Nigeria into neighboring countries so that we can determine the volume we consume locally, make realistic budgetary provision for it and consider encouraging our petrol retail service providers to extend their services to our neighbors when Dangote refinery comes on stream alongside the numerous potential modular refinery operators already awarded licenses, that can’t commence business due to petrol subsidy regime that distorts realistic market pricing of the commodity. Would the seeming failure to rise up to the occasion by not acting decisively with respect to the electoral reforms and removal of petrol subsidy, not vitiate the gains already recorded in ramping up farming, particularly rice production, and the positive outcomes in other areas such as railways development under his watch? That brings me to the conclusion reached by the authors of the world bank study: Where Is The Wealth of Nations? which strikingly appears to be addressing the current reality in our beloved Nigeria. In the section titled: “Putting It All Together”, the authors of the study made the following case: “It is in developing countries where accounting based on comprehensive wealth and its changes is most likely to be a useful indicator to guide policy” POLL They wrote that: “The evidence suggests that involvement in produced capital, human capital, and governance, combined with saving efforts aimed at offsetting the depletion of natural resources, can lead to future welfare increases in developing countries.” And argued further that: “The step from saving to investment is crucially important. If investments are not profitable, the effect on wealth is equivalent to consumption, but without the boost to well-being presumed to accompany consumption.” Is the scenario painted above not the sorry state that our beloved country is languishing in right now? Would paying attention to the wise counsel of the experts from the World Bank not be a reasonable idea for our leaders? I can bet my last dime that primordial sentiments and pursuit of primitive acquisition of wealth facilitated by the weak regulatory institutions in our public service and political system would deter our leaders from adopting such positive values contained in the study by the technocrats from the global financial institution. The authors of the world bank study did not just shed light on the hitherto hidden values in developing economies such as intangible wealth, but they emphasised the following paradigm shift that must exist for the identified benefits to be harnessable by pointing out that: “Achieving the transition from natural-resource dependence (apparently the case in Nigeria) to sustained balanced growth requires a set of institutions that are capable of managing the natural resource, collecting rents, and directing these rents into profitable investments.” Are these not the institutions that are manifestly lacking in our country? Finally, the authors of the study concluded by stating unequivocally that the below listed institutional framework must be in place for the transformation of one form of wealth, let’s say oil/gas in the soil into other forms of wealth such as the acquisition of infrastructures like railroads, buildings, machines, and human capital, etc to manifest. “Resource policy, fiscal policy, and political economy all have a role to play in this transformation.” Petrol Subsidy Retention: President Buhari Kicks The Can Down… Fuel Subsidy: Good Politics I believe that is the cardinal objectives of the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, which although has since been passed into law by NASS, with president Buhari signing off on it, and why it is now a law guiding the oil/ gas industry, the current authorities, (like their predecessors) lack the courage to implement the PIA to its full letter and spirit. I recognise the power of organised labor and the challenge that the government faces if the labor leaders are not carried along. But l equally believe in the efficacy of negotiations in resolving thorny and complex issues such as the removal of fuel subsidy. It is on record that our labor leaders have been insisting on retaining oil subsidy regime since the tenure of military president Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida when the Directorate of Rural Roads and Infrastructure was established following oil subsidy reduction; to Sani Abacha’s regime when a similar agency, PTF earlier referenced was also set up with funds accruing from Petrol subsidy reduction. And the labor leaders ought to have been reminded that government has been dancing to their tune by not removing the subsidy over the past three or four decades, yet the welfare of Nigerian workers and citizens that they are supposed to be protecting have gone from bad to worse mainly due to the fact that oil subsidy now consuming up to N3 trillion annually has been depleting Nigeria’s treasury, wantonly. That is simply because the revenue which is supposed to be invested into production is being used up in subsidising dubious petrol pump prices which is a consumption activity recognised by economists as lacking regenerative elements that are existent in subsidy on production. Since only a mad man does something the same way continuously and expects a different result, organised labor should have been told that the government is not mad, and it is therefore certain that retaining the petrol subsidy would produce the same result as the previous outcomes. So petrol subsidy must go as planned. Otherwise, organised labor should therefore kindly come up with alternative plans such as either agreeing to the retrenchment of workers to reduce massive overhead costs(recurrent expenditure in the budget is N6.9 trillion) or accept petrol subsidy removal and saving N3 trillion annually. As President Buhari pointed out in his letter to NASS that democracy is about the exercise of options, hence he vetoed the electoral act amendment bill featuring direct primaries as the sole process for political parties to bring up candidates for public office elections, the organised labor should have been offered the aforementioned two options. Better still, Nigerians should have been given the opportunity to have a referendum on the matter as IBB did back in the days with the Structural Adjustment Programme, SAP. Again, when all the facts are laid bare, I can wager a bet that Nigerians would have voted for fuel subsidy removal just as they would have also voted for direct primaries to be retained in the amended Electoral bill awaiting presidential assent. President Buhari was in a pole position to make the hard, but potentially life-changing decisions on the three issues of electoral reform, petrol subsidy removal, and ending insecurity of lives and property by tackling Boko Haram head-on at the inception of his regime and he opted to take the road less traveled on those matters. Particularly, because he is serving his last term in office as president, he has nothing to fear by trading the potential loss of cheap popularity for a long term gain of being the patriotic leader who saved Nigeria from self-destructing, via a terminal debt trap that like a boa constrictor serpent is squeezing the life out of our dear country via the retention of petrol subsidy in budget 2022.