Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has urged leaders and members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to unite and work for the victory of the ruling party at the local, state and national levels, especially for the presidential aspiration of the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He made the appeal while on a working visit to Amuwo- Odofin Local Government Area and Oriade Local Council Development Area (LCDA) on Wednesday, during which he commissioned the Senator Oluremi Tinubu Primary Health Center in Festac town. Governor Sanwo-Olu also implored APC members and Lagos residents, especially the people of Amuwo-Odofin Local Government Area and Oriade LCDA to participate in the ongoing registration of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) for them to exercise their civic responsibilities in the 2023 general elections. He said: “We have a lot to be proud of in Lagos. We have a lot to make bragging right both at the state and also at the national level. We should see that sacrifice of our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will certainly not go in vain and that is why I am encouraging everyone that the journey we have started at ensuring that we have Asiwaju (Tinubu) representing us at the center is on the right course. “As individuals and community, we all have a role to play. We all have a duty to ensure that the ongoing registration in INEC and the collection of your PVC is important because it is only when you do this that you can exercise your civic responsibility. I want to assure you that once you have that, nothing will stop us from achieving this agenda. “I think it is also important at this point to admonish some of our leaders to close ranks and work for the victory of our party, APC and presidential aspiration of our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. All the leaders in Amuwo-Odofin and Oriade should come together. We must put our house in order and unite without allowing anything to divide us. There are enough benefits if we work together. We are not aspiring to win Lagos alone; we are also working to go to Abuja. So, I want to appeal to all leaders to do all that is required for our party to be stronger. We should not speak with two voices.”