BENIN – Communities in Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo State have cried out over alleged incessant invasion of their communities by killer herders and appealed to Governor Godwin Obaseki to save them from the ordeal. The communities who made the appeal to the Governor during their peaceful protest in Benin city, also called on him to, as a matter of urgency, dispatch relevant security agencies to the communities and forest with a view to flushing out the herdsmen and restore peace in the area. The protesters who came under the auspices of ‘Save Ovia Group’ were protesting the alleged incessant invasion and killing of natives of their communities by herdsmen. Robbers Kill UBTH Optometrist Doctor In Benin Protest Rock Osun Command Of NSCDC The communities who took their protest to the Secretariat of the Edo State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalist (NUJ) carried placards with various inscriptions as: ‘Obaseki, wake up. It is not cows that voted for you’; ‘Sorrow, pains, hunger, tears in our land’; ‘Owners of cows are owners of Ak-47’, among many others. The protesters in a letter titled ‘Save Our Soul’, signed by Mr. Johnbull Ewaremi on behalf of the communities, and addressed to Give. Obaseki, stated that the appeal has become necessary, lamenting that they have become refuge in their own land. The letter reads in part: “Lately, we have come under heavy attacks from herdsmen who came to sack the dwellers of some of the communities, burnt houses, destroyed household properties, burnt farms and caused their herds to feed on our farm produce. “As if these were not enough, they have continued their unwholesome mindlessness by killing, maiming, raping of innocent farmers who are out to seek daily bread. “As we speak now, there is no single soul in Abumwenre II and Igolo communities because these marauders have vowed to kill anyone who steps in there, and also made these communities their camps. POLL “It will interest you to know, Your Excellency, that people from these communities mentioned are now IDPs in other neighboring villages as they have had to scamper for safety. Our people are faced with untold hunger, frustration and hopelessness because they can not go to their farms where they have sown.” Receiving the protesters at the premises of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, chairman of the council, Festus Alenkhe sympatised with them and called on the Edo State House of Assembly to pass into law as quickly as possible, the anti-open-grazing bill in the state which has been sent to them by the executive arm of government.