MAKURDI – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has assured aspirants in the state that it would embark on modalities that would make its activities all-inclusive and transparent. Rt. Hon Stephen Tsav, the Vice Chairman of the party in the state disclosed this when Dr Torngee Malu, an aspirant on the APC platform for Benue North-East senatorial district interfaced with members of the State Working Committee (SWC) on his ambition at the party secretariat in Makurdi on Wednesday. Tsav charged the aspirant to be deliberate and purposeful in his consultations and campaigns, insisting that the party ticket would only be given to deserving aspirants, whose elections would be determined by the electorate. Therefore, he assured the aspirant and other aspirants alike of the party’s readiness to adhere strictly to all-inclusive and transparent party activities. Responding, Dr. Malu, who is also a renowned plastic surgeon narrated his plight as a youngster, when he had ‘sordid’ experiences of poor access to basic amenities and education, adding that his ambition was hinged on some of his experiences. While he declared his preparedness to serve his people, he stated that he had set up some organisations to better the lives of people, even as his ambition was hinged on his desire to operate on a larger platform to address the socio-economic challenges of his people as a Senator. Also speaking at the occasion, State Chairman of the party, Comrade Austin Agada, charged the team to be resolute and diplomatic in seeking to represent his Zone at the Red Chambers. He said, “Your clear interest and message of emancipation of your people from their peculiar sufferings must be taken to all the nooks and crannies of the zone.” POLL Earlier, Col. Edwin Jando who led elders and stakeholders of the party from the Sankera axis to present Dr Malu to the SWC of the party explained that as a renowned plastic surgeon, Dr. Malu has transformed many lives around him and was seeking for a bigger platform to bring change and progress to the senatorial district. Also on the entourage of the aspirant were Msughter Hon, Bunde Yongo, Terdoo Kenti, Ukor Mterorga and Orban Jam, APC Local Government Area (LGA) Chairmen of Konshisha, Vandeikya, Kwande, Ushongo, Ukum, Logo, and Katsina-Ala LGA respectively.