AWKA – Police in Anambra State has said it suspects exhaust fume was the primary cause of death of two lovers found dead in a private hostel in Awka. The two lifeless bodies of the lovers, male and female were found on Saturday, February 22 at about 5:15pm in a room after their lodge was forced open by police. Although, it was not specific, a press statement issued by the police command said: “The Commissioner of Police CP Echeng Echeng today 21st February, 2022 wishes to enlighten the general public especially Ndi Anambra on the dangers of carbon monoxide, a dangerous substance that is very toxic to health. UNIZIK Students Found Dead In Hostel Room BREAKING: Court Dismisses Suit Challenging Atiku’s… “This substance when inhaled can cause serious damage to the body and can lead to death. The substances mostly emanate from generators, water heaters, coal burning appliances or any gasoline powered engine. “The CP made this advocacy as he ordered a comprehensive investigation into the discovery of two lifeless bodies (male and female) on 20/2/2022 at about 5:15pm in a room at Student lodge in Awka. “Preliminary investigation reveals fumes from the generator was strongly perceived from the room when the door was forcefully opened by police officers that responded to the distress call. “Meanwhile the recovered bodies were deposited to the morgue and no mark of violence was found on the bodies”. The statement urged the general public most especially generator users to keep them away at safe distance from the window/ any place the fumes can penetrate from to avoid such poisonous fumes like Carbon monoxide affecting the ventilation of the house. POLL Meanwhile, authorities of Nnamdi Azikiwe University,  Awka has said that only the female victim was its student and that the male was from the University. The Chief security officer of the University Mr. Ken Chukwurah stated this in an interview. Chukwurah regretted that landlords in Awka do not border about safety of tenants but only interested in the money they collect from tenants.