The ongoing Edo Technology and Innovation Expo has continued to showcase the innovative potentials of researchers in Edo State, with inventors thrilling participants with their ingenious innovations aimed at proffering solutions to societal problems. Some of the inventions at the five-day expo include an automatic fingerprint machine; a 5,000 litre/per day locally-made modular refinery capable of producing engine oil, kerosene, fuel and gas; a one-ton truck, and a pyrolyzer, among others. The programme with the theme, “Leveraging on Science, Technology and Innovation for Sustainable Economic Growth and Development,” is being held at the Edo Production Centre, Benin City. Nedogas, NCDMB Commission 300 MMscfd Kwale Gas Gathering… Fidelity Bank GAIM 5 Promo: 10 More Customers Become… The expo brings together stakeholders in the state’s tech community and showcases inventions that abound in institutions in the state such as the universities, polytechnics, technical colleges, as well as private innovators, artisans, and private companies, among others. The modular refinery developed by the Edo State University, Uzairue, according to the inventors, has the capacity of refining 5,000 litres of crude into engine oil, kerosene, fuel and gas. Mr. Prosper Ikhazuangbe, spokesperson for the Edo State University developers, noted, “It took us about a year and two months to come up with this setup. As it is now, it can produce engine oil, kerosene, fuel and cooking gas. It can refine 5,000 litres per day because it is a continuous process system. “We are eager for investors to commercialise these products.” The expo will run for five days at the Edo Production Centre, Sapele Road, Benin City, and aims to attract investors to facilitate the commercialisation of the inventions”. It would be recalled that Edo tech community recently showcased their latest inventions including an automatic fingerprint machine and a locally-made modular refinery, among others at the maiden edition of the Edo Technology and Innovation Expo. POLL The expo was organised by the state government to showcase some of the cutting-edge inventions by the state’s tech community. It is also designed to select some of the best innovations that will represent Edo at the National Expo, scheduled to take place by next month in Abuja. The programme with the theme, “Leveraging on Science, Technology and Innovation for Sustainable Economic Growth and Development,” was held at the Edo Production Centre, Benin City. Prof. Kessington Obahiagbon,Chairman, Edo State Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation, said the government is committed to leveraging the potential of youths in the state and supporting them to take competitive advantage of the global ICT market. According to him, “The Edo State Committee on Science, Technology and Innovation was inaugurated on the 23rd of November, 2021, by Governor Godwin Obaseki, with the mandate to develop a strategy that will make Edo State the hub for science, technology and innovation in Nigeria. The Address Homes Unveils Two New Luxury Brands In Lagos NESG Calls For Passage Of Food Safety, Quality Bill Before NASS “It is in line with our terms of reference that we have put this together to showcase a lot of the salient innovation that abound in our institutions like the universities, polytechnics, technical colleges, as well as private innovators, artisans, and private companies, among others. “What we saw in this expo are new ways of doing things better in order to save time, cost and create more jobs, which will, in turn, improve the economy of our state. I hope the awareness created here today will encourage our youths to apply their brains and talents in the positive direction and reject negative vices.” This expo is not for sale of goods as it is not a trade fair, but for sales of ideas and concepts in terms of technology and innovation that in the long term will create job opportunities,” he added. Mrs. Birgitta Okodugha, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology, said the state has some of the brightest and best minds in the world of innovation, who will help in repositioning Edo. Some of the products exhibited at the five-day Technology and Innovation Expo include a one-ton truck indigenously built by the University of Benin; an automatic fingerprint machine constructed by Ambrose Alli University and a locally-made modular refinery capable of producing, engine oil, kerosene, fuel and gas, among others.