ABUJA – Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation has underscored the need for improved electricity supply in the country to boost Nigeria’s industrial base. Onu made the call on Monday in Abuja at the validation workshop of the draft Revised National Energy Policy and its Related Master plan, organised by the Energy Commission of Nigeria(ECN). In view of the abundant energy resources in Nigeria, he called on the stakeholders to explore the wide range of energy resources available in the country for socio-economic development of the country. Huawei Joins MANRS To Boost Global Internet Security CBN Boosts Foreign Exchange Market  With $210m He said: “Indeed, energy affects development in all sectors of the economy, such as transportation, health, agriculture, industry, education, security, among others. “Nigeria is rich in energy resources. In both fossil fuels and renewable sources. “We have an abundance of energy resources. Our fast moving rivers, abundance of sunshine, wind energy, geothermal sources, biomass in addition to our huge deposit of natural gas, are yet to be fully exploited. “An energy mix that will utilise the wide range of energy resources available in our country, is needed and must be pursued with vigour for the good of the nation.” The minister noted that the Federal Government has been watching with keen interest on the ongoing research in nuclear fusion for energy use in many countries. POLL He pointed out that Nigeria cannot afford to be left behind in the nuclear fusion for energy use, adding that inspite of the capital intensiveness of the research, Nigeria would join other nations to explore the atom for energy supply in the near future. Commenting on the revised National Energy Policy being developed by ECN, Onu explained that it would guide energy development in a coordinated manner. According to him, “To guide energy development in a coordinated manner, a national energy policy and master plan are imperative. “I therefore need not underscore the importance of these documents always sought after by investors, development partners and scholars for insight into the philosophy and direction, the energy sector of our country is intended to be developed. “While the National Energy Policy (NEP) provides policies for long term coordinated energy development for our energy security in an environmentally sustainable manner and with active participation of the private sector, the energy masterplan provides the roadmap for achieving the policy objectives through activities and programmes with timelines.” Lagos Community Decries Epileptic Supply, Outrageous Billing NUPENG Assures Motorists Of Regular Supply Of Petrol During… Also speaking, Barr. Mohammed Abdullahi, Minister of State for Science, Technology and Innovation, explained that the first National Energy Policy was developed and submitted to the government for approval in 2003, adding that the Policy was an umbrella policy that articulates the way and manner government intends to develop the energy sector. Abdullahi said the revised Energy Policy provided for short-term, medium and long term plans and strategies, adding that the Policy would provide a sustainable basis going forward. Giving an overview of the draft Revised National Energy Policy(NEP) and National Energy Master Plan(NEMP), Prof. Eli Jidere Bala, Director General of ECN, explained that the main thrust of NEP is, “To ensure energy security from diversified energy resources option; in an environmentally sustainable manner and with the active participation of private sector.” Bala said the ECN is saddled with strategic planning and coordination of national policies in the field of energy in all its ramifications. He noted that the formulation of the policy has become imperative as it is a regional requirement as well as an instrument for the coordination of energy development in the energy and energy-related sub-sectors.