ABUJA – A group under the aegis of Civil Society Partners on Electoral Reform has accused Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, of abusing the powers and advantages of his office in giving wrong advice to the President in signing the electoral bill into law. The group said high-level of insensitivity to the public interest; negative disposition and opposition to the electoral bill by the AGF was an affront to democracy and Section 174 (3) of the 1999 Constitution,” according to the CSOs In a statement issued on Wednesday by the Executive Director, Adopt A Goal for Development Initiative, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, and endorsed by Centre for Liberty, Raising New Voices and Youth and Students Advocates for Development Initiative (YSAD) said the Bill has been transmitted six times to the President but there was an indication that the President would not sign it. CSOs Give NASS, Presidency Jan 21 Deadline To Sign Electoral Act… Electoral Act: Override Buhari Or Expunge Direct Primaries… The statement added that the President has declined the signing of the Electoral Bill for a record five times in the last six years on the advice of the AGF thereby making it difficult for the country to improve on the legal framework of its electoral process. The statement read: “Section 174 (3) reads: “In exercising his powers under this section, the Attorney-General of the Federation shall have regard to the public interest, the interest of justice and the need to prevent abuse of legal process. “On the advice of the AGF, the President has declined the signing of the Electoral Bill for a record five times in the last six years, making it difficult for the country to improve on the legal framework of its electoral process. “This unconscionable action of the AGF represents a clear and present danger to our democracy and it is worrisome that Mr Malami is ill-advising the President to act against public interest at a time that undemocratic elements are threatening civil rule in Africa. The statement, therefore, urged the President to beware of his AGF, whose only motivation is to side with dissidents who are poised to make credible elections impossible, and also the allure of using government resources to further his political interest. POLL The group explained further that there was nothing controversial in what the National Assembly has done: giving a democratic interpretation to Consensus and also trying to protect the operation of government by asking political appointees interested in contesting to resign a few months to the elections. “One year to elections, the country usually suffer serious reduction and double jeopardy in the productivity of elective and appointive persons seeking to contest, and therefore, it is in public interest to reduce the severity of this decline and distractions, by legally asking the appointees to resign a few months to the polls. “This new provision in the electoral act will reduce the use of government resources to the advantage of these appointees who are seeking elective office and thereby help other aspirants to compete favourably,” the statement added.