LAGOS – Saheed Olamilekan is young man with the vision to become a great entrepreneur and contribute to the economic development of the country. He is the founder and chief executive officer of Success Hand Craft, a company that is into using beads to decorate shoes, sandals, bags, clothes and other accessories. Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent on Wednesday, he said that he has a humble background and that it was his mother that encouraged him to abandon photography and learn beading. He described beading as an art that is easy to learn, adding that anyone can learn the trade and earn a living from it. N50bn COVID-19 Loan: NIRSAL Microfinance Bank, Entrepreneurs… LSETF Lauds Google’s Initiative Aimed At Empowering SMEs,… He told Daily Independent that he has been in the business for about seven and that it has been profitable. According to him, “Bead making is a very lucrative business and it has a lot of money making potential as long as you know your art and your target market. Bead making does not require a lot of space or significant technical training, which means you can do it right in the corner of your home.” However, stressed that it is important for people who want to go into the trade to get trained before they start to avoid pitfalls in the business. He said: “It is important for one to undergo training because this will make you a better entrepreneur because you will get firsthand experience during the training and edge in the business.” The entrepreneur said he organises intensive training in fabrics beading technique, colour combination, how to create beautiful beading patterns and how to bead without penetrating the fabric. POLL He disclosed there are schools set up by government where one can learn business such as bead embroidery and others. He also said that one could as well prefer a private school or even learn from an established bead maker, whichever one suits one best. “The experience will enable you to make different patterns, which will probably make you unique in the business,” he said. Olamilekan stated that a bead embroider can also expand his or her investment by selling beads making accessories, adding that the advantage here is that one will be able to get his or her items cheaper and get opportunity to display one’s products to other people that will patronise one’s store. The chief executive officer of Success Hand Craft asserted that a beads embroider can also make money by offering training opportunities to other people who want to enter the business, adding that there are many people who want to learn how to do it, either for their personal use or for business. He stated that one can offer training opportunities to students during holidays, because, as he said, many students and others are interested in one form of empowerment or the other outside the school curriculum. Govt Should Pump More Funds Into MSMEs Sector – Kuti-George Govt Should Support Agribusiness Owners In Ngeria – Adeyinka He stated that he currently teaches beading embroidery online and offline Olamilekan, who disclosed that he currently has eight people working for him, said that he adopted some success strategies that have helped him to prosper and grow his business. He advised entrepreneurs to take their businesses to the next level by doing certain things such as creating awareness about their products. He told them to create a website. According to him, “Taking your business online by simply creating your website will say much about the goods you sell. You can also display your works, which are the main driver of customers because they will like what they see and this will bring more patronage and revenue.” He said entrepreneurs could reach out to more targets by simply using Facebook Adverts, adding that going online ad is one of the most effective ways reach out to clients. One how to retain customers, Olamilekan said: “Once your product is sold, give the customer your contact card along with the package. “This will ensure that your customer comes back to you for more is needed and he will spread a good word about you as well. Keep an eye on all the craft shows/holiday sales around your neighborhood and make money. “You can introduce yourself to such shops and ask them to sell your products. This of course will require that you would have to share out a commission to the shop but that will only prove to be a blessing in disguise. The amount of publicity your products will get in a shop will be unbeatable. All you have to do is make beaded fabrics and supply it to the shop”, he said.