The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has engaged community leaders and other stakeholders to explain the rationale behind the aggressive cleanup exercise and removal of illegal structures around the road corridors within the area. While warning that the administration has perfected plans to plant trees along the road corridors, calling on residents of the community to help protect and nurture them. The Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah, who addressed the stakeholders from the community warned that the cleanup may be extended beyond the road corridors,  should the residents resort to further illegal structures development. Zamfara Dep. Gov. Impeached, Gov. Replaces Him With Senator BREAKING: Sacked ASUU-LASU Leaders Reinstated He stated that FCT Minister who earlier visited the community and saw the growing illegalities and other developmental infractions has vowed not to relent until that axis of the Airport road corridor was fully cleaned up. Attah hinted that the Sauka community, located a few kilometres away from the popular Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, is strategically located along the major gateway to the City centre, hence the efforts to rid the place of all nuisances. He said, “Our coming to Sauka was due to the Minister’s visit, during which he complained that the illegal activities at the fringes of the community were constituting a nuisance. “The cleanup around the area may last for a long time, because from our investigation the illegal activities are still going on there, especially around the Mosque. “Unfortunately, the Chief’s house falls within the area where the Minister asked us to clean up. We are hoping that the residents do the needful and stop illegalities,” Attah added. POLL The Community leaders, led by the Councillor representing Guiyi Ward in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Honourable Sunday Bikko and some of the chiefs, pledged to stop all illegalities going on in the community. They also agreed to dismantle the illegal markets and motor parks located by the road corridors which was agreed were the causes of the nuisances in the community.