A former Charlton Athletic creative midfielder and Nigerian-born British citizen Victor Ogunwusi has been named the new manager of England’s Kent County Football League side, Crockenhill FC. The 32-year-old certified football coach has been in the coaching department of the team since 2016 before his latest appointment. Ogunwusi’s first game as the new manager of Crockenhill will be against K Sports Reserves on Saturday at the NRG 24HR Gym. Fire Claims 1, 17 Others Injured In Borno IDP Camp CSOs: Buhari’s Delay In Assenting To Electoral Act… Crockenhill is currently placed 16th on the Kent County Football League after 21 games and the Nigerian-born player who is elated with the new role has however vowed to bring the winning days back to the Crocks. “Have been a player at this club for over four years” have seen players come and go from my first game and have watched the club declined. “We have had one of the worst seasons in our history. Our struggle started with the clubhouse being broken into just before the start of the season, few key players left just at the start of our campaign which let us go into games with our reserve side. Have accepted the offer to take this position simply because of my love for football and this club.” Ogunwusi who has beefed up the team with experienced players including former Super Eagles’ defender Sam Sodje who will also serve as trainer believed Crockenhill will retain life in the Kent top-flight division. “After playing over 70 games for Crockenhill and been to every single away grounds in the League, I have a good understanding of what it takes to defeat teams. I have brought in a few new players, I have brought in experience at the back with an ex-professional defender Sam Sodje to coach and play with the boys. He has a good understanding of what it takes to play at the premier level so we are pleased to learn from him.” POLL Ogunwusi, who has also played for Hampton and Richmond FC paid growing tribute to the Crockenhill chairman Steve Cullen for his leadership support and commitment to elevate the standard of the club just as he promised to make him proud. “Our Chairman Mr Steve Cullen plays a vital and important role at the club, he makes sure the pitch is kept to standard, he makes sure the clubhouse and bar are fully operational during games. Kits and refreshments for players are also taken care of by him. “Cullen is the reason why I’m so passionate to remain at this club and help the club out. Big thank you to him for giving me this opportunity. “We would like our fans to come down and show some support to this new crafted Squad and hope for a victory.”