ABUJA – All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders from the South South geopolitical zone have launched a strong agitation for the party’s National Secretary as the ruling party conclude plans to zone Offices of the National Working Committee (NWC) ahead of the Convention of the party scheduled for February 26 in Abuja. Hon Abel Akpan who spoke the mind of the Stakeholders, was equally of the view that the zoning of the national secretary position to the South South zone will help consolidate the hold of the party in the zone. He said that it would be unfair for the South East geopolitical zone to be campaigning for the party’s national secretary when it has held and is currently holding the national secretary slot of a major political party. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… The stakeholders have therefore appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and leadership of the party to consider the South South for the APC National Secretary position. It is evident the South East APC members are already clamoring for the position of the APC National Secretary with two aspirants from Anambra State, Amb. Jerry Ugokwe and Hon. Chidi Duru seriously campaigning for the position of the National Secretary. It is also believed that the former National Organizing Secretary of APC, Senator Osita Izunaso has indicated interest to run for party’s National Secretary. Hon Akpan said the South East have held National Secretary Slot of a ruling party, even though in another party, for too long. According to him, the South East geopolitical zone have held the position of National Secretary of a ruling party, right from the days of Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo as PDP National Secretary. After Nwodo came Prince Vincent Ogbulafor, late Chief Ojo Maduekwe and some others.Akpan noted also said that the incumbent National Secretary of PDP, Senator Samuel Anyanwu is from the South East geopolitical zone. POLL His words; “We the South South stakeholders of APC are demanding that the position of the National Secretary should be zoned to us. Our brothers from the South East had held the position of National Secretary of a ruling party in the past and are still holding same in the PDP.” “The South South should be allowed to hold such position for a ruling party, as this would give the zone a strong commitment to the party. “Yes, we know that we held that position of the National Chairman but we were not allowed to complete out tenure in that office. “We are appealling to President, Muhmmadu Buhari and other party leaders to consider it progressive to zone the National Secretary to the South South.” Also recall that the South South have held the APC National Secretary in acting capacity throughHon. Victor Giadom and they are occupying the position of the Secretary for the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), in the person of Senator John Akpanudoudehe.