Real Madrid have reportedly identified Liverpool superstar Mohamed Salah as a potential alternative to top target Kylian Mbappe. According to Fichajes, Real Madrid are in a precarious situation in regards to their transfer targets in the summer transfer window. The Spanish giants were the firm favourites to sign Kylian Mbappe for a long time, but their recent defeat to Paris Saint-Germain and the event of a potential exit from UEFA Champions League may cause complications in their pursuit of the Frenchman. To top it off, PSG have doubled down on their efforts to keep Mbappe at the French capital beyond the summer and have reportedly readied a bumper contract extension deal. It has compelled Real Madrid to scour the market for potential alternatives, one of which is Liverpool superstar Mohamed Salah. Klopp Urges Complete Focus On Leeds Before Cup Final Confirmed Man United XI Vs Leeds Currently regarded as one of the best players in the world, Real Madrid are well aware of Salah’s uncertain future at Liverpool. His current deal at Anfield expires at the end of next season, with the two parties yet to reach an agreement over a new contract. It has led to speculation over his long-term future at the club, even though Roy Keane has urged Liverpool to hand him a new deal as soon as possible. Amid negotiations with Salah over a new contract, Liverpool have been quite active in the transfer market. They notably brought in Luis Diaz in the January transfer window and are tipped to make a move for the young and talented Fabio Carvalho at the end of the season, further fueling the speculation of Salah’s future at Anfield, or rather, lack of it. It has put Real Madrid on alert, as the club look to find an ideal alternative to top target Mbappe. Los Blancos are regarded as the favourites in the race to sign Erling Haaland, but it appears the club’s hierarchy prefers a winger as they have no plans to replace central striker Karim Benzema just yet. Salah, to that end, could prove to be an ideal option given his staggering record of scoring 150 goals in 233 competitive matches for Liverpool. His contributions have been critical in helping the Reds win the Premier League and the Champions League in recent years, and the Egyptian is already considered as one of the club’s all-time greats by many, including Jamie Carragher. However, luring Salah from the Premier League could be difficult as Liverpool are yet to make a decision on his future. The Liverpool talisman himself has voiced his desire to continue his career at Anfield in the past, so it won’t be surprising to see him eventually pen a new deal at Merseyside.