PORT HARCOURT – In view of the multi-faceted problems confronting Nigeria today, the best candidate suited for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023 is somebody who is stubborn and has enough energy to work hard for the development of the country. Giving an assessment of his kind of presidential candidate to contest on the platform of the ruling party, an APC chieftain in Rivers State, Hon Tonye Princewill said the Minister of Transportation, Right Honourable Rotimi Amaechi is the only person that fits into that description and has what it takes to move the country to greater heights. Princewill noted that if performance and the knowledge of Nigeria’s politics are the needed yardsticks to decide who should be the country’s President in 2023, “then the cap fits Rotimi Amaechi”. APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns Speaking with select Journalists in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Saturday, Princewill said that the wealth of experience Amaechi has garnered over the years as a two-term speaker, Chairman of speakers, a 2-term Governor, chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum, a two-time Director General who sacked a sitting President and the best performing minister, “he is the best man for the job”. Princewill, who is a former Governorship candidate in Rivers State admitted that though Amaechi may be stubborn, “he is very stubborn for results. He does not take ‘no’ for an answer. He goes for results and he has always gotten results in anything he sets his eyes for. “Amaechi took over the moribund railway industry and transformed it into something that we all can be proud of as a people. He may not remember friendship when he becomes President because he needs results that would make Nigerians happy. “I am not saying this because Amaechi is from my state or region. I know for a fact that Nigeria needs Amaechi who has enough energy to work for the good of this country. He understands the politics of this country and knows how to tackle our multi-faceted problems,” he said. Princewill explained that Amaechi’s performance index as the best minister gives the needed boost to his capacity to become Nigeria’s best President. POLL “Going by what I saw in Daura, Katsina State at the occasion of turbaning him by the Daura Emirate Council, a lot of people up there love Amaechi and I know that they will want him as their next President,” he said.