ABUJA – Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, has sought more consideration and participation of senior civil servants at the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS), Kuru, Jos. Yemi-Esan, stated this when she received Faculty Members and Participants of Course 15 of the Institute led by its Director of Research and Library, Dr. Abdulkarim Daga, in her office in Abuja. She pointed out that civil servants are in the forefront of policymaking and implementation and therefore, should be given more considerations as participants at the NISS. Diri Tasks Stakeholders On Blocking Of Revenue Leakages In… 3,800 Civil Servants To Write 2021 Promotion Examination In… The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, who commended the wide-spread of this year’s participants, drawn from various agencies of government including foreigners, urged the management of the Institute to ensure that their services benefit the society in the areas of sustainable growth and development of the country as well as enhanced service delivery to the citizenry. She further stated that the theme of this year’s Course, which is,“The Global Climate Challenge: Prospects and Priorities for Economic Development and Conflict Resolution in Africa” was apt considering the numerous incursions into the country by foreigners displaced by climatic changes. She, therefore, urged the Institute to tailor their research, findings and recommendations in sync with the country’s domestic climate change needs and peculiarities before giving consideration to developed nations. This, she said, would bring out the uniqueness of Nigeria. While awaiting the Report of Course 15, Yemi-Esan further urged the participants to see the 10 -month course at NISS as an opportunity to serve the country better. POLL Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation, Dr. Abdulkarim Daga, described the Institute as a research-based, which seeks to find solutions to the myriad of global security challenges as well as make recommendations via reports to the Federal Government in order to guide policy formulation. He also explained that the theme for 2022, Course 15, which dwells on climate change, involves 76 participants drawn from various agencies and ECOWAS-member countries of Gambia, Ghana and Niger Republic. He noted that it was intended to foster inter-agency synergy, international cooperation and impact requisite knowledge and skills on the participants who needed to surmount security challenges in their various agencies, as well as individual countries. During the duration of the 10- month course, participants will be interrogating the theme of this year’s course by embarking on local, regional, continental and international tours of duty.