…As 16,000 Farmers Set To Benefit From State Subsidized Farm Inputs In 2022 Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal has revealed that the state has put modality in place to generate N250 billion from the exportation of onions. The governor, who stated this in Sokoto state on Sunday while briefing newsmen shortly after inspecting some of his legacy projects, added that the state has started the documentation of onions leaving the state. Buhari Mourns Victims Of Banditry In Sokoto 2023: Nigeria Needs A Nationalist, Not Tribalist, Parochial,… He noted that several trailers load of onions leave the state on a daily basis, adding that it is only in the state that onions is produced all year round. According to him, “We have started the process of documenting onions leaving the state. From what we have put in place, we will be generating nothing less than N250 to N300 billion annually. “We are the number one producer of onion in the North. Onion in Sokoto is produced all year round.” Fielding questions from newsmen after the inspection of the Agricultural Store in Kasarawa, Wamakko Local Government Area of the State, the Sokoto State Commissioner for Agriculture, Prof. Aminu Abubakar, disclosed that 16,000 farmers will benefit from the state improved seeds and subsidized agricultural inputs to be distributed in 2022. POLL Abubakar listed the inputs to include water pumping machine for irrigation faming, Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium (NPK) fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides, tomatoes paste processing machines, rice milling and processing machines among others. The improved seedlings according to him include rice, wheat and tomatoes. He noted that the subsidized inputs and seeds would be distributed across the 23 local government areas of the states to boost agricultural production. “Recently we entered into collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria on Commercial Agricultural Scheme and that project consumed about four billion naira. “What we have here are the materials that are going to be given to three crops that are going to be promoted across the state. Do Not Feel Ashamed, Consult PDP Governors – Tambuwal… Tambuwal Lauds Governor Emmanuel, Says He’s A… “The crops are 60 per cent rice, 30 percent wheat and 10 percent tomatoes. These are done to help our complete value chain, that is from the farmers to uptakers and even to processors. “The inputs supply are already in stock and list of benefiting farmers are already generated. Very soon, we are going to distribute this facilities to the farmers. “You can see that Sokoto State has transformed into rice producing state and wheat have also followed suit. We are also going for tomatoes. So this is not all,” he said. Some of the inputs already stocked for the programmes include over 37,000 of 50Kgs bags of NPK fertilizer, 1,500 pumping machines, over 30 milling machines, over 600 insecticides sprayers, while more are still expected. Abubakar said that the state government had been involved in several intervention programmes for the agricultural sector including subsidizing fertilizers, giving loans and palliatives to farmers in order to boost agricultural production. He recalled that last year the state government sold a bag of NPK fertilizer to farmers at a cost of N4,000 noting that the current price is about 12,000 Naira. “We sold urea at a cost of N5,500 and the cost of urea in the market is now N18,000. “This subsidy cut across the 23 LGAs. No local government is left out. The same thing is going to happen with the 16,000 farmers that are going to benefit from this project. “We have three categories of these farmers. We have the large scale farmers, we have the medium-scale farmers, and we have the small scale farmers. These are going to constitute the 16,000 farmers.” Abubakar said that the state government had put in place measures to ensure that the farm inputs were not diverted, by setting up different committees in all the processes involved in the distribution. He added that the state also had its Commodity Board to take up the produced commodities in a way the up-takers disappointed the farmers in buying over all their produce. These according to him include the setting up of a steering committee organising the process and a technical committee at every stage as well as monitoring committee and distribution committees in different categories. Abubakar added that the state also had its Commodity Board to ensure that when the up-takers disappointed the farmers, “government buy over everything they produced. “The whole aim of this project is to alleviate poverty, generate employment to our youth and teaming farmers and to improve on our food productivity. “In the case of millet, rice sorghum, tomatoe onion, wheat and rice. “In Sokoto State today on daily basis, over 60 trucks of onions are being exported and that is not magic, it has to be an enabling environment that has been provided for the farmers.”