IBADAN  – Barely 24 hours after three people includ­ing policemen lost their lives in bullion van armed robbery incident, another person identified as Afiz Agate has lost his life, many injured, while proper­ties worth millions of naira were damaged during the clash between members of the Mukaila Lamidi a.k.a Auxil­iary led Park Management System (PMS) in Ibadan, and some thugs popularly known as the Federal Boys. It was gathered that Afiz Agate was a member of PMS before he met his untimely death during the clash that reportedly started at Oreme­ji, Agugu area of Ibadan on Thursday, which continued on Friday morning. It was gathered during the fracas there were sporadic shootings which caused panic among residents of the area. DMO Auctions N150bn FGN Bond At N1,000 Per Unit Mass Construction: Lagos Losing Over N4trn To Traffic Gridlock The Commandant of Amotekun Corps in Oyo State, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (rtd), confirmed the incident, add­ing that one person was killed. Also speaking on the clash, the Public Relations Officer of the PMS in the state, Jelili Emiola said the ‘Federal Boys’ were not drivers but touts, who usually extort motorists, steal from passengers and oth­ers at the Oremeji area. “There is no fight between PMS members. What hap­pened was that there are area boys called federal boys, they are not drivers but they go about extorting drivers and stealing from others. “We have reported them to the Police at Agugu in the past, but nothing was done. Some even told us that the Police could not do anything to the boys because some of the Policemen benefit from the boys. “But yesterday (Thurs­day), while the robbery at Idi- Ape was going on, there was gridlock on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway and other roads. These federal boys seized that opportunity to rob people in the traffic. POLL “Some of those who es­caped from them ran to our park to take refuge, but these boys still pursued them to our park. We had to drive them back. They came back and attacked our offices after we had closed, but security agents quickly took over the place,” he narrated.