ENUGU – The Enugu State Government has banned the operation of Tricycle (Keke), Motorcycle (Okada) and Tipper-Truck in all communities in Nkanu East and Nkanu West local government areas of the state. The state government also banned the operation of Tricycle, Motorcycle and Tipper-Truck in the following communities/neighbourhoods in Enugu South LGA; Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/Obunagu, Obeagu, One day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland and Ikiriki. A statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya on Friday disclosed that the decision was sequel to an emergency Security Council meeting held in Enugu State Government House, on Thursday, February 24, 2022 “on the heels of the recent spike in insecurity in parts of the state and Executive Order No.1: 2022 dated 24th February 2022”. LG Elections: Enugu Declares Wednesday, February 23 Work-free… Enugu Will Be Better With More Developmental Projects –… The statement enjoined members of the public “to comply with this Order as the Security Agencies in the State have been directed to enforce it”. He said “Following an emergency Security Council meeting held in Enugu State Government House today, Thursday, 24th February 2022 on the heels of the recent spike in insecurity in parts of the State and Executive Order No.1: 2022 dated 24th February 2022, the operation of Tricycle popularly called Keke, Motorcycle, otherwise known as Okada, and Tipper Truck have been banned forthwith in the following areas in the State: “All communities in Nkanu East Local Government Area. All communities in Nkanu West Local Government Area; and “Also some communities/neighbourhoods in Enugu South Local Government which includes Amechi Uno, Amechi Awkunanaw, Amechi Uwani, Obeagu Main, Obeagu Uno, Centenary City/Obunagu, Obeagu, One day, Garki, Akwuke, Ugwuaji, Ndiagu Onunyo, Maryland and Ikiriki. He enjoined members of the public to comply with the new Order saying the Security Agencies in the State have been directed to enforce it.