ASABA – South-South Chapter of the National Ginger Association of Nigeria ( NGAN) has charged the Government at all levels to invest in ginger farming and production as an equitable means to generate revenue as crude oil. Speaking yesterday in Asaba during the inauguration of South-South Zonal Executives, Chairman of the Delta State Chapter of the NGAN, Harrison Opia noted that success recorded by ginger farmers in the South-South disapproves the assertion that ginger can only grow in the Northern part of Nigeria. He said, “Some of us who have worked in the gas industry decided to introduce the base approach to the farming of ginger as it is seen as a good crop that can compete with crude oil in the international market.” From Nigeria To Brazil ‘Halo’ Crops Reap Pandemic Profits Haemophilia: Keep Away From Ginger, Dietitian Advises Hence, he called for the support of the state government saying that diversifying our economy through agriculture and ginger cultivation and processing to its value chain is the way to go. “We call on the Government of our region to support us in providing a guarantee to banks for us to access credits to fran ginger,” he stated. Earlier during his speech, Delta State, Commissioner of Agriculture, Chief Julius Egbedi who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Mr Ben Agama lauded the ethics of the ginger farmers in the region in ensuring He pledged the support of the state government to the advancement of the agricultural sector of the state. In the same vein, Acting President of NGAN, Hon. Mikah Adamu urged Federal and State governments to invest in ginger production to promote the value chain which will provide employment and boost revenue as an alternative revenue for oil. POLL He further charged the Federal Government to assist farmers through its Growth Enhancement Scheme by setting up more ginger companies from the local Government level where farmers are organized. ” The organization entails ginger farmers to register members from the ward levels, local government as well state levels to promote the value development chain development of ginger as a produce capable of boosting wealth creation, employment opportunities and improved Gross Domestic Product ( GDP) in Nigeria,” he asserted.