. As Voters Decry BVAS Failure ABUJA – The Commissioner of Police, FCT Command, CP Sunday Babaji has applauded residents of the FCT over the peaceful conduct of the Saturday Council polls in the city. The CP who addressed newsmen who accompanied him on an election monitoring tour alongside other sister security agencies under the Inter-Agency Committee on Election Security expressed his satisfaction with the peaceful conduct of the excercise. According to him, “The election was peaceful in all the Area Council we visited. A lot of people came out to perform their civic responsibility. However, in some areas as we have noticed, the Biometric Verification Accreditation System (BVAS) mechines were slow. “Maybe due to network. But we made contact with officials of INEC who promised that they are going to deploy more so that nobody is disenfranchised. So far so good we will continue monitoring from the command untill the excercise is over.” Meanwhile, at Polling unit 003, PW Primary School, Kubwa the CP who expressed his happiness over the massive turnout of voters said, “I am impressed with the massive turned out for this election at Kubwa. POLL “And I can assured that their security well quaranteed. You can see that there are no security breaches here.” Meanwhile, Polling Unit 006, Garki, Area II which was the first point of call by the Inter Agency Committee on Election Security, headed by the CP Babaji recorded low turnout. Some of the polling units which had similar cases of BVAS mechines malfunctioning include Polling Unit 001, Zubwa Primary School, and Giri 003 and 019 University of Abuja Staff Quarters where only 61 voters were said to have voted out of over 2000 registered voters. According to one of the Voters, they only had one BVAS mechine there which was malfunctioning, compelling officials to use manual accreditation. As of 1:33 pm, only 61 persons were reportedly voted. But in a swift intervention, the CP Babaji called INEC officials who assured of sending more BVAS to the units. According to one of the election officials, the BVAS machine was slowing down the accreditation making the whole process frustrating. Some of the voters, mostly older people were complaining about voters who were not putting on their Covid-19 face masks. Independent, however, gathered that, due to conflicting orders concerning curfew in the FCT, most residents went about their normal businesses while the elections were going on. Most of the popular markets were openned and commuters were seen at various busstops within and outside the Abuja metropolis.