ABUJA – The former Senate Minority Leader and Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswil Akpabio, has underscored the effect of climate change on the economy and security of the country. Speaking at a recent interactive session with members of “Course 15 Executive Intelligence Participants of the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS),” the Minister said that the climate change being experienced around Lake Chad has reduced economic activities and the security challenges facing the nation. At the meeting held in Abuja, Akpabio noted that this year’s theme, “Global Climate Challenge Practice & Prospects for Economic Development and Conflict Resolution in Africa”, is a clear example of the situation in the Lake Chad region, which shares boundaries with Nigeria, Cameroun and the Niger Republic. Poor Attention To Youth Development Breeds Violence, Says… ICPC Secures Conviction Of Former Local Govt Chairman “The topic of the theme is very apt. Climate change and desert encroachment in the Lake Chad region has led to reduced economic activities in the region. The Lake Chad region, which was about 25,000-sqkm waterlogged, has now to about 6,000-sqkm. “To an extent, this has affected the economy making it difficult for farmers, fishermen, and herders who use to benefit from the Lake Chad that is gradually drying up now. The outcome of your studies, I believe, will lead to finding a lasting solution to the problem,” he added. The former Akwa Ibom State governor also disclosed plans by the federal government to deal with International Oil Companies (IOC) that fail in their statutory obligation to oil-producing communities. He said, “A law that will compel IOCs engaged in oil exploration and exploitation in the Niger Delta region has already passed Second Reading in the House of Representatives. “It is expected that after the bill is passed into law, there would be sanctions and punishment for any defaulter.” POLL Earlier, Deputy Commandant and Director Studies, National Institute for Security Studies, Mr Didacus Egor Egbeji, commended the Minister for sustaining peace and stability in the versatile region with infrastructural development cutting across the nine states of the Niger Delta region. The Deputy Commandant stated that this year’s course in the institute with the theme “Global Climate Challenge Practice & Prospects for Economic Development and Conflict Resolution in Africa” tallies with the Ministry’s mandate and is paramount to the Niger Delta region. Egbeji, further maintained, that the visit among other reasons was to hear from the Minister, what the Government and Ministry are doing to curb issues emanating from oil pollution in the region. He said, “When we talk of Global Climate Change, we mean what affects the ozone layer, concerning oil exploration and the degradation of the environment by the activities of multinational companies operating in the region.”