LAGOS – Ohaneze Ndigbo, a regional socio-political organisation has said that the Ohaneze constitution provides for only rotation of leadership among the seven states of Abia, Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi and Imo, Rivers and Delta, but doesn’t make provision for tenure elongation. The organisation in a press statement on Monday signed by Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia,  its National Publicity Secretary, stated that the attention of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo  has been drawn to diverse views expressed by various Igbo patriots in Lagos State with respect to tenure elongation or a second term for the incumbent executives of  Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos, stressing that the constitution of the organisation is Supreme in matters relating to that According to the Ohaneze among the issues deliberated upon at the NEC of Ohaneze Ndigbo, held on Wednesday, February 2, 2022, was the oncoming election in the Lagos State Chapter of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… NFF Dumps Paseiro, Retains Eguavoen As Super Eagles Interim… The statement reads in part, “It was resolved among others that the Constitution of Ohanaeze Ndigbo is supreme and will be strictly applied in conducting the election in Lagos State. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Ohanaeze Constitution provides for a rotation of Presidency and other offices among the Igbo speaking states, namely Abia, Anambra, Delta, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo and Rivers in alphabetical order for a 4-year tenure,” the statement reads. Ohaneze maintained that it has become imperative to address the issues as early as possible to avoid unnecessary bitterness in the build up to the forthcoming Ohaneze election in Lagos. “The Internet is already awash with avalanche of calls for tenure elongation beyond the stipulated tenure of four years. Such incendiary aspiration, if not nipped in the bud is capable of bringing the entire Igbo in a bad light. “There is no gainsaying the accomplishments of the current executives. However, it will be ill-advised, imprudent and self-destructive to deploy such accomplishments in the breach of the age-long Ohanaeze constitution. POLL “The President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ambassador Professor George Obiozor advises all the patriotic sons and daughters of Igbo resident in Lagos to have the image of the Igbo in mind by taking rational and edifying decisions,” the statement added.