ABUJA – The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) will on 17th of February, 2022, be handed over Rural Electrification materials valued at Nine million Euros (€9million), about N4 230 746 billion, under the Inter-connected Mini-Grid Acceleration Scheme (IMAS) of NESP II, the Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu, has disclosed. According to a statement signed by Margaret Oyinboade, Senior Information Officer, on behalf of Deputy Director and Head of Press, the Minister gave the hint when GIZ Country Director and her team, led by German Deputy Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Martin Huth paid him a courtesy visit. The statement noted that the GIZ team visit, was a follow-up meeting was held in a quest to boost and improve the electricity supply industry in Nigeria, including renewable energy. REA Embraces Off-Grid Solutions To Bridge Electrification Gap In… Engr. Abubakar, speaking during the meeting, affirmed the Federal Government commitment to see that Nigerians have an effective power supply through renewable energy. He stated that the Ministry’s collaboration with GIZ under Nigerian Energy Support Program (NESP), had remotely mapped over 3,937 settlements, 3244,605 buildings and 60,183km of 11 and 33kv medium voltage line of the grid in 28 states. This data when concluded will provide information for electrification and planning, least cost, electricity access and decision making for would-be investors. Abubakar said that six Solar PV mini-grid developed under NESP I is providing sustainable electricity to more than 15,000 people as of 2020, and 100,000 addition people would be reached under NESP II through the Mini-grid Acceleration Scheme (MAS). While congratulating the newly elected government in Germany, Abubakar chronicled further the collaboration between GIZ and Nigeria and said NESP II supports skill development in the sector with 7 vocational training offered, especially targeting an increase of women in the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency industry. POLL He further informed the meeting that under the Inter-connected Mini-Grid Acceleration Scheme (IMAS) of NESP II, Rural Electrification materials valued at Nine million Euros (€9M) will be handed over to the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) on the 17th of February, 2022. Speaking earlier the German Deputy Ambassador to Nigeria, Martin Huth commended the efforts of the Federal Government particularly in the Power Sector and stated the German government commitment to continue supporting the Ministry of Power. Huth noted that the purpose of their visit is to introduce the need for an energy transition which he tagged as the future of the energy industry, stressing that the Nigeria – German Hydrogen office has been created in Nigeria to support Nigeria to access the potential of Green Hydrogen in her energy transition efforts and her export diversification intentions and also to strengthen Nigeria’s capacity to tap into the potential in the future. He further conveyed an invitation to the Honourable Minister to attend a conference of energy transition dialogue in Germany slated for the end of March 2022 GIZ is an enterprise entirely owned by the Federal Government of Germany, supporting it in achieving its objective in the field of international cooperation for sustainable development.