Mr. Babatunde Irukera, the Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (EVC/CEO), Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), in this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, speaks on the Commission’s achievements since the last three years, and challenges amid current efforts towards more efficient mechanisms to protect consumers. Excerpts: As the Executive-Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), what are the things you will tell Nigerians that you have achieved since your appointment as Nigeria’s No. 1 Consumer Protector? First and foremost, let me say it is not apt for me to score myself regarding my achievements at the Commission. Dangote’s Automobile Company Kickstarts Vehicle Assembly In… Ikeja Electric Promises Better Deal For Customers However, since the question needs to be responded to, I will with all modesty respond to it to some extent. Let me start by saying that concerning businesses with issues that border on consumerism, product/service quality, fair competition and allied matters, that it has been an enjoyable and equitable experience for them, as myself and my team have tried within these three years that we have been working as a team to avail them of justice and compensations. As you are aware, we have at the agency, which was formerly known as Consumer Protection Council (CPC), been responding swiftly to consumer complaints, and in the same vein offering succor and justice to Nigerians by ensuring that they get true value for their money on products and services they ordered for, as well as in ensuring level-playing fields in all sectors of the Nigerian economy. Some of the initiatives we’ve embarked on include the ongoing move to jointly investigate rights violations in the money-lending industry, alongside other regulators like Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), and National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). This is aimed at addressing the dubious conduct of some money lenders, including the acts of public shaming and violations of the privacy of defaulters; arbitrary, unjust, unreasonable, or exploitative interest rates and or loan balance calculations. POLL Not few consumers have given testimonies on how FCCPC’s interventions addressed their grievances and resolved the disagreements they had with vendors they transacted businesses with. How has the commission been able to achieve that? The Commission is empowered by law to provide redress to consumer complaints. We use different regulatory tools to achieve varied results for aggrieved consumers. The Commission’s vigorous and unrelenting methods to deploying these tools have helped to secure remedies for consumers. Also, like I earlier said, the persistent and widespread engagements we have over the years been holding with industry and other regulators are hitting the right chords, and companies are proactively becoming more responsive; both as a product of our affirmed concerted regulatory approach, as can be deduced from their collective body language, showing that we will continue to pursue remedies to the fullest extent of the law, as well as, continue to bring the full weight of the law to bear where violations occur. The industry we’ve engaged understands that our mutual objective should be fewer complaints altogether, and swifter resolutions. NSIA Insurance Promotes Industry Acceptance WAGPA Gets New Boss What is the process an aggrieved consumer needs to follow for submission of complaint to FCCPC, and what hopes do they have for direct compensation in the event of consumer abuse? We have several channels for filing complaints. Our electronic platforms include a portal on our website, Facebook page, Twitter handle and by SMS. We also receive physical complaints by those who fill out our complaints forms, or write us; and in cities where we have offices that allow aggrieved consumers to just walk in and tender their complaints. Other methods are by calling our hotlines to either complain or provide intelligence on what is considered inappropriate in the marketplace. Despite the broad nature of our channels, our focus remains ensuring that the primary resolution process is for complaints to go to the companies; and sometimes the sector regulator such as NCC, NCAA, NERC, and then escalated to the FCCPC for a secondary resolution process, where the primary process fails or is irresponsive. Our approach to satisfactory resolution is a remedy that sufficiently addresses the loss or injury suffered by the complainant. That is what we regard as compensation. The Commission, or any regulatory authority for that matter, is not a forum or vehicle for making money or securing damages. That role can only be achieved through judicial process. Indeed, we consider real loss and injury in advocating for what is appropriate remedy, and we will penalise egregious conduct where necessary, but not as damages to consumers. Any punitive pecuniary measures are for industry intervention and to prevent abusive conduct, not for stronger or better financial positions for consumers, than they would have been if the violation did not occur. Some weeks ago, precisely in December last year, 2021, FCCPC called for an increased structural approach to tackle critical issues in Nigeria’s power sector. What informs the call? Our advice was informed by the fact that structural issues should include the implementation of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) Billing Cap Order, as the electricity sector topped FCCPC’s 2021 consumer-related complaints chart. Coupled with the foregoing is that we have tremendously succeeded in resolving complaints, and for the fact that there are many complaints on a daily basis, shows that a far more structural or industry-wide approach to resolving the problem of the industry must be adopted. We realised that we cannot resolve complaints as fast as the number of complaints that come in are enormous. Not only that, we have gone to Lagos, Benin, Port Harcourt to resolve hundreds of complaints and we are not talking about the number of complaints that come to us routinely and which we are resolving. In fact, we have resolved more electricity complaints last year more than we have done in any year but that the problem still remained at the time we made the call showed that there was something structural that needs to be fixed. One of the issues being faced in the electricity sector is unarguably estimated billing, which FCCPC has no control over, other than to seek remedy for consumers when applicable orders or regulations are violated by the distribution companies. Can you tell us about the key challenges FCCPC is faced with? The key challenges include how vast our nation is and the nature and scope of resources to fully protect consumers; both from a human capital standpoint and otherwise. In addition, the challenge of educating consumers to the point of sufficient sophistication and full understanding of their rights, considering literacy and access levels, especially farther away from urban areas. As long as the challenges persist, we will continue to sensitise the industry on the need to mitigate these challenges. We never relent in making it clear to industry that the responsibility of protecting their customers primarily rests on their shoulders, and also that protection of consumers cannot be supplementary to their business, rather it must be the core of their business. We have continued to insist that consumer education is a shared responsibility, especially because they have messages that are peculiar to their operations, and which they can apply in a manner consumers understand best, and have created the most effective channels to reach all in advertising. In fact, they must deploy both tools to educate consumers about their rights and what protection is available. Our environment is peculiar, so we must devise strategies that are best suited to the environment. In taking advantage of the vastness and vibrancy of the market, companies must take on the corollary responsibility to protect rights by meeting the consumers exactly where they are on different levels. We will continue to work with the government to secure the expanding and continuing support that we are gratefully currently receiving. As it were, the record shows that the Commission has never received the amount of attention and support this administration is providing since its inception. Not only is this of a significant assistance, it is also a message to industry that this administration considers consumers and their protection a priority. Finally, we will continue to explore innovation and technology to promote efficiency and scale up operations.