LAGOS – Honourable Rita Orji, lawmaker that represented Ajeromi/Ifelodun federal constituency at the eighth Assembly, has said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will win Lagos State in 2023 general elections so that the main opposition party will replicate the kind of exemplary leadership that Governor Seyi Makinde is known for in Oyo State. Orji, in an interview, stated that Lagos residents have been yearning for positive change and not the kind of deception that the All Progressives Congress (APC) promised the citizens without delivering any of them, rather Nigerians and Lagosians have been wallowing in poverty, hardship and frustration since the ruling party took over governance. “Lagosians have been yearning for PDP to take over power. The fact remains that we have not been losing elections in Lagos State as a party but we have issues of thugs, hijack of electoral materials, ballot boxes, etcetera by the ruling party and now that we have a hard-working governor in the South-West like Seyi Makinde, we will replicate what is happening in Oyo State in Lagos State. Uzor Kalu To Other Presidential  Aspirants: No Threat, Meet Me… 2023: We’re Already Preparing Osinbanjo For Presidency… “PDP will restore hope for Lagosians if given the opportunity and I am sure they will. What the people got from the APC is worse than a nightmare. Unfortunately, some people ganged up in 2015, used the media to remove PDP but today the APC has given Nigerians, poverty, hardship, bloodshed and hunger. Orji maintained that the people have seen the extent to which PDP can provide good leadership judging by the action of the only PDP governor in the South-West. “Go and see what is happening in Oyo, and that state is managed by a PDP governor. I call that state the Dubai of Africa and today some of those who promoted APC to take over power are begging Nigerians for forgiveness because they sold a bad product to the people. “Today our roads are bad, insecurity is all over the place and Nigerians are complaining. We are coming back in 2023 to restore peace,” she said.