LAGOS – Winner of the 7th edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, Ulfata Gelata of Ethiopia has praised the management of the title sponsor of the race, Access Bank and other sponsors and partners for a successful held event on Saturday, February 12. In a chat with our correspondent, the Ethiopian said he will be back for the 8th edition of the marathon because of the hospitality of the organizers, especially the title sponsors, Access Bank. “I was impressed with what I saw here last year and there has been an improvement with this year’s edition. Definitely, next year is going to be better than what we witnessed here this year,” he said. Yuletide Campaign: Access Bank Excites Customers With Prizes Access Bank Partners Access BankOn W Initiative Loan Scheme The Ethiopian, who won the race with a time of 2.11.54secs, said he will try to improve on his performance next year. “There is always room for improvement and come next year, I will try to better what I did this year. Last year, I was the first runner-up but this year I came first and by His grace, next year, I will want to improve on my performance,” he promised. Though the Ethiopian’s winning time of 2.11.54 seconds fell short of the course record set at the 2020 edition of the annual race, it is the second-fastest ever in the history of the globally-acclaimed 42km road race. It will be recalled that unlike previous years where the Kenyans were the pacesetters, the duo of David Barmasai and Emmanuel Naibei from the Eastern African country could only settle for second and third places respectively. And while Gelata went home with $30, 000 first prize money, Barmasai and Naibei went home with $20,000 and $15,000, respectively for their efforts at this year’s race. POLL In the women’s category, Ethiopia’s Dagne Siranesh Yirga was the first athlete to cross the finish line at two hours 33 minutes and 50 seconds. She was followed in second place by compatriot Alemenseh Guta and Kenya’s Naomi Maiyo in third place.This is the second time that an Ethpionan will win both the male and female categories of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon.