Ibadan – The Alaafin of Oyo, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, has said that Yoruba ancestors would make the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to become the nation’s president in 2023. Tinubu on Sunday afternoon visited the palace of Alaafin of Oyo in the historical city to intimate the first class monarch about his ambition. The consultation visit to the palace of the Alaafin is one of the many to traditional rulers in the South-West. Senate Tackles UniAbuja Over Non-Remittance Of N603m To… Buratai Denies Contesting 2023 Presidency The former Lagos State governor while speaking at the palace intimated the foremost monarch of his desire regarding 2023 presidential election and seek his blessings and endorsement. Addressing Alaafin, Tinubu said, “I came to seek your royal blessings, prayers and support to become the president of Nigeria. “I am happy to see you. You have done 51st anniversary on the throne and you are still looking fine. We thank you as you are leading us and caring for us. “I thank all of you, leaders from other parts of the state. I thank you, the Oyomesi and other traditional leaders. May you never betray our father. I also thank you, Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu. “Kabiyesi, you always tell the truth and you have always been my adviser. This is why I can’t take a step to become president without seeking your support. “We are still using the wisdom you taught us. We are still applying the same wisdom you gave us and that is what brought us to where we are today. “We can’t void it. We came together to form a government and that is what we are still doing today. POLL We have not regretted this government. “All I came for today is to seek your blessing, cooperation and prayers for me to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. The traditional ruler prayed for the realisation of Tinubu’s ambition, expressing confidence that the Yoruba ancestors would make him to become the nation’s president in 2023.