Ibada-Amukpe Community in Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State has inaugurated new executives to run the affairs of ther affairs for the next two years. Those who ascribed to their oath of office included, Mr. Felix Edafiadyeke, Chairman; Mr. Kelly Erute, Vice Chairman; Mr. Felix Akpereyi, Secretary; Mr. Victor Enakpare Asagba, Assistant Secretary; Mr. Samuel Onoghosa Speaker and Mr. Dickson Ayovonaduo Financial Secretary. Others were Mr. Sunday Umukoro, Treasurer; Mr. Peter Osioh, Public Relations Officer; Mr.  Frederick Ebeje, Financial Secretary; Mr. Felix Akpojaivwo, Land and Survey; Mr. Efe Umukoro, Second Land and Survey; Mr. Matthew Ovwigho, Third Land and Survey. JUST IN: Veteran Yoruba Actor, Tafa Oloyede Dies NECO Registrar Reveals How Borno Can Bridge Gaps In Unity… Those who were sworn in as youths executive officers included Mr. Osioh Oberhiri, Chairman; Mr. Wisdom Ovwigho, Vice Chairman; Mr. Ogaga Umukoro, Secretary; Mr. Obule Ozika, Assistant Secretary; Mr Nelson Eni, Speaker; Mr Venture Ofomala, Financial Secretary and Mr Shedrack Idamayi, Treasurer. Others were Mr. Sheriff Ikoje, Public Relations Officer, Mr. Akpovwene Okoligbe, Assistant Speaker; Mr. Efe Ebataise, Chief Whip, Mr. Precious Ubigho, Assistant Public Relations Officer, Mr. Rukevwe Ubidoye, Welfare Officer and Mr. Godwin Ukoroga, Organizing Secretary. The Immediate Past Community Chairman and one time councillor in Sapele local government Council, Hon. Paul Oyibo Umukoro who sworn in the new leaders into office, charged them to be diligent, honest and lovers of peace in their new offices, just as he reminded them to be mindful of the fact that the community will not hesitate to remove anyone found wanting before their tenure in office lapses. Umukoro who did the swearing in, in the presence of the community most senior man Pa Thomas Awaratakpor including other elders and women, assured the new executive officers that they the past leaders in the community would always be there for them with useful advice from time to time when the need arises. He charged them further that they must ensure that the peaceful coexistence of the community and their sister communities must be guaranteed at all time while advising the youth to shun violence and anything that is inimical to the over all development of Ibada-Amukpe Community. POLL The newly sworn in Community Chairman, Mr Felix Edafiadyeke and the new youth Chairman in their separate speeches after the swearing in event assured the Ibada-Amukpe Community people that they would not betray the confidence reposed on them at any given time as they pledged their loyalty and commitment to the growth of the entire community. They solicited for the cooperation of the past leaders as well as the elders for them to serve their people better while appealing to the youths never to engage themselves in any act that will not move their community forward but always embrace peace and meaningful ventures that would advance their rapid growth. Pa Thomas Awaratakpor who witnessed the epoch making event, prayed to the new officers to be successful in their tenure in office by joining government to attract new things into the community.