Roman Abramovich is attempting to broker peace between Russia and Ukraine, the Chelsea owner’s spokesperson has said. The Russian-Israeli billionaire handed “stewardship and care” of Chelsea to the club foundation’s trustees on Saturday, in a move aimed to protect the Stamford Bridge club. But now the 55-year-old is trying to help bring an end to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Hungary, Romania Issuing Access Visas To Nigerians Fleeing… Nigerian Embassies Receive 256 Stranded Compatriots From Ukraine “I can confirm that Roman Abramovich was contacted by the Ukrainian side for support in achieving a peaceful resolution and that he has been trying to help ever since,” Abramovich’s spokesperson told the PA news agency. “Considering what is at stake, we would ask for your understanding as to why we have not commented on neither the situation as such nor his involvement. Thank you.” Ukrainian film director and producer Alexander Rodnyansky also confirmed Abramovich’s involvement, insisting the Chelsea owner was the only person to respond to calls for help. Rodnyansky has claimed that representatives from Ukraine’s government have expressed gratitude for Abramovich’s attempts at help. “I can confirm that the Ukrainian side have been trying to find someone in Russia willing to help them in finding a peaceful resolution,” said Rodnyansky. POLL “They are connected to Roman Abramovich through the Jewish community and reached out to him for help. “Roman Abramovich has been trying to mobilize support for a peaceful resolution ever since. Although Roman Abramovich’s influence is limited, he is the only one who responded and taken it upon himself to try. “If this will have an impact or not, I don’t know, but I am in contact with Zelensky’s staff myself, and know that they are grateful for his genuine efforts.” Abramovich stepped back from day-to-day running of Chelsea on Saturday night. He will retain ownership of Chelsea but has handed all decision making to the west London club’s charitable foundation trustees. However, Chelsea Foundation trustees have not yet agreed to take over “custody and care” of the club as requested by owner Abramovich. We’re In Touch With Our Medical Students In Ukraine… Russian-Ukrainian Crisis: Putin Ready For Negotiation With… (SOURCE: Sky Sports)