BENIN – The G-14 Advocacy Group has called for urgent intervention of the Federal Government to urgently address the crisis in the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA) as regards the yet-to-be inaugurated, members. The political group made the call on Saturday after the State meeting of the body in Benin. Edo North Coordinator of the group, Mr. Sunny Ifijen who addressed the press after the meeting, sort the attention of the Attorney General of the Federal (AGF) and the Nigeria Judiciary Council (NJC) to look at the issues surrounding the delay in the dispensation of justice. Cancer Day: Group Identifies Awareness, Knowledge As Tools To… Group Wants FG, EFCC To Stop Uzodimma From Taking More Loans He noted that the matter which has been in the law court for over two years has denied no fewer than 1.6 million people of representation. He described the present EDHA as constituted as illegal and said every action and decision taken so far by the Assembly would be challenged in due course. “It bothers us that for almost three years, the Government of Edo as led by Mr Godwin Obaseki has not seen anything wrong with the State legislature as constituted. “Not only that, it is totally wrong for 10 persons to be sitting and making laws for the State in an Assembly of 24 members while the other 14 constituencies have been denied of representation. “This is not only an affront of the law of the land but a calculated attempt to derail democracy that we have seemingly enjoyed since 1999. POLL “Our pain is the fact that the matter, none inauguration of the other 14 lawmaker elects which have been before the State High Court have been deliberately delayed by the government to serve their purpose. “It is for this reason that we are calling on the federal government, through the AGF and NJC to look into the matter with a view of ensuring quick dispensation of justice on it,” he stated. Leaders of the group at the meeting include; Mr. Harrison Ogbofa, State Coordinator, Mr. Collins Amadin, Edo South coordinator and Okoduwa Solomon, Edo central Also in attendance were Comrade Freeman Aghedo, Hon. Omeiza Ogumah, Comrade Collins Edo south coordinator, Hon.Solomon Otoikila, among others. The crisis in the EDHA began when only 12 out of 24 lawmakers-elect were inaugurated under controversial circumstances in the late hours of June 17, 2019, following a proclamation by the governor. Group Laments High Rate Of Brutality Against  Journalists,… GSM Shutdown: Group Slams N106m Suit Against Zamfara Governor,… Those affected were Vincent Uwadiae, Ovia North-East II; Ugiagbe Dumez, Ovia North-East I; Washington Osifo, Uhunmwode; Victor Edoror, Esan Central; Kingsley Ugabi, Etsako East and Michael Ohio-Ezomo, Owan West. Others are Sunday Aghedo, Ovia South-West; Chris Okaeben, Oredo West; Crosby Eribo, Egor; Aliyu Oshiomhole, Etsako West II; Oshomah Ahmed, Etsako Central, and Ganiyu Audu, Etsako West I.