Real Madrid have secured first refusal on coveted Borussia Dortmund striker Erling Haaland in a meeting with his representatives in Monaco, according to a report. Haaland is the most wanted player on the planet at present, with essentially all of Europe’s top clubs expected to make a transfer approach for him this summer before his bargain €75m release clause expires. Although he has struggled with niggling injuries this season, the 21-year-old has an obscene goalscoring record for Dortmund – netting 80 times in just 79 appearances to date, including 23 in total this term. Stop Chasing Shadows, Nnamdi Kanu Is Not Your Problem, Rita… FG Remains Committed To Road Infrastructure Development –… Real Madrid are inevitably among the gaggle of clubs vying to sign Haaland at the end of the season, and according to Catalan outlet Sport, the Spanish giants held a meeting with the player’s father Alf-Inge and Mino Raiola’s right-hand man Rafael Pimenta in Monaco at the end of January, in the super-agent’s health-enforced absence. In that meeting, Real representatives found an ‘agreement’ to ‘block’ negotiations with any other interested parties, handing them a significant advantage over domestic rivals Barcelona and Manchester City, Manchester United and Chelsea in the Premier League. It has previously been reported that Real Madrid want to bring in the Norway international and Paris Saint-Germain superstar Kylian Mbappe in the same summer, with the latter widely expected to arrive at the Bernabeu in a free transfer. In a twist in the story, it was revealed last week by Dortmund-based media that the Madrid club had requested that Haaland remain at Signal Iduna Park for a further year – likely because they could not finance deals for both forwards in the same window. However, Sport claim that the agreement in the principality means that if Haaland decides to move on from Dortmund this summer, Real would be ‘obliged’ to pay up and sign him. POLL Los Blancos will also need to strike a deal with BVB, although they could attempt to use current frontman Luka Jovic as a makeweight. The Serbian has previously impressed in the Bundesliga with Eintracht Frankfurt. It was revealed in January that the £64m release clause needs to be paid in full to be triggered, otherwise the Bundesliga side would command a larger fee that could be paid off in instalments.