YENAGOA – A fresh oil spill has been reported at the Oil Mining Lease (OML) 59 operated by a multinational oil Producing Limited around the Angofield near Tamazu settlements in Koluama Clan in the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. It was gathered that the devastating spill occurred from the indigenous oil firm’s wellhead 1 on January 30 and “was spewing crude oil in gaseous form from an elbow of a pipeline linked directly to the Ango wellhead 1.” Crude oil and gas leaked in various quantities from the affected facility till February 2 when a team from Conoil mobilised to stop the spill, sources said. Governor Diri Promoting Culture, Unity In Bayelsa – Timi… Bayelsa Health Insurance Scheme Handles 3,411 Surgical… Before the team arrived at the spill site, crude oil had flowed into the marine environment of the fishing settlements in the area on the fringes of the Atlantic Ocean. The chairman of the Koluama clan oil and gas committee, Jonathan Amabebe, and the Tamazu community development committee (CDC) chairman, Ebibotei Kerimama, confirmed the catastrophe and stated that the spill was being spread by the tidal ebb of the river. They said that residents were not comfortable with the pollution caused by the spill incident because of its impact on their health and livelihood. Amabebe said, “A similar incident occurred last December (2021), even then (the company) did nothing positive concerning that by way of reaction. This one has happened again and it really spread in the environment but they have used dispersants, chemicals to dissolve or sink the crude oil in the water. “However, they couldn’t succeed in silencing the environment as the vegetation at the banks of the river told their story of pollution. There were visible crude oil and soiled oily leaves.” POLL He called for the conduct of medical check-ups for the community people who had been inhaling the stench of spilled crude and gas, stressing that “I know our people are in danger, as far as their health is concerned.” Kerimama while corroborating the committee chairman said the people were inhaling the pungent smell of crude oil and the company had not deemed it necessary to come to their aid. The CDC chairman said: “But we are affected because we go about our means of livelihood fishing in this same river. The wellheads are named after the oilfield, Ango 1, Ango 2, Ango 3, Ango 4 and Ango 5. “So for now there is no fish in the environment. Even if we manage to catch a few for our consumption we perceive the smell of petroleum in the fish like gas in the air. Yet, the company has not shown concern about our plight; how their operation is affecting us.”