IKECHI NZEAKO The Nigerian business environment is evolving and it is getting more complex and competitive. Many operators say it is getting more difficult to survive in the environment. Mr. Segun Kuti-George, the Chief Executive Officer of Goshen Exquisite Marble, while speaking on how businesses, especially Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) fared in the country, said last year was tough for the country and since MSMEs operate within the economy, the year was also a tough one for them. Govt Should Support Agribusiness Owners In Ngeria – Adeyinka Africa Guarantee Fund Gets $2.5m To SMEs In W/Africa He said although the country got out recession marginally in 2020, businesses could not meet their targets and some had to lay off some of their workers; some had to change the type of business they do, while others which could not cope closed shop, adding that the challenges that SMEs face in the country are still there. He stated that there was a slight improvement in market awareness of the need to buy and consume locally made goods and services. He, however, said that the harsh economy; the fact that people have little disposable income and inflation did not help matters. According to him, “This did not help the purchasing power of the people. Many people are willing to buy and consume made in Nigeria products and services, they do not have the purchasing power to do so. It is a double tragedy for the country.“ Kuti-George, who is also the erstwhile chairman of the Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Association Of Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI), said the problem of inadequate infrastructure is still there and largely unresolved; adding that the supply of power is still epileptic. POLL “For instance, we have been constructing the Lagos Ibadan Road for 20 years and it is not yet finished. Rail has taken off but it is passenger-based; goods are not being moved by rail,” he posited. According to him, the problem of funding persists and bank loans are still being channeled to big businesses at the detriment of small operators. He argued that entrepreneurs still have issues with technology; and equipment is still being imported and “we import obsolete equipment, which sometimes makes Nigerian products uncompetitive when compared to foreign products.” Kuti-George stated that the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), has taken off and the country is not ready and “other countries are taking advantage of us and we are not taking advantage of the agreement.” He said that the level of insecurity has adversely affected businesses in the country; adding that people cannot move about, as they want and doing requires moving as the business demands. He said the situation has reduced the volume of transactions and many companies performed below their projections for 2021. We Want To Become Best Cosmetic In Nigeria – Kukoyi, Boltol… How I Want To Train 100 Youths In Furniture Designing – Babasola What should the government do in 2022? He stated that the government should focus attention on infrastructure; and it should improve power supply, build more roads, and improve the rail system and others. “The government can say that it has provided development funds but it is a far cry from what is needed. “They need to put their money where their mouth is; over 60 percent of our GDP is generated by SMEs and over 70 percent of employment is generated by SMEs and the government should pump more money into the sector. It should come up with innovative ways to fund SMEs. We should take more risks with SMEs.” What should be done to ensure that these funds get to actual business operators and not politicians and party members? He said the country has development banks, the Bank of Industry, Development Bank of Nigeria, the Agri-Business/Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme of the Central Bank of Nigeria through NIRSAL Microfinance Bank (NMFB) and others, arguing that these are not sufficient to meet the needs of the sector. He asserted the Bank of Industry loans are not accessible to small operators because they cannot meet the requirements of the bank. “The ones that are accessible are not well funded and quite a number of has accessed it but they are being pressured to repay so that others can also get the loan. But the difficult business environment led many to run into murky waters and they are unable to repay and that has become a challenge. “ I am not in support of anyone or business taking a loan and not repaying. But the effects of Covid-19 are still much around other countries are coming out with schemes to alleviate problems. They still know that the problems are still there and they are enough to make one not be able to fulfill one’s financial obligations like repaying a loan. “In our own case, we are saying that they must pay immediately. We should be a little more patient with SMEs that take loans; we should give them more time to repay”. He averred that the government should not relax in funding MSMEs; “it should pump in more money into the sector. The money you pump into SMEs is still within the economy; it only means that the results have not come yet. They should be patient and pump in money into the sector. The fact that we had the Covid-19 experience should make the government pump more money into SMEs and not expect anything in return,” he argued. He continued: ”I am not unaware of the Covid-19 funds for small businesses but how many people access it? If we want to ensure that the funds get to the people that actually need them, it is very important that key members of Business Management Organizations be involved in these things because they know one another. They understand the environment; they know where the shoe pinches and know what to do to help small businesses thrive. It is not enough to study banking and finance to understand the needs of businesses in the country. There is a need to understand the people who need to borrow and how it can be effectively disbursed.” He added: “I give kudos to Nigerian SMEs; they are struggling to survive in a harsh environment; come rain and sunshine, you still see many of them standing despite the odds.” To survive in the difficult environment, he urged small businesses to engage in critical thinking in order to innovate and deliver better service to their clients, adding, “Every entrepreneur should think critically about what they are doing with their business and seek better ways to do it. They should let innovation come out of critical thinking. They should innovate more and do things differently. They should introduce new things to make the business more effective in terms of service delivery. They should make their services and products more attractive and competitive because people want to get value for their money. Money is getting scarcer in the country. “Businesses should collaborate with one another; if you are producing 1000 units of something, and you have a demand of 5000 units, you should not keep your customers waiting. You should collaborate with other people in the industry to service your customers and can increase your production capacity gradually. You should adopt better marketing strategies; make use of online marketing strategies; make better use of social media.”