Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain and former Delta State Governorship aspirant, on Friday said that in a sane country, the management staff of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) involved in the importation of adulterated fuel would have been fired long ago. While addressing Energy correspondents in Lagos, Onuesoke who wondered which country or buyer on earth will buy this type of product without a strict requirement for presentation of standards test reports both at the port of loading and port of discharge, said the importation of the adulterated fuel is enough reason for a complete sack and criminal prosecution of the NNPC management involved in the importation of the products. He argued that allowing NNPC management staff involved in the importation of the rotten fuel to get away with the impudently committed felony will be rape on Nigerians’ collective integrity as a nation and a shame to the current administration. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine “If the NNPC Management knows what they supposed to be doing, a standardized method should have been placed to confirm that any products coming to the country are within the set-up ranges. If that has been the case, these imported dirty products should have been confirmed to meet the standard before releasing them to the public. “Secondly, it is this same lack of planning by NNPC that resulted in having all our four refineries gone comatose. They had spent a considerable amount of billion naira for maintenance and turnaround of our refineries without producing one drop of refined oil. “Lastly, if a professional has been in charge instead of this quota system and political appointees with little knowledge of what they ought to be doing, these and other problems confronting NNPC would not have existed,” Onuesoke explained. The PDP chieftain stated that it is embarrassing that more than 65 years after becoming an oil-producing country, Nigeria, Africa’s largest petroleum producer is importing “refined” petroleum products from Belgium that does not produce oil and is an importer of crude oil. “This is the reason they keep subsidising when they introduce too many middlemen into the purchasing process. Belgium imported from somewhere and Nigeria imported from the importer. Chronically corrupt system. POLL “I still think the Belgium story is just a cover-up. There are four refineries in Belgium. They never mentioned which one supplied the adulterated fuel. There are inspection services companies that inspected the fuel, none has been fingered in the deal. Pure lies so far,” he argued.