LAGOS –The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Lagos (UNILAG) chapter, has announced plans to hold a sensitisation meeting on Tuesday between the hours of 11 in the morning and 2 in the afternoon.To ensure participation by members, the union has declared that within the period of the sensitisation meeting, there shall be no lecture, statutory meetings including supervision and seminars. This is as the Lagos zone of the union has scheduled a briefing on the matter for between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. on the same campus to address the public on the failure of the government to implement the contents of the Memorandum of Action (MoA) entered with the union in 2020 which led to the suspension of the then nine-month-long industrial action. According to ASUU-UNILAG, the meeting aims to sensitise the university community, the media and members of the public on the Nigerian government’s failure to address its grievances. Convention: APC Governors In Crucial Meeting FG Begging For Strike – ASUU, Nsukka Zone Dr. Dele Ashiru, the university’s branch chairman, in a statement, described as misinformation the news that the university was observing the lecture-free day on Monday. The statement read: “At the last NEC meeting of our union, all branches were directed to observe a day of mobilisation and sensitisation of members, students and the general public to the impending strike action over government insensitive and unwillingness to implement the renegotiated 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement which will usher in a new and robust salary structure for our members. “As you are already aware, tomorrow, 8th February 2022, has been declared as UNILAG’s day of mobilisation and sensitisation in compliance with the directive of NEC. “Given the above, there shall be no lectures, meetings, seminars, workshops, etc, during the period of the mobilisation and sensitisation congress between 11a.m and 2 p.m. Members are therefore enjoined to attend the congress en masse as a show of support and solidarity for the new salary and welfare structure.”