…Urges INEC to Undertake Audit of BVAS Technology ABUJA – An election monitoring group, Yiaga Africa has re-echoed the need for President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2021 into law, insisting it will go a long way to forestall some of the ugly experiences in the just concluded Federal Capital Territory FCT Council Elections. The group which deployed observers to the field on Saturday, to monitor the polls, noted inconsistencies in the conduct of the polls, especially the deployment of the BVAS by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, including cases of vote buying, late commencement of polls and disenfranchisement on the part of some electorates among others. Omosehin Promises Healthcare, Empowerment For Underprivileged In… Valentine’s Day: Love Is God’s Commandment –… It therefore urged INEC to urgently undertake an audit of the BVAS and ensure all the technological glitches with the devices are resolved, ahead of Ekiti and Osun 2022 off-cycle gubernatorial elections to prevent possible disenfranchisement of voters. This it noted will also inspire public confidence in electoral technologies being deployed INEC for elections. “Yiaga Africa calls on the President to, without further delay, give assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2022. “To avert possible voter disenfranchisement in subsequent elections INEC should synchronize all voter registration information with the newly created polling units on its online and offline databases. “Timely upload of polling unit results on the INEC online portal will boost public trust and confidence in election results declared by INEC. Yiaga Africa calls on INEC to continue to maintain the highest level of transparency in the results collation process by ensuring polling units results are uploaded in timeously”. POLL Addressing a press conference on Monday, Samson Itodo, Executive Director of the group cautioned political parties and contestants to show maturity and respect laid down rules and guidelines for the conduct of elections. Commenting on the functionality of the INEC Election Results Viewing Portal: Yiaga Africa noted that the first polling unit result was uploaded at 3:45 pm (1:30 mins after the close of voting) on election day, signaling some delays in uploading results on the platform. It also observed that in some LGAs, the Returning officers declared final results while the results were being uploaded on the platform. “At 2:30 pm on Sunday, Feb 13, 2022, Chairmanship results from only 1,757 of 2,229 polling units were uploaded on the portal. Whereas, Councilorship results from 2,065 polling units out of 2,229 polling units were uploaded on the platform. Yiaga Africa will issue a comprehensive report on the result portal in our subsequent report,”the CSO noted with dismay.