IBADAN – Founder of One Love Family,  Satguru Maharaj Ji, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to make the welfare of Nigerians a top priority, thereby ensuring the safety of lives and properties of Nigerians. In a lecture held at Obisesan Hall, Dugbe, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, the Living Perfect Master, said must adhere to federal character policy in reducing agitations and lop-sided political appointment. Maharaj-Ji urged Yoruba leaders to visit President Buhari for dialogue, and in the area of lopsided political appointments in the South stressing that dialogue; “not threat, will push the country in the right directions”. AFCON: Comments About Buhari’s Phone Call As Bad Luck Idiotic… 2023: Be Interested In Who Succeeds You, Ohaneze Tells Buhari Talking about the politics of 2023, Maharaj Ji declared that “We need seasoned leaders who will love and care for us for what and who we are. Leaders who see and value the lives of Nigerians as children of the same father, so as to provide adequate security, shelter and job opportunities for all on the basis of merit.” While speaking on security,  Maharaj Ji advised the Federal Government as a matter of urgency see to the implementation of one family, two-children policy to control the birth rate in the North as population explosion in the North East is adding to the security challenges being experienced in the region. Maharaj Ji also advocated for better welfare packages and treatment for security agencies especially the Police, saying some of them behave the way they do because of the situation they found themselves. While speaking on Police reform, Maharaj Ji posited that the Police have no business in meddling in land matters stressing that only the courts and the Kings of the land can adjudicate on land matters. “Again, Police officers and men are to mandatorily put on name tags with their recruitment numbers above the breast pockets of their uniforms. Any Policeman found on any duty post without his uniform should be arrested and charged to court,” Maharaj Ji explained. POLL The living Perfect Master advised President Buhari to equally set up a Marketing Board, an agency to be constituted to buy agricultural produce direct from local farmers for proper storage and sale to the public to avoid the ugly trend where foreigners criss-cross Nigeria’s hinterlands to buy food/cash crops from local farmers.