LAGOS – The Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo SAN has urged the newly appointed High Court Judges from the State Ministry of Justice to be efficient in the discharge of their duties and be good ambassadors of the Ministry of Justice. The Attorney-General stated this during a reception in honour of the 5 newly appointed judges held on Tuesday at the Ministry’s Conference room. He gave this administration while noting that the 5 newly appointed judges are one of the best hands in the Ministry stating that their elevation is a testament to the caliber of State counsel in the employ of the State. Lagos Handled 10,007 Cases Of Domestic, Sexual Violence In Two… Justice Oyewole Harps On Need To Demonstrate Recognition,… The Commissioner stated that out of the over 300 people that wrote the exams and were interviewed, among which were magistrates and private legal practitioners, a State counsel from the Ministry of Justice scored highest overall, stating that their appointments were based on merit and not an act of favouritism. He further stated that this shows the passion that the administration of Mr Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has towards the development of lawyers in the employ of the State while reiterating that the Lagos State Ministry of Justice is the largest law firm in Africa. Onigbanjo, therefore, charged the High Court Judges to dispense justice according to the dictates of the law and in good conscience stating that they are representative of God on earth. “If anybody can say apart from clergymen, you are also a true representative of God on earth because you hold the power of life and death over people. It’s not only in a criminal trial when you sentence someone to death by hanging but by mere decisions which could mean life and death to the person” He however prayed for wisdom, knowledge and understanding for the judges as they carry out their responsibilities while praying further that as they have distinguished themselves in the Ministry of Justice, God will guide them through to write their name in gold in the State Judiciary. POLL In her closing remarks, the Solicitor-General and Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Justice, Ms. Titilayo Shitta-Bey congratulated the newly appointed judges on their elevation to the bench urging them to uphold the tenets of justice while thanking them for honouring the Ministry’s invitation. She went further to state that their elevation to the bench will serve as motivation to State counsel aspire to go to the bench noting that it comes with hard work and dedication. She encouraged them to carry on with perseverance and diligence to duty. The High court judges expressed their gratitude for the reception promising to uphold the tenet of justice to the best of their ability and that they will continue to be good ambassadors of the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. In attendance were Hon.Justice Adenrera Olayinka Adeyemi, Hon.Justice Oluwatoyin Atinuke Odusanya,Hon.Justice Akinkunmi Olusegun Idowu ,Hon.Justice Mujibat Iyabode Oshodi,Hon Justice Muyibat Mosunmola Balogun, family members and well-wishers.