***Bust IPOB Syndicate, Kill One, Arrest 3 The troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army Enugu on Wednesday raided and dislodged the criminal heavens of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed wing, Eastern Security Network (ESN) at Orsu Local Government of Imo State. The troops also moved into communities of Azia Orsumoghu, Lilu forest Mbosi and Uli in Ihiaka in Anambra State and also dislodged the operations of the IPOB and ESN. Childhood Protection: Yobe Delegation Meets Buni Police Restrict Movement In Imo Ahead Of Ngor-Okpala… In a statement issued on Thursday by the Director Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu said that during the clearance operations, troops overpowered and routed the dissidents, who staged an ambush against the gallant troops. He said that the troops then proceeded to clear Lilu Forest, where they were met with resistance from the outlawed group. According to him, the criminals were again overrun by the troops who effectively cleared Lilu Forest and the adjoining areas earlier occupied by the dissidents. While conducting the operations, he said that the unrelenting troops encountered and cleared four ambush sites along roads Orsumoghu-Mbosi – Ihiala-Uli, dislodging the irredentists from their criminal havens. He said that the gallant troops neutralized one of the criminals, arrested three suspects and recovered one Pump Action Shotgun, two live Cartridges, two mobile phones, One black coloured Toyota Hilux vehicle, a polythene bag containing substances suspected to be Cannabis and the sum of #1, 920. POLL The Army Spokesman said that in a separate operation conducted today 24 February 2022, troops of 82 Division Nigerian Army in collaboration with the Nigerian Police have busted an IPOB/ESN syndicate that disrupted the just concluded Local Government Council elections at some polling stations in Nkanu West of Enugu State. Nwachukwu said that during the intelligence-driven operation, carried out around Centenary Estate Obeagu Uno, troops uncovered 7 AK-47 rifles, 2 Pump Action rifles, 10 rifle Magazines, 8 live cartridges, 74 live rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition, one hand grenade, a tipper truck containing 3 corpses among other items. He said that the items have been handed over to Enugu State Police Command for further action. The Nigerian Army reassures residents of South-East Nigeria of their commitment to restoring lasting peace in the region.  I Was Overwhelmed By Spirit, Randy Pastor Who Raped Teenager… Alleged Forgery: Fani-Kayode Was Never Our Patient –Kubwa… 