Over six years after Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation, said that the Federal Government would establish an aerospace uni­versity for Nigeria in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, the government is yet to deliver on its promise. This is despite the N1 billion takeoff grant President Muham­madu Buhari approved for the project in the second quarter of 2021. Also, aviation analysts have expressed disappointment in the performance of the minister who had in the last quarter of 2015 unveiled six roadmaps for the sector, saying that he was yet to achieve any of the roadmaps almost seven years later. Tinubu Returns After UK Trip Presidency Reacts To Financial Times Criticism Of Buhari Information gathered by Daily Independent indicated that as at late 2021, the Nation­al Universities Commission (NUC) had given the govern­ment the requirements for the establishment of the aviation university, which the govern­ment said would be named ‘The African University of Aerospace and Aviation, but the ministry was yet to develop a concept note to be forwarded to NUC for consid­eration. The other projects on the roadmap of the minister included designation of air­ports as free trade/economic processing zones, airports concession, establishments of a national carrier, avia­tion leasing company, main­tenance, repair and overhaul (MRO), development of airport cities (aerotropolis) and development of cargo/ agro-allied airport terminals. Sirika had told journalists in July 2021 that President Bu­hari had approved a takeoff grant of N1 billion for the es­tablishment of the aerospace university to be located in Abuja. He did say that the estab­lishment of the university would enable the country to “manufacture” aircraft components and eventually “produce” aircraft, adding that it would be dedicated to research and development in civil aviation and aerospace technology. The minister had ex­plained that the decision to establish the specialised uni­versity was informed by the need to fill some identified gaps in the growth and devel­opment of the aviation sector. POLL He said: “We are deficient in research and development in civil aviation and aero­space technology, and that has caused a lot of underde­velopment of the sector and made us to be backward. An example is the development of drones or unmanned vehi­cles that are now taking over the space delivering cargo, delivering mails, delivering things and very soon deliver­ing human beings. “This is a new frontier in civil aviation that needs to be developed. We started with Brazil in the area of civil avia­tion, today Brazil is producing aircraft, and we aren’t produc­ing a pin. So, I think we should be able to have this university that is dedicated to aerospace and aviation, in addition, also the production of high-level manpower.” Speaking on the issue, Grp. Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), avi­ation analyst, expressed dis­appointment with the perfor­mance of the minister so far. Ojikutu explained that apart from the failure of the government to lay strong foundation for the estab­lishment of the aerospace university, the government also failed to make Nigeria a strong force in regional, con­tinental and global aviation sector. “There were promises of national carrier, MRO, leas­ing company and several others, but none of these has evolved,” he added. Senegal Defeat Egypt, Win Africa Cup Of Nations Buhari, Ethiopian PM Ahmed Meet Over Rising Spate Of Coups In… He emphasised that the federal and state governments share in any of the aforemen­tioned projects was not more than 10 percent and won­dered why the government remained “visible partner” in what should involve other interests like foreign techni­cal partners and investors, credible Nigerian investors and the Nigerian public. The Chief Executive Offi­cer (CEO) of Centurion Avia­tion Services Limited lament­ed that the plan to establish an MRO for Nigeria for instance had been on since the 1980s, but over 40 years later, the project is yet to see the light of day. According to Ojikutu, rather for the government to spend billions of naira in establishing an aerospace university, the government could upgrade the Nigerian College of Aviation Technol­ogy (NCAT), Zaria, to a degree awarding institution, stress­ing that the government could not sufficiently fund the over 36 federal universities it has at the moment. He added: “The terminal buildings we borrowed mon­ey from the Chinese to build are either not fully complet­ed and those completed have added other cost to correct the buildings themselves. The one in Abuja is obscuring the control tower; a new tower is needed; the one in Lagos made no provisions for air­craft parking areas; some op­erators buildings may have to give way and compensations would have to be paid. “More than 60 percent of our airports have no night landing facilities especially runway landing lights; the career progressions of the staff and succession plan­ning in most of the agen­cies have been mismanaged or distorted such that in the past 10 years, none of the staff that had worked for 20/25 years rose to become a director. “Above all, the actual val­ue of the earnings from each agency is not known, even as some are going for conces­sions or commercialisation. But, for the repairs on Abuja airport runway, the work at the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and the Nige­rian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) coming fresh like the Dr. Harold Demuren’s era, it is difficult for me to rate the ministry, but the responsible operating and regulating agencies.” Besides, Capt. Ibrahim Mshelia, CEO, West Link Airlines, insisted that an aero­nautical university starting as a fresh entity in Nigeria was wasteful and unnecessary. Mshelia explained that the country already had institu­tions offering some courses in aviation, which the gov­ernment could partner with to produce the required cer­tificates to graduates. He said that like the nation­al carrier project, nothing is heard of the aerospace uni­versity plan by the govern­ment apart from promises. “Today, if nothing has been heard about it, it’s not strang… where is national carrier? But, whether it was necessary, I don’t believe we need to build a university ded­icated to aviation. NCAT and other universities could fill in the gaps with little funding rather than spend from the scratch,” he said. Mshelia was, however, reluctant to rate the perfor­mance of the minister in the past six years, but com­mended President Buhari for showing enthusiasm about aviation industry and for ap­pointing aviation profession­als to head the sector for over half a decade. The appointment of avia­tion professional as a minister in the sector, he maintained was supposed to ensure conti­nuity and solid uninterrupted development, adding that im­mediately Sirika assumed of­fice, he showed energy to excel and deliver the government’s mandates for the sector. “We are still waiting and hopeful that we shall begin to see the results. He has prom­ised us a national carrier on or before April 2022. We are less than two months to April. This will probably usher in the deliverables he promised. Perhaps it’s therefore too ear­ly to rate this minister,” he added.