The heartrending story of how a Catholic priest callously ambushed and harassed one of Nigeria’s fore­most writers and internationally acclaimed public intellectual, Ngozi Chim­amanda Adichie and her family at the burial mass of the late Mrs Grace Ifeoma Adichie held at the St. Paul’s Catholic Church in Abba, Njikoka LGA of Anambra State, is a serious indictment of the Church establish­ment and its supposed ecclesiastic stance in the service of God as a place of succor as Jesus himself had wished: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and heavy laden, and I will give you rest” Matt 11:28-30). Unfortunately, and in particular, these days in Nigeria, as the Chimamanda family just encountered, the church might really not the place to go whenever you are in grief anymore because the officiating priests now see grievous families’ misery as an oppor­tunity to fleece them just like any 419 scam outfit would: They will compound your mis­eries by ambushing and expecting a hefty ransom and immediate payment before you’re released. By her tearfully narration (Sunday Vanguard 20/02/22) of how she was ambushed, roughly criticised and insulted by the officiating priest at her mother’s fu­neral for not emptying her bank accounts for him which then led her to lament that: “I cannot help but think of one of the be­atitudes, ‘Blessed are those who mourn for they shall be comforted” and concluding by saying “What a shame and what a failure of an institution that was established to bring peace and joy to humanity here on earth and eternal bliss in the world beyond?” Nothing can be more reprehensible. The sad story of the Chimamanda family is just the tip of the iceberg. There are more bizarre stories of church abuses occurring daily across the country. It is just that many congregations do not have the energy to over­come the shame of discussing their miseries in the hands of those priests who run their churches as cash cows, milking them unto death, especially in rural parishes. They demand for extravagant worldly items like SUVs and luxurious social gadgets. These are serious doctrinal collapses that seriously question the relevance of the current reli­gious order. The Malady Of  APC’s Foreboding Convention And Leadership Miasma… Aregbesola’s Anti-Omoluabi Ethos What of the widespread cases of child sex abuse currently ravaging the Catholic establishment that were institutionally swept under the rugs for centuries? We are all witnesses to the pervasive material and psychological abuses and exploitations of fol­lowers by mostly the so-called “prosperity” and perverted “miracle hawking” “men of God” who sinfully revel in scandalous ma­terial affluence that would easily make Lu­cifer jealous. So, in many respects, religious establishments across various faiths and doctrines have compounded the problems of materialism which they were supposed to solve. Could that be the much-awaited signs of the end time? I have personally experienced the kind of horrible encounter of the Chimaman­das. When my mother died a few years ago we decided that because she was an ardent catholic faithful, to bury her using our home­town church in Opoji, Esan Central LGA, Edo State. There were no debates over that decision because we were raised and edu­cated as Catholics; baptized, confirmed and married all within the catholic doctrine. I started getting the signs of what could come when I went with my younger brother, Hon Patrick Ikhariale, a member of the Nation­al Assembly then, to discuss the burial ar­rangements with the resident priest. To be fair, he was initially receptive and apparently sympathetic, but I started getting worried when he said something like with big chil­dren like you, “Mama’s burial should be a blessing to the church.” “A blessing to the church?” I wondered. The priest must have noticed my mood change. He turned to me and said: “Prof, your junior brother, the Honorable should understand what I mean. You are from Amer­ica; we have luckily already seen a lot of his Naira, but we now want your dollars too. Don’t tell us you will not give us dollars.” I chuckled in embarrassment that a priest before whom we’re discussing our mother’s burial could be so materialistic and auda­cious in his demands. As if that were not enough, he took us round the uncompleted priest residence building that was under con­struction and told us the nature and quality of the furnishing he would want us to help provide the church. My brother, Honourable Ikhariale, sensing that I was going to react to the absurdity of what the priest was saying quickly gave me a sharp wink and I let go. He ended the rant by lamenting that “we are going to miss Mama because she was very helpful to the church.” I perfectly understood why the priest said he was going to miss Mama. The moment they knew that my brother was in the House of Representatives coupled with the fact that I was in America supposedly with plenty of dollars, my mother, an illiterate though extremely smart but who forever regretted the failure of her uncles to give her west­ern education upon the premature death of her father, was made the President of the Christian Women Organisation (CWO) of the local church! Suddenly, it was one demand after an­other: “We need money to build a modern church, the church needs a vehicle, it needs this and needs that.” My aged mother who no longer worked for money was made to be funding these irresponsible demands; she was unrelentingly under pressure to call us to “help” her to fund the church. I recalled my brother bought a vehicle for a priest and underwrote several other expenses. I need not mention how many times my mother sent me SOSs for levies and contribution on behalf of the same church and, to make her happy, I obliged her without questions. It was easy to see that the church was using her to exploit us. POLL Matters came to a head when during the funeral mass, after the “special offering” after which several people, friends and well-wishers of our family who came from all over the world had given generously, one of the several “officiating priests” picked up the microphone and specifically called me out, being the eldest child, to make a “special commitment” as to what I would like to fund from a list of projects in honour of my late mother. I reminded him that we have already made commitments which would be fulfilled unfailingly. Instead, he insisted that I must make a commitment right there. Angered, I sternly told him that he should not think that he can use our mourning occasion to ambush me and that I am not one of those who could be cajoled into making outland­ish aggrandizing donations and that what he was doing appeared to me, legally speaking, to be trying to obtain money by false pretens­es, i.e., 419! The Church was still and quiet as you could hear a needle drop. It was at that stage, my brother sprang up to politically explain to the priest that, as Prof ’s younger brother, I know that he meant every word he just spoke but that he personally wants to assure him that his demands would be met. Consequently, ad­ditional amount of Naira was realized on the spot, but I was not impressed. The dif­ference between myself and Ngozi Chima­manda is that she wasn’t willing to give to her ambushing priest a tough straight talk, but I did. The church really has to step in and stem the ugly tide because some of the priests they are deploying to rural parishes are really exploitative and outrightly rude to local parishioners. With me, it was boo­merang that would linger for a while in my hometown church.