DADA JACKSON The founder of ‘Our Tomorrow’, a Non- Governmental Organisation, Prince Emeka Obasi(jnr), has stressed its organisation’s resolve to confront the issue of climate change head on in a bid to further draw attention to its menace He dropped the hint at a Media presentation of his organisation to the public. Monthly Rent Issue: We Are Still Consulting– NIESV President Nigerian Economic Outlook 2022 Begins Today His words: “It gives me great pleasure to address you all. It is with a heart full of trepidation, but also optimism, that I speak to you today. My trepidation stems from the fact that our continent is in danger, threatened menacingly by climate change”. He went on, “Already, Africa is confronted by the twin challenges of insecurity and poverty; now climate change also threatens the continent’s very existence. Climate change is the most consequential issue of the 21st century. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) estimates that costs associated with climate-change adaptation across Africa could hit $50 billion annually by 2050, even if global temperatures do not rise more than 2 degrees Celsius. “Africa stands out disproportionately as the most vulnerable region in the world and this vulnerability is driven by the low levels of socioeconomic growth in Africa”. According to him, climate change provides several opportunities for African countries to harness their huge resource potentials to achieve Sustainable Development targets. Prince Obasi(jnr) said: “Addressing climate change in Africa will create significant market opportunities, especially for the private sector and institutional investors. I am also optimistic about the future of our continent. POLL “I look at the numbers; the millions of young Africans doing exploits globally, and particularly because the vast majority of Africa’s population consists of young people. Yes, the challenge of climate change is enormous, but I’m confident that we have what it takes as the youth of Africa to galvanize action towards averting the climate crisis that now stares us in the face, and which is why I am speaking to you today”. He further said: “Like many of you, I was born at the turn of the 21st century. Indeed, I was born 21 years ago, at a very auspicious time in the history of mankind. It was a time when an age had just passed away, giving birth to a new millennium. “I was born at exactly 1pm on the first day, of the first month, of the first year of the new millennium, precisely on January 1st, 2001.What I find remarkable is that despite maintaining some great interest in current affairs, especially given the fact that my father is a Journalist, I never became conscious of the environmental crisis which has made Lagos an endangered city until I came to England for my college education in 2017. “It was here that I became increasingly aware of the problems of the environment and the challenges they pose, particularly to African countries”. He lamented that he found such level of ignorance inexcusable, and almost unforgivable, adding what it underlined was the acute lack of deliberate policies to create awareness among the younger generation of Africans. Ogun Housing Scheme: Obasanjo Hails Abioduns’ Strides ASG Puts Timberville In Top Shape Ahead Relocation Of Okobaba… According to him, Lagos is a coastal city-state with a population of 21 million and is predicted to see 90cm of sea level rise by the year 2100 as a result of global warming. His words: “According to certain scientific projections, Lagos could become uninhabitable by the end of this century as sea levels rise. In order to deal with this imminent crisis, Lagos state has unveiled a five-year Climate Action Plan (CAP) 2020-2025. “The goal stated by Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is to achieve an emission-neutral He went on: “The case of Lagos state is not unique. “It typifies the acute environmental problems facing many parts of Nigeria. There is increasing desertification in the North, which has had very huge impact on security in the country; erosion in the East, oil spillage in the south/south, among others. The scenario is similar in other parts of Africa. Global warming is expected to melt Africa’s remaining glaciers in the next few decades, and the reduction in water essential to agricultural production will cause food insecurity, poverty and population displacement. “Penultimate week, I travelled to Rivers state to visualize, assess and raise awareness about the effects of environmental degradation in the state. Rivers state has experienced persistent soot in recent years and I witnessed this first hand. “I went down to Ogoniland, Gokana LGA, Bodo town to observe an oil spill caused by a pipeline that had burst several years earlier. The people of Bodo town complained bitterly about their situation and the lack of government action taken to address their situation. “I have resolved to contribute my own quota towards the global push to create a more sustainable, safer, cleaner and healthier environment for the future by setting up an NGO, “Our Tomorrow;” and which is particularly being projected to become an active player in the climate change ecosystem. I am committed to getting the youth of Africa to commit to this noble endeavour. According to him, “Our Tomorrow has a broad three point agenda: to wake up the African youth to the reality of the existential threat climate change poses to their future. “To sensitise African leaders, both at the government, corporate and non-governmental levels, to heed the clarion call for sustained action against climate change. “To mobilise resources, both material and human, to campaign and create sustained awareness of Africans, especially the youth, on the need to be actively involved in the battle to save the environment for their future and that of future generations”. He said: “My target is to mobilise the teeming numbers of the youth of Africa to achieve a critical mass of climate change advocates, whose voices will resonate loudly and clearly and catalyse positive action. “We will use the awesome power of social media to create this unstoppable army and empower their voices in every country in Africa”. “It is important that young people become involved in the global effort to ensure that the Earth is in a fit and proper condition to constitute a worthwhile inheritance. Therefore, the effort to improve the environment should be championed by the youth because the world of tomorrow belongs to us. “Our continent is being ravaged by multinational corporations which are extracting resources without adequate consideration for the environment. The youth of Africa must rise up against this injustice and save the environment for our tomorrow. Throughout history, every generation of African youths have had to rise up to their challenges. Our grandfathers, including people like Nnamdi Azikiwe, Kwame Nkrumah, Obafemi Awolowo, Ahmadu Bello, Julius Nyerere and Nelson Mandela fought for the independence of our people from colonialism. Our fathers have waged a different type of war projecting the image of Africa by excelling in their various endeavours.