JALINGO – The former Minister of Defence Staff and an elder statesman, Lt. Gen. Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (rtd), pop­ularly known as TY, has sin­gle handedly built and com­missioned an International Standard Bible Institute in his county home, Takum, in Takum local government area of Taraba State. Speaking at the occasion, the general and philanthro­pist stated that the project would ease access to the Holy Bible in the local Jukun lan­guage, maintaining that the coming on board of the insti­tute was a new dawn in the area and a revolution which must be embraced by all. He further disclosed that aside from translating the Holy Bible into the Jukun dialect, the institution would save the local Jukun language from going into extinction, even as he described local dia­lects as key in the propagation of the gospel. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Confirmed Man United XI Vs Leeds While commissioning the project, joyous Danjuma ex­pressed hope that the institu­tion would remedy the failure on the part of the people to adequately utilise the local Jukun dialect in the work of God Almighty and also urged the people to bear in mind that they were not into competition, but facilitating the spread of the gospel. He encouraged the people to make use of the publica­tions that would be coming out from the institute and not to store them up in their bookshops. In his goodwill message, the Taraba State gover­nor, Arch. Darius Dickson Ishaku, represented by the Secretary to the State Gov­ernment (SSG), Hon. Antho­ny Jellason, commended Danjuma for the impact he had been making in the state and prayed God to bless him and give him sound health and long life. In an exhortation, the Na­tional President of CRC-N, Rev. Isaiah Magaji Jirapye, who doubles as CAN chair­man in Taraba State, read from 2 Samuel 6:16, and spoke on the theme, ‘Glory be to God for a Dream Come True’. He paid tribute Danjuma for building the institute for the propagation of the gos­pel, describing the gesture as investment in the Kingdom of God. POLL The Executive Director, Nigerian Bible Translation Trust, Jos, Plateau state, Pa­tience Markus, the CRC-N, RCCN Anglican, and Cath­olic churches, delivered goo will messages in which they described the project as first of its kind. Speaking earlier, the Di­rector of the Institute, Na­hum Haruna Angyu and other dignitaries spoke on the significance of the insti­tute, even as they gave the general a pat on the back for actualising the vision.