Lagos – As controversies continue to rage over the alleged fixing of minimal airfare base to N50,000 on one-way economic seat, which is about 100 percent increase by Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), some of the players in the sector have warned that more surprises may be awaiting the travelling public unless the government intervenes. This is as the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has said that airfares are determined by the forces of demand and supply and the regulatory agency can only check predatory practices among the operators. Besides, Mr. Ewos Iroro, the Secretary of AON, debunked the claim that the indigenous operators sat down to fix the current base fares for their members. Speaking with Daily Independent, Capt. Ibrahim Mshelia, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), West Link Airlines, said that the price raise was long overdue and justifiable. 2023: S-South APC Lawmakers Endorse Yahaya Bello For President Northern Forum Rescinds Call For Sack Of NNPC Management According to Mshelia, some of the service providers in recent times had increased their rates, while airfares had remained almost stagnant within the same period. For instance, Mshelia said that the ground handling companies had increased handling services from about N20,000 to N70,000, Customs duties still being collected for spare parts and importation of aircraft despite the waiver regime announced by the government, adding that access to foreign exchange had also become impossible for the operators. He also explained that the price of Jet-A1 has skyrocketed to N426 per litre in the local market, stressing that virtually all the components of aviation is dollar based. He said: “With all due respect to the airlines’ customers across the nation, N50,000 is justifiable. As a matter of fact, it is long overdue. All the service providers servicing the airlines have increased their prices and the government is aware of it. NCAA assisted the ground handling companies to raise their fares. “The airlines that handled N20,000 before is today N70,000. We are all living witnesses to the exchange rate from N300 to a dollar just a few years ago to N585 today as I speak. POLL The airline don’t buy anything in Nigeria to support their service, except the pilots, cabin crew and engineers and a few others for those who don’t have wet-leased fleet that pay their crew in naira. “For those who have wet-leased fleet, they have to source foreign exchange to pay their crew. Some of the airplanes, you have to look for money to pay financing. Foreign exchange has gone up, we don’t have easy access to it, we have to find a way to adjust.” Also, Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Travels, said that the new price by the airline operators was justifiable. According to him, the recent hike in price of aviation fuel is a source of worry to any aviation stakeholder, adding that the inflation in Nigeria made it defensible. Ebonyi Assembly Declares Dep. Speaker’s Seat Vacant, Elects… Why Buhari Is Delaying Assent To Electoral Bill — Presidency He, however, said that the price fixing allegation against the operators could not be proven by anyone, but said the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Agency (FCCPA), which protects the rights of consumers, could investigate the allegation. “I think they are justifying it because of aviation fuel, spare parts, forex and others. The airlines are in Nigeria and they do their businesses in Nigeria and we are all aware of the high inflation rate in the system. “It is difficult to prove price fixing here because the airlines have different fares, even if it is with a difference of N50. What the regulation says is that it should not be low safety traffic, it is not giving a ceiling and above. If it is proven that there is price fixing here, the FCCPA can investigate because consumer protection is against such business ethics.” Besides, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, the General Manager, Public Affairs, NCAA, stated that airfare regime had been deregulated, even before the establishment of NCAA. Adurogboye emphasised further that airfare is determined by the market forces of demand and supply, which the airlines have applied in their business management. “What the civil aviation policy said we should check is predatory practice, which means that if all of them decide to be charging N50,000 as base to any route and another person decides to be charging N5,000 tomorrow, the policy says you should call that person and ask him to substantiate how it can recover cost and still be able to run its operations with that amount. “Other than that, the airlines are at liberty to charge any amount, but if they didn’t see a buyer for whatever they fixed, then they will adjust and it has been happening. Now, if the foreign airlines want to increase their own, again what the regulation says we should do is for us to be notified and not to fix the price for them. If they didn’t see buyers for their product, they will adjust,” he said. Meanwhile, AON has debunked the price fixing allegation. Mr. Ewos Iroro, the Secretary, AON, declared that the body was not aware of any price fixing, maintaining that it is a business decision by each operator. “AON don’t sell pepper where they can fix the price for their goods. It is a business decision by individual airlines,” he said.