Jordi Alba scored an extraordinary volley and Dani Alves was sent off as Barcelona delivered a major boost to their hopes of finishing in La Liga’s top four on Sunday by winning a six-goal thriller against Atletico Madrid. A rampant Barca scored four goals in 40 minutes at Camp Nou before surviving a late fightback from Atletico after Luis Suarez headed in against his former club and Alves saw red with 20 minutes left. A statement victory returns Xavi Hernandez’s into the top four for the first time since September, with Atletico now two points behind in fifth. BREAKING: Senegal Register Maiden Victory In AFCON BREAKING: Senegal  Beat Egypt To Win AFCON Final Atletico took an early lead through Yannick Carrasco but Barcelona came storming back, Alba equalising with surely one of the goals of the season before Gavi, Ronald Araujo and Alves all struck to leave Atletico facing an annihilation. Instead, Suarez headed in and Alves was sent off as tempers flared. But Barcelona held on, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, signed from Arsenal, coming on off the bench to make his debut in the second half. With Barcelona in containment mode, Aubameyang’s influence was limited and it was another January signing, Adama Traore, who made the biggest impact with an electric first-half performance. Barca were ninth in the league, six points behind Atletico in fourth, when Xavi was appointed coach. Now, they are in the driving seat to seal qualification for the Champions League, which would be so crucial to their financial recovery. POLL Barca came into the game on the back of a dramatic transfer window that also saw Ferran Torres brought in. Traore, a La Masia graduate, and Torres both started but Aubameyang, who had been sidelined by Arsenal in recent weeks, was only deemed fit enough for the bench, along with Ousmane Dembele, who Xavi welcomed back into the fold despite threats of exile last month from the club. Dembele is yet to extend his deal, which expires in the summer, and he was whistled before kick-off. He was not introduced in the second half, although such was the drama of the contest by then, perhaps the crowd might not have noticed