Akinloye Oyegbola is the past president, Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS), and president, Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN). In this interview, he highlights some activities of the association and their impact on the larger society. Excerpts: Why was APBN founded? APBN was founded by a group of professionals who believed that there was a vacuum in the organised private sector of the economy, where you have NACCIMA, NECA, and MAN in 1980 and obtained government recognition in 1992. They all felt that the professionals in the private sector of the economy should have a common front. No Party Can Unseat APC In Lagos –Buraimoh Delta: Nwaoboshi Meets Okowa In Battle Of Incumbents The aim per se is to advance professionals and professionalism in Nigeria and its practice. Basically, it seeks to confer valuable professional advantages and privileges, impose professional responsibilities on its member bodies and encourage them to support works that are very important to the professionals and the country. Currently it has 31 foremost professional bodies. Since there are professional bodies in various sectors who oversee the activities of their members, is the founding of APBN not a duplication of function? If you come from what the aim is, advancement of professionalism and professional practice in the country, none of those individual professional bodies can be said to be advancing professionalism in the country. Again, it is not the individuals that are members of the APBN, it’s the professional bodies that are members of the APBN. So while the individuals are members of their respective professional bodies, the bodies now have a conglomerate of the professions, which is the APBN. And looking at it literally, nobody would be against where a group of people or corporate organisations with allied interest come together, they can never lose but benefit. POLL With the number of professional bodies in Nigeria, how are you able to aggregate their interests without offending some? Even if you look at it generally, anybody who sets out to satisfy everybody does not know what he’s up to. You set out to satisfy a majority. By and large, what you try to do is to ensure equity, fairness, and justice. You will always have common and individual interests. When you want to further a common interest, you need an association like the APBN. Why do you think we are having fracas between some professional bodies and their regulatory bodies, and what is APBN doing about it? I would prefer to call it a no-lovelost, not fracas per se, because they still at the end of the day have their common ground, only that they wouldn’t agree in its entirety. It’s still a fallout from our level of development. When you are developing, interests clash and even at times, some of the interests are mundane. They are things you can easily define, but they are interests because you have not developed to have taken care of them along the line. Kwara: The Men Angling For Governor Abdurazak’s Job Security Agencies Watch As Thugs Turn Minna To Panic City It’s the associations that go to government for regulatory body so that as soon as you have that regulatory body, whatever you come up with becomes law. So whether someone subscribes to the association or not, in as much as he is practicing that profession, he has to abide by what the association comes up with. The regulatory body is there to take care of both the interest of the public and the professionals as a government organ. But you also know that most of the time, the regulatory bodies tend to lord it over the association? By the time you have the regulatory body now constituted, authority gets into the head of those in government; that I am the law, irrespective of how I came about. That is the problem. However, it is not totally out of place, but it’s how we manage it that we should look at, because interest will always differ. The extent to which they would have been able to manage it will now differ from one professional body to the other. And it will be characterized by the peculiarity of the practice of even that profession. Some would have clashes more often because of the nature of the practice of that profession and some would not have too many clashes. But you cannot avoid it because the man in government will say, I am the law, what I say stands. But most times, that law is supposed to be put together through the association, because that is the essence of it itself. But as time goes on, you still see those in government talk of authority. Governments in Nigeria are apt to relegating professionals. How have you been interfacing with governments in ensuring professional input in policy enactments? When you say you have formed a body to further the aggregate views of the professionals in the country, it goes without saying that one of the objectives will be that you want the government to have a one-stop-shop for opinions and recommendations of professionals on issues of national importance. Government agencies are inviting us when necessary, for meetings and conferences, and when necessary, asking for input of professionals in the country. So, I want to believe that so much has been achieved and that there is also a lot of rooms for improvement. We believe that the more we enhance our advocacy drive, the more those in government get to know about us. And the more we will be able to have input in policy directions. We used to go through the budgets in the pasts and make representations to National Assembly. We have had to appear on many public hearings at the National Assembly. That has also made the National Assembly to ask for our inputs on issues that have to do with professions and professionals and even professionalism itself. What exactly was your major agenda coming in as the APBN president? Basically, advocacy – as I discovered that if they don’t know you there, there is not much you can make. That, I said I was going to really work on. So, each time we are having our board meeting, I always ensure that there is a press conference to address topical issues of national interest. Beyond advocacy, education and enlightenment. You have to reengineer some things to be able to deliver when it is required. I have done a bit of that in-house and most of our programmes are now at a far higher level of attendance. Like on the issue of the 21-storey building collapse, we made it clear during our press conference that what we have on ground was not a lack of local expertise but lack of control and monitoring for compliance, because I know that to put up a 50-storey building is not rocket science. What we had was that somebody found out that the control and monitoring unit is not doing anything and decided to cut corners. That could happen anywhere in the world because he doesn’t know anything about structures, that it was just a matter of time. Most of the things you are putting together are a permanent and recurring weight on each other. If you don’t put them well, in just a matter of time, they will collapse. Even if it’s just the brazen that you don’t put the way you need to put it, it is enough to make the building collapse. Even when you use the size of the rod you are supposed to use. If you don’t use the interval, you calculate it. We were using slide rules then, now there is software that gives you what you want to make it stand. But when it now gives you and you look over your shoulder to see that nobody is watching, and you consider what it will cost you to adhere to what it’s giving you, you are likely to cut corners. Most times you enforce all these things because as human beings, we are expected to be selfish and work with our instinct. It is the intellect that makes us higher animals. It is not out of place that man is selfish. It is the intellect you have used to now come up with something that is manmade. Then you say, if I am selfish, you are selfish and every other person is selfish, we are likely to have chaos. Then you come up with norms. Adherence to norms is the discipline, someone has to enforce it. Those things don’t come just like that, someone has to enforce it. With the time you have spent so far, do you see yourself accomplishing all that you set out on your agenda? One particular one that I have not been able to even make a headway on, is in the area of no love lost between the professional bodies and their regulatory bodies. I had set out to have a committee that would look into it, look at what the problems were and come up with recommendations of what should be the working relationship between our associations, societies or institutions and their regulatory bodies. I was thinking that during my tenure, APBN would have recommendations on some salient areas of human endeavours which will serve as a reference point to our professionals. Because, it wasn’t going to be me doing it, my presidents appear to be too busy and I don’t seem to be making a headway. I am not really happy about it. I feel APBN has come of age and should have its own recommendations on such areas. For instance, resolution of conflicts, you expect that, it is natural. It’s not that you shouldn’t have conflict but how you resolve conflict; how you look at conflict and where you think conflicts are coming from. Those are areas I was thinking we were going to have recommendations.