ENUGU – The former Governor of old Anambra State and Senator who represented Enugu East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Jim Ifeanyichukwu Nwobodo, says Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State will go to higher places because of his rare humility and penchant for peace. Senator Nwobodo disclosed that the success of Gov. Ugwuanyi is humility, adding that it was because of the governor’s humility that he was able to entrench peace and good governance in Enugu State. “If you don’t have humility, you are going nowhere. You must be humble and when you are humble, God will lift you up; if not, God will bring you down”, Senator Nwobodo said while addressing a large crowd at the Enugu South Local Government headquarters during the campaign rally of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the February 23, 2022, LG elections in the state. Ugwuanyi Is Destiny Helper, Says Nnamani Peace, Security: Nasarawa Assembly Set To Create Additional… Senator Nwobodo, who arrived at the rally with his wife, Pat, revealed that it was because of the governor that he attended the political event at the venue. According to him, “This is the first time I am coming here. I came here because of you (Ugwuanyi); if not you, I wouldn’t have come. There were people who led as Governors, I didn’t come. You are Governor and I said I will come. “Let me repeat humility, you have it, that is why you make peace and when you make peace it will last. There is nothing greater than peace. There is nothing better than peace. And with this humility, you will go higher”. The former Governor went further to appreciate Gov. Ugwuanyi for keeping to his promise to construct the access road (with a bridge) to his ancestral home in Amechi, saying: “Before now if I want to go to my ancestral home I will drive three to four miles but today it takes me not up to five minutes. “Thank you very much. As you respect me, you will be respected. You will complete your tenure peacefully. God will be leading you, nothing will happen to you. I am happy to see how this place is. POLL “The crowd here is enough proof that Enugu is number one PDP. You have brought peace in Enugu State and that peace will not depart Enugu in Jesus Name, Amen”. At the grand finale of the Gov. Ugwuanyi-led PDP LG elections campaign tours, held ooo in Enugu North LGA, the former Governor of Enugu State and Senator representing Enugu East Senatorial District, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, described the rallies held across the 17 LGAs of the state as “the highest level of political mobilization ever in the history of the state”. Senator Nnamani added that the PDP LG elections campaigns were “a good rehearsal of the 2023 general elections”. The federal lawmaker expressed delight that everybody was involved in the campaigns, pointing out that “I have not seen this kind of political development in recent times”. He, therefore, commended Gov. Ugwuanyi for galvanizing leaders and members of the party in the state to get involved in the politics of the state, which he described as “a serious business”.