Over the years, indigenous contractors in Nigeria have recorded low levels of patronage, and are often sidelined in large scale construction activities, especially by the government who are the biggest client in construction services. Indigenous contractors have not had a fair share of major construction activities in the country, as they are often awarded to their foreign counterparts who are considered more technically and managerially superior and efficient in funds acquisition and project execution. Since 1997, the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), produced a draft recommendation for the “National Construction Policy” to back-up its long canvassed need for government to take the question of technological development of indigenous capacity more seriously. Agencies Intensify Battle Against Roadside Traders Road Transport Union Or Cesspool Of Thugs, Extortionists In… Later, other interested groups like the Nigerian Institute of Building, the Nigerian Institute of Architects, the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors , organised seminars and workshops aimed at encouraging the development of indigenous capacity and participation and ultimately, indigenous control of all facets of the construction industry in Nigeria. The situation however, is still far from encouraging. The volume of work and the percentage in value of contracts handled by the indigenous contractors is still too low compared to those handled by foreign and multinational companies. The trend has been attributed to a number of factors, amongst which are; poor project execution, mismanagement of funds and working capital which makes them prone to bankruptcy and abandonment of road projects. This is indeed disheartening. It is so because indigenous contractors are faced with several management problems in obtaining jobs, controlling its finance and successfully managing its project to completion within a scheduled time period. In evaluating the level of participation of indigenous contractors in the execution of road construction projects in Nigeria, we discovered that the Federal Government is found to be most guilty in the use of foreign contractors in the execution of its road projects in neglect of their local counterparts. POLL It is estimated that 98 per cent (98%) of its road projects are given out to foreign firms. This is largely attributed to the perceived inability of local contractors to effectively manage large projects. The various state governments however, fared better in this respect. Even though, Local contractors are generally seen as holding the greatest potential for increasing construction industry capacity and general economic development, yet the construction industry in the country is dominated by foreign contractors. The Nigerian Government has developed so much fondness and huge patronage for foreign companies thereby, leaving their own contractors starved of work. As foreign contractors carry out more jobs, they gain better expertise on the job while the Nigerian contractors remain inexperienced and unable to compete with their foreign counterparts. Ogun Seeks Special Status For Federal Government’s Funding Of… Police, VIS, TRACE To Synergise For Effective Field Operations… Over the years, indigenous contractors have being plagued with under-capitalisation, poor project performance in terms of meeting completion dates, work quality and capital management which has often led to bankruptcy and in extreme cases, project abandonment. According to Engineer Adeodun Oyewo, a Senior Engineer with an international engineering firm, handling various projects across the country, “The Construction process is capital intensive. From inception to completion, cost is incurred at every stage. However, the major cost is incurred during the actual construction stage where irreversible commitment of fund is undertaken in the procurement and deployment of resources such as labour, plant, materials and managerial expertise to achieve the finished product. Most indigenous contractors, however, complete construction contracts at sums far in excess of the initial contract sums and within time frames in excess of the pre-planned completion times. There is thus, no gainsaying that for successful project initiation and delivery there must be adequate provision and availability of capital.” He added. Engineer Emeka Nsofor, Managing Partner, Xcess Tecnologies, said: “The contractor’s working capital or finance is the resource he requires to facilitate the smooth execution of the construction work on site. It is made up of cash at hand, bank loan, overdraft, credit purchases, work-in-progress, recoverable debts. Working capital also involves the assets needed to lubricate the daily transactions of the construction business.” In order to help our local road contractors to meet international standards, It is imperative for us to assess the participation of indigenous contractors in the Nigerian construction industry, the processes and challenges of working capital management in the construction industry. The construction industry in Nigeria, according to Engineer Foluso of PYC Consults an Engineering consulting firm, provides the driving force necessary for sustaining economic buoyancy. It contributes an average of 5 per cent to the annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and an average of about one-third of the total fixed capital investment. “Firms, companies or organisations that carry out construction works are called ‘contractors’. They offer their skills and services and accept the challenge of executing the works in exchange for financial reward. “These indigenous contractors are characterised by under-capitalisation, under capacity utilisation, understaffing, and are generally managerially handicapped.” He revealed. He spoke further that over the years, the poor performance of this category of contractors has been a source of concern and worry, particularly when compared with their foreign counterparts. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that there is record of high number of bankruptcies in this group, poor quality work, mismanagement, diversion and embezzlement of project fund, and the general economic depression has made the survival and growth of indigenous contractors pretty difficult, particularly in view of inflationary trends, high cost of construction materials, high cost of borrowing capital, government policy change in favour of deregulation, and the current wave of global economic meltdown. In Nigeria today, few large companies control a large percentage of the total workload of the construction industry, while a large number of small and medium sized companies which make up the class of indigenous contractors share a very low percentage of the construction workload. More recent reference to this is the award of the re – construction, repairs and maintenance of key economic roads under the SUKUK scheme across the six geo – political zones to about 11 foreign construction firms worth several billions of naira.