A group under the aegis of All Progressives Congress Youth Development and Solidarity Forum (APC-YDSF) has warned against imposing Senator Sani Musa as the next national chairman of the party ahead of the February 26 convention. Secretary-General of the Forum, Mr. Tobias Ogbeh disclosed this while addressing a press conference on Sunday in Abuja. He warned that the alleged imposition may lead to an implosion of the party chairman.The group alleged that some governors have been plotting to in the past months towards illegally winning public offices at the highest level so as to put a candidate of their choice. APC Convention: February Date Remains Sacrosanct – PGF CONVENTION: APC Chieftains Sue Buni, Want Exercise Stopped It added that it was for this reason that it was raising the alarm so that Nigerians would know that people with less than sincere interest are on the verge of hijacking the APC and consequently impose a presidential candidate on Nigerians while using the popularity of the APC to win the election and then capture power to the detriment of Nigerians. The APC stakeholders stressed that Nigerians are all witnesses to how the APC has been plunged into a needless crisis because of the overbearing activities of some governors. The group also alleged that some governors of the ruling party have hijacked the party’s national convention by the way they fixed February 26, 2022, the date for the event, which it said was  in flagrant disregard for the preferences expressed by stakeholders. “Some of the Governors and their other desperate allies that include serving ministers have perfected plans to ensure that Senator Sani Musa is imposed as APC National Chairman alongside other lackeys that would be named to other positions at the convention. “Senator Sani Musa would in turn deliver Governor Atiku Bagudu as APC presidential flagbearer and Kayode Fayemi as his running mate. They have cooked up what they called “unity list” to package their plot as something positive and desirable for the party and the country when the contrary is the case.” POLL “Sadly, things are now clearer. The governors in question never bothered about what stakeholders thought, wanted, or demanded because for them, the National Convention is a fait accompli.” E