Apart from the challenge of petrol subsidy, another potential catastrophe that has been allowed to fester and therefore lurking and likely to take its toll on our country’s ability to generate revenue for self-sustenance is the huge losses of crude oil to thieves. It is a serious act of criminality being recorded in the oil and gas sector. That is what recently piqued Tony Elumelu, chairman of HEIRS Holdings, and prompted him into raising an alarm about the fact that Nigeria is losing about $4 billion annually to crude oil theft. When the fact that one-third of our nation’s budget is geared towards debt servicing (N3.8 trillion) and another quarter (N3 trillion is committed to funding subsidy) turning a blind eye to the loss of about $4 billion to oil crude oil thieves, are red flags inviting our attention to the fact that our economy would collapse sooner than later if measures are not taken to address the prevailing malaise of imprudent management of our abundant intangible resources. During the run-up to the election of then President Umaru Musa Yar’adua to replace then President Olusegun Obasanjo in 2007, I had the privilege of packaging the 7 point agenda for the presidential campaign of then-candidate, Umaru Musa Yar’adua of blessed memory. And unleashing the value of land in the hinterland (intangible wealth) which has been dead capital because of land use decree imposed by then army general, Olusegun Obasanjo, OBJ, when he was military head of state was one of the priorities captured in the 7 points agenda. Unfortunately, Yar’adua passed away barely two years into his first term as president. So the agenda was never pursued further, especially as it pertains to repealing and replacing the atrocious land use decree which was introduced implicitly to take control of the mineral resources endemic in the Niger Delta by the federal government; and explicitly in pursuance of the mission of federal might by OBJ as military head of state. Buharitocracy Versus Banditocracy Fuel Subsidy: Good Politics Can you imagine how rich folks in the hinterland with vast lands (currently without significant market value) would be if the land use decree is repealed today and such land assets can serve as collateral for them to obtain loans from banks to produce wealth? I can bet that such a policy reversal would skyrocket the GDP of our country overnight from the current $430 million to at least $1.1 billion like that of Indonesia. But our leaders in Aso Rock Villa, seat of power and hallowed chambers of NASS, are too blindsided to identify such opportunities that could enhance the growth potentials of our country. Rather they prefer to sustain their emasculation of the masses by plucking the low-hanging fruits via setting high revenue generation targets for agencies like Nigerian Customs Service, Federal Inland Revenue Service etc. All in the bid to sustain the extravaganza into which the government has degenerated such that instead of serving the people, our leaders in government are prioritising and pursuing personal aggrandisement agenda. It is quite stunning to me that practically every anomaly that the incumbent government promised Nigerians that it has come to correct has become more entrenched and even intractable. Take fuel subsidies for instance. President Buhari as a retired army general between 1995-98 served as chairman of Petroleum Trust Fund, PTF which is a social intervention agency set up by the late head of state, army general Sani Abacha to ameliorate the pains of petrol subsidy withdrawal which his government implemented. Why is it that, unlike his predecessors who were compelled to introduce social safety net measures to serve as a buffer when petrol subsidy is removed, there has been no significant policy introduced to kill the monster of fuel subsidy and give Nigerians some succor in the past six (6) or more years of president Buhari’s reign? Instead, the pump price of petrol has climbed from about N87 per liter in 2015 to N162 today. And the naira /dollar exchange rate has spiraled from less than N200 before the APC ascension to power at the center, nearly 7 years ago, to the current outrageous parallel market rate hovering around and inching towards N600 to $1. Could it simply be drilled down to the current ruling party at the center, APC being unprepared to lead even though president Buhari had been in the contest to lead Nigeria four times beginning from 2003 until he clinched it in 2015? At the nascent stages of the life of this administration, some of us shouted ourselves hoarse while trying to draw the attention of the incumbent government to the fact that it was foolhardy setting up the Itse Sagay led anti-corruption committee which indicated that the war against corruption was the priority of the government. We tried to counsel that it is a crass strategy to prioritize establishing an anti-corruption committee over and above setting up an economic advisory team which could have steered the nation away from the two economic recessions which it descended into successively in a period of fewer than five years. Today, apart from 10.5 million children being out of school,(according to UNICEF report) of which about half of them would be recruited into criminality such as religious insurgents and bandits, a recent corruption index rating by the global anti-corruption agency, Transparency International, TI ranks Nigeria as no 154 of the l80 most corrupt countries in the world. Nigeria scored only 26 of the 100 points in the matrix to be adjudged to be a corruption-free or corruption-afflicted country. POLL It is gutting that our country has dropped in the TI rating consistently in the past three years from 24 points to 25 and the current 26 points. So, by and large, the perception of our beloved country by outsiders has become worse since president Buhari met it in 2015. It is needless emphasising that negative corruption perception impedes Foreign Direct Investment, FDI, into our country. And attracting foreign investment via the creation of an enabling environment which reduces the risk of doing business is a cardinal quest of any country. With the 2023 general elections on the horizon, pundits are predicting a further flight of foreign investment out of our country. As if the administration saved the best for last (a tactic that is only ideal in the entertainment industry) it appointed Professor Doyin Salami as economic adviser and chairman of the economic advisory council at a time that it is at the expiry stage of its constitutionally allowed two terms tenure. This means that Buhari’s regime has a shelf life of barely 17 months and it is seeking economic advice which is tantamount to medicine after death. It reminds me of the instructive and inspiring case study about an owner of a law firm. The lawyer detested advertising so much so that he swore never to use the services of advertising firms to market his services. Over the years, his law firm became insolvent owing to lack of visibility and he had no better option than to sell it. After failing to sell it without the help of advertisement, he enlisted the services of an advertising firm to solicit for a buyer of his law firm that had become unviable due to his irredeemable disdain for advertising. That is what appears to be the case in Nigeria where authorities failed at inception to appoint a world-class economic team to help salvage our economy that was in dire straits. Instead, it prioritised the anti-corruption agenda by setting up PACAC – a bunch of bellyaching and hell-raising eggheads that have engaged more in activism for self-aggrandisement than playing the role of policy wonks that they are supposed to be doing. And in the process, they have unwittingly chased away investors-both local and foreign. Federalism: The Relationship Between The Federating States And… Petrol Subsidy Retention: President Buhari Kicks The Can Down… Ultimately, the de-marketing of Nigeria orchestrated by members of the Itsey Sagay committee against corruption and the minister of information, Lai Mohammed that appeared to have been competing with each on who would label our country with the worst toga of corruption in order to ‘earn’ the commendation of President Buhari that is believed to have zero tolerance for corruption, obliterated whatever good that was left in the image and reputation of our dear country. I am convinced that it is such unwarranted self-immolation (by shouting on the rooftop that Nigerians are fantastically corrupt) aimed at salvaging the previous administration in the eyes of the world that in part, practically led our country into economic doldrums -two successive recessions as investors quickly took a flight out of our country. As the saying goes, a comet does not strike in the same place twice in a lifetime. But in defiance of that aphorism, our country’s economy went into recession back-to-back twice, which is unprecedented in the annals of our nation. It is in the light of the conventional wisdom: it is better late than never, that it is hoped that even in the eleventh hour, Doyin Salami and his economic team would help president Buhari leave a more appealing legacy by assisting him to salvage what is left of a sordid odyssey, so that the image and reputation of this government would be better than what it is rapidly crystallising into. I would argue that over the past decades that the reform of the oil/gas sector was put on the drawing board, nothing much has really changed in government policy about petrol subsidy. That is despite the plan to end petrol subsidy whose execution was commenced through the provision of a little more than N400 billion in 2022 fiscal appropriation. That is underscored by the fact that slaying the dragon of petrol subsidy is in consonance with the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, a policy that had been in the pipeline for several decades and of which president Buhari broke the jinx by being the one that signed the bill into an act of law. It is rather astonishing that the gains made with the introduction of PIA have suffered a reversal following the reintroduction of petrol subsidy into the 2022 budget after it had been passed by NASS and approved by President Buhari. It is most likely that the provision of N3 trillion to fund petrol subsidy and which is the subject of this intervention, is also a policy supported by the economic adviser to the president, Doyin Salami, and his economic management team. If the advice of his economic management team has been ignored, it elicits the question: is the engagement of the economic council led by Salami just cosmetic? Again, it is worth noting that President Buhari was elected by Nigerians in 2015 to basically end religious Insurgency by those now tagged bandits wreaking havoc on society, kill corruption which is responsible for the underdevelopment of our cherished country and improve on governance system by strengthening internal democracy in the political parties to boost the process of recruiting our political leaders and most importantly, alleviate poverty especially for the masses who constitute the bulk of his supporters. It is highly disappointing that the aforementioned goals in the mission of Buhari have been achieved in breach. The non-achievement of his lofty objectives is presumably owed to Mr. President is susceptible to being swayed by people around him who basically have agendas that are hardly altruistic. To be continued Onyibe an Entrepreneur, Public Policy Analyst, author, Development Strategist, alumnus of Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, USA and a former Commissioner in Delta State government, wrote in from Lagos