Senator Silas Jona­than Zwingina, for­mer Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, who represented Adamawa South between 1999 to 2007, has dismissed insinuations that the planned recognition of Chibuike Amaechi, Minis­ter of Transportation, as the ‘Dan Amanar’ Daura by the emirate and people of Daura in Katsina State is not politi­cally-motivated but borne out of merits and the outstanding performance and leadership qualities of the minister. Senator Zwingina said the Daura Emirate considered the numerous achievements recorded by the Minister in the transport sector in Nige­ria and by extension Daura, their home community. He said rather than per­ceive such a gesture, as po­litically-motivated, attention should be shifted to the mer­its of the projects executed by Amaechi and his sterling leadership qualities. NiMET Warns Of Extreme Heats As Temperature Rises Across States Yobe Commends AFRYDEV For Training GBV Survivors Describing the development as most welcomed, the former lawmaker explained that it was the culture of the Daura Emirate to show appreciation and single out those who have impacted on their lives. “It is a most welcome de­velopment. It is the culture of the people to reward and sin­gle out those who have done something for the communi­ty that will remain with them for life. It is totally out of pol­itics and nobody should read any extra ordinary meaning to it. The kind of projects that the Minister has put in the country, has put in Daura, I’m sure the President did not re­quest for them. The Minister came up with them himself and considered it worthy to put those projects there and the Federal Executive Coun­cil approved them. There is the University of Transpor­tation and the railway line that would pass through the emirate. The most interesting thing is that the university is a Corporate Social Responsi­bility(CSR) project. That is to say that they are practically free of charge to the govern­ment as it’s compatible with the actual rail projects the Chinese are executing”, he said. He said the idea of execut­ing projects through Corpo­rate Social Responsibility this way is peculiar to Amaechi even as he urged other Min­isters to emulate Amaechi’s style. “The Ministers that hav­en’t thought about that, or if they have, I’m not aware that anyone is doing Corpo­rate Social Responsibility projects the way it is done by Amaechi. So, I commend him sincerely for that because it’s either there would have been no Corporate Social Respon­sibility projects in the man­ner of the University, or it would have been diverted. The gesture by Amaechi is beyond Daura. The spirit is that every multinational com­pany that has a big project here should have a Corporate Social Responsibility project that is visible, identifiable and publicized in the man­ner the Daura Community has done”.