ASABA – The National Coordinator, Centre For Peace And Environmental Justice, CEPEJ, Comrade Chief Sheriff Mulade has urged Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to use his remaining days in office to invest more in Warri to enable it regain its lost glory as the commercial nerves of the state. Chief MULADE made this remark yesterday being on Monday, 21st February, 2022 during an exclusive interview with newsmen in Asaba, Delta State capital as Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP retreats, embarks on a three days Capacity Building/Workshop from 21st to 23rd February, 2022 for its members to promote peaceful co-existence amongst Ijaws and Itsekiris of Delta State. Warri Multi-Stakeholders Platform, MSP is forum to consolidate on the existing Peaceful coexistence among the Ijaw and Itsekiri ethnic groups and promote equitable economic development and peaceful co-existence in their various Communities in Delta State. The three days Annual capacity building Workshop was sponsored PIND Foundation, a Foundation For Partnership Niger-Delta, a Nigerian non-Profit organization established to promote equitable development and peace-building in the Niger-Delta Region through partnership and facilitation of programs delivery, capacity building, advocacy, Communications, Gender and social inclusion. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks CEPEJ Boss, Mulade, a renowned Niger-Delta Activist cum member, Warri MSP who is a global peace advocate stated that, the critical stakeholders comprises of Community Leaders, representives of Olu of Warri, Monarchs of Gbaramatu, Egbema and Ogbe-Ijoh Kingdoms and other Communities in the 3 Warri LGAs comprises Ijaws, Itsekiris, Urhobos in the area. He commended PIND Foundation for the sponsorship of the programme, the Chairman and members of MSP for the Workshop and urged Participants to take good Advantage of the program. The Niger-Delta Activist, when asked by Journalists why the event was hosted in Asaba, he stated that it will afford the participants the opportunities of full Participation and concentration, devoid of distractions as they are completely away from their homes. He added that hosting the Workshop in the state capital will also, afford them the opportunity to see development as a product of peaceful co-existence using Asaba as typical example. He then commended the Delta State Governor, Sen. Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa for level of development so far in Asaba, while he called the state Governor to invest more in Warri as an avenue to generate more revenue for the state Government and revamp the economy of the area as the environment is no longer viable when compared to her glorious old days. He enjoined the Governor to use his remaining days in office to ensure that Warri and its environs regain its lost glory as the Commercial hub of the state. Mulade, a global peace Ambassador noted further that, this call is not for only the Delta State Government, but to all Stakeholders; the Local Government, Community Leaders, Youths, Women, Oil Companies and most importantly the Federal Government, especially in the area of ensuring the opening of the Warri Sea ports and revamping of the economy of the area. He called on the Youths in the area to shun violence, support the Government at all levels maintain peace and security, to promote peaceful co-existence amongst the two ethnic groups in the area for development to thrive in the area like the state capital, while urged the Youths, other critical stakeholders, and Delta State Government to key into the Programs of the group as he assured Deltans of MSP Forum’s capacity to promote peaceful co-existence between the Ijaws and Itsekiris of Delta State.