ABUJA – The Commander Operation Safe Haven, Major General Ibrahim Ali has reminded Plateau youths of their critical role in nation building and charged them to be deliberate in the pursuit of peace for sustainable growth and development. The Commander gave the charge today 17 Feb 22 while declaring open the First Irigwe and Fulani Youth of Bassa Local Government Area Summit 2022 organized by Operation Safe Heaven in Jos. According to a statement signed by Major Ishaku Takwa, Military Information Officer OPSH, the Commander urged the participants to come up with workable framework that will unite the Irigwe and Fulani youths towards putting an end to all forms of hostility in the area. OGD’s Driver Kills Police Officer Attached To The Former… Edo NUJ Warns Against Attack Of Members On Lawful Duties General Ali noted that the Summit was organised as a prelude to the implementation of recommendations made by a committee that worked out modalities towards achieving lasting peace in the area. He further charged the youths to ensure no act of hostility takes place in the area, adding that the peace and reconciliation modalities can only be achieved when the youth agree to forgive one another and live in peace. The Commander urged the participants to be agents of peace and purveyors of good news, helping the society to change an already established ugly narrative in the Bassa area of the state. The commander also tasked the youths to educate their colleagues on the importance of peace, adding that OPSH will continually discharge its constitutional duty with utmost respect for the sensitivity of the local environment. He called for the sustenance of the cooperation with OPSH, while discouraging tendencies like hate speech and disinformation that are capable of fueling crisis in the society. The Guest Speakers at the occasion, Mallam Salis Mohammad and Mr Mugu Bako, stressed the need for effective local interventions to solving communal crisis and building a stronger relationship among different ethnic communities. They both advised the participants to place great value on human lives. Speaking through their representatives, the participants lauded the pragmatic steps taken by Operation Safe Haven to dialogue with the youth to address security concerns in Bassa area, especially by re-educating the youth and engaging critical stakeholders in peaceful dialogue. They promised to support security agencies to achieve their mandate. POLL You are please requested to disseminate this information through your medium. Thank you for your usual cooperation.