LAGOS  – MTN Group, on December 2021,embarked on a public offer of 575 million shares in MTN Nigeria at N169 per share. This was the first phase of a series of offers that will see the group reduce its shareholding in MTN Nigeria from 78.83 per cent to 65 per cent over time. The offer was designed to maximise participation from local Nigerian retail investors, providing as many people as possible with the opportunity to own shares in MTN Nigeria. Subsidy Removal Generations Of Nigerians Will Suffer FMDQ Becomes World Federation Of Exchanges Full Member As a demonstration of the belief MTN has in financial inclusion, the group provided for the offer to be delivered digitally. This was a first in Nigeria’s history and it was structured in this manner to ensure availability to as many Nigerian investors as possible. This has certainly been achieved as approximately 76 per cent of successful applicants from the digital platform are women and 85 per cent are youths under the age of 40. Karl Toriola, Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria while commenting on the offer said: “We are delighted to welcome so many new shareholders to the MTN family, It has been inspiring to see so many Nigerians, many of whom are young, acquire shares for the first time, and use a digital platform to do so. “We are pleased with the level of digital innovation we championed with this offer with the active collaboration of our lead issuing house and the various regulatory bodies. POLL ‘It is a process to deepen retail participation in Nigeria’s capital markets and we are off to a great start, demonstrating the role digital platforms can play in expanding access.” The Offer was 139.47 per cent oversubscribed with a total of 802 million units by both retail and institutional investors. This has led to the activation of the approved 15 per cent greenshoe of an additional 86.25 million MTN Nigeria shares. As a result, 661.25 million MTN Nigeria shares were allotted, comprising the 575 million Offer shares and the 86.25 million greenshoe. In addition to 126,720 retail investors who participated and received full allotment, Nigeria’s pension funds that invested represent approximately 6.5 million Nigerian contributors. Following the successful completion of the Offer, MTN Group’s shareholding in MTN Nigeria reduced by 3.2 percentage points from 78.83 per cent to 75.58 per cent, Ralph Mupita MTN Group CEO said, “With over 6.6 million Nigerians directly or indirectly becoming shareholders in MTN Nigeria, the objective of broadening the shareholder base, and creating shared value has been achieved. We are proud that our Offer was the first Nigerian public offer to use the digital application platform, PrimaryOffer, which enabled wider investor participation across Nigeria. We remain committed to playing our humble role in driving digital and financial inclusion in Nigeria over the medium.” In line with the innovative incentive structure of one free share for every 20 shares purchased subject to a maximum of 250 free shares per investor, a further additional 4.28 million shares will be allotted to qualifying retail investors who hold the shares allotted to them for 12 months till January 31, 2023 and their CSCS accounts will be credited thereafter.