LAGOS – A Lagos based businessman and estate developer, Oluwato­bi Osonuga, has called on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba Alkali, to save him from gun – wielding po­licemen who at the weekend (Saturday), led armed thugs to demolish his properties in the Awoyaya area of Lagos State. Osonuga said that the po­licemen turned themselves to “land grabbers”, before now and went further to demolish his building without any order from any court. The businessman, who lamented the enormous loss he suffered to the Saturday demolition, also accused the policemen of arresting eleven of his workers early Friday, prior to the invasion, after a High Court in Lagos had ruled against such arrest in the past, by declaring it as illegal and awarding charges against the police in favour of the arrested workers. NGO Brings Succour To Widows, Aged, Less Privileged In Ibadan Folarin Family Releases Details Of Angela’s Burial… The business man said that policemen from the Lagos State Police Command and Zone 2 Command, Onikan had perma­nently stationed themselves on his property and claimed to be acting on ” Order From Above” – the IGP . He said, “My workers were working on my land in the Awoyaya area of the state, when I got a report that heavily armed policemen had invaded the place and had taken over the land .” “The Saturday invasion happened less than a month after Justice S A Olaitan of the High Court of Lagos, Epe ruled against such arrest in the past and awarded #250 000 ( Two hundred and fifty thou­sand naira ) charges against the police .” The business man claimed that “What they are doing is not only against the judgement of a court but also a disregard to the Lagos State Attorney Gen­eral and Commissioner for Justice” “In the past, the police from Abuja asked me questions on the ownership of the land, I gave them the necessary doc­uments, including a Certifi­cate of Occupancy, which had on many occasions been con­firmed and authenticated by the Lagos State Government to confirm my ownership of the place .” POLL He added, “I don’t know their mission .They are not different from land grabbers. “They ar­rested two of my workers and I had to seek redress from the court, where they were told not to arrest my workers again and to also pay the two that were ar­rested #250 000 damages.”