YENAGOA – National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has concluded the distribution of relief materials to victims of flood and other disasters around impacted communities in the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. The disasters that occurred in the area in 2021 included ocean surges, windstorms and flooding which destroyed property, farmlands and also displaced many residents. Items distributed to the victims were rice, beans, garri, vegetable oil, tin tomatoes, seasoning, salt, mattresses, mosquito nets and blankets, among others. FCTA Donates Food, Provision, Learning Materials To IDP NEMA Receives 159 Stranded Nigerians From Libya NEMA carried out the exercise under its post-disaster assistance, which was facilitated by the member representing Southern Ijaw Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Preye Oseke. Speaking in Yenagoa on Saturday, NEMA’s Head of Operations, Edo, Dahiru Yusuf, said the distribution was carried out after an assessment of the affected communities. According to him, the federal legislator had forwarded a letter to the agency conveying the catastrophes and the need for his constituents to be assisted with relief materials. Yusuf said, “It is assistance from the Federal Government to flood victims of 2021 from Southern Ijaw communities. “There are communities in that area that were seriously affected, we heard of it and we went for an assessment. Most of them lost food items. So, this is assistance from the Federal Government to cushion what they have lost during the flooding period.” POLL The NEMA official, therefore, urged the beneficiaries to use the relief materials judiciously. The lawmaker’s wife, Bridget Oseke, commended the Federal Government and her husband for reaching out to the people. She said the relief items were given to the Southern Ijaw people affected by the disasters and were not distributed along party lines. Some of the beneficiaries, including Alaere Owei, thanked the government and the lawmaker for the succour, saying it would go a long way to help them.