CHIOMA UMEHA The African Cancer Centre (ACC) has announced the appointment of two financial advisers, PAC Capital Limited and Greenwich Merchant Bank, to raise $40 million for a world-class 350-bed cancer centre. Stating this during a press conference in Lagos, ACC said that the appointment was disclosed during a signing ceremony on Thursday, February 10, 2022. Children As Young As Five Will Be Offered Covid Vaccine In… Why We Organise Health Talks For Companies On Stress Management… However, the organisation said that the cancer centre which would be built along the Ibeju Lekki Corridor in  Lagos State, is in a bid to ensure more Nigerians win the fight against the deadly cancer disease. Speaking at the event, the Chairman of the African Cancer Center, Mr. Adekunle Olumide said, “Today is indeed a milestone in the fairly long history of the ACC project.This has been on the runway for some time waiting to take off. It is with immense pleasure that I welcome you all to the signing ceremony appointing Financial Advisers for the African Cancer Center.’’ Adekunle spoke on the vision of the ACC. “It was against the background of the poor cancer management in Nigeria that led to the establishment of the center by the late Prof. Olufemi Williams, Founder, and Director of the African Cancer Centre. “It was estimated in 2015 that one in every three Nigerians will develop cancer before they die at the age of 80 or more, suggesting that about 60 million Nigerians will die from the deadly disease. Olumide explained that PAC Capital ltd., with vast experience in the Healthcare infrastructure sector, and Greenwich Merchant Bank, with enviable network and versatility, were appointed after rigorous selection process by the center. POLL According to him, the selection identifies the organisations as  the appropriate financial partners  for the project. Also speaking at the event, ACC director, Pastor Ituah Ighadalo, called for collaboration that would ensure quicker achievement of the center’s goal. “We are requesting collaboration because we trust the great reputation of PAC Capital and Greenwich Merchant Bank exhibited over the years within the capital market industry, hospital, and medical industry. “We are hoping to benefit from that reputation and experience to drive this process forward and take us quickly to where we are going.” Mr. Abiodun Olayiwola, Team Lead, Project and Structural Finance, Greenwich Merchant Bank, responded on behalf of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the bank. ASTHMA Gov Emmanuel Harps On Sensitisation On Renal Disease He said that all necessary factors would be put into consideration in order to achieve success on the project. “Factors will be put into consideration. “For instance, we will consider the financial model, what works for the project in terms of cash so the project can be a success for parties involved,’’ he said. On his part, Mr. Humphrey Oriakhi, the MD/CEO of PAC Capital, noted that the project would add value to not just the economy of Lagos State but also that of Nigeria. The event was graced by other notable members of the Board of Director including Prof. Kofi Duncan, Prof. Abayomi Durosimi-Etti, Mr. Bode Emmanuel, Mrs. Folashade Adeogun and Mr. Yomi Badejo-Okusanya. The ACC, which was incorporated in Nigeria in 2012, is expected to be a world-class 350-bed for cancer treatment, research, and training center that will serve Nigeria, the West African sub-region, and beyond. This would be accomplished by improving access to treatment, prevention through early detection and diagnosis, and quality care, through training, cancer education, greater public awareness, and enlightenment.