For every student, generating a trendy and novel research topic for proposal, dissertation, thesis, journal papers and other academic writing could seem a herculean task and then most students tend to give up when they are faced with a supervisor that will only condemn but not providing the needed solution. Deciding on a suitable research topic, starting with your research and completing it is usually not a small bone to chew. Arriving at a research topic that truly captures the research interest of the writer is usually not so easy, and yet, not so cumbersome when you know the right places to look out for it. Writers King LTD can help provide you with free topics. Since research is all about making inquiries into the unknown, finding answers to questions, solutions to problems, increasing awareness on certain issues affecting individuals, the school, the research community as well as the larger society. What this implies is that we can get research ideas from even our environments cum experiences. There are other useful places to look when faced with the task of generating a novel research topic, however; before we go into that, there are some important points we need to keep in mind when generating a research topic, and they are; The literature review section is an important part of every thesis/dissertation, in most cases chapter two of the work is dedicated to the review of the literature. These works of literature to be reviewed are scholarly works done by other researchers in similar or related fields, when you hurriedly pick a topic without doing a background check on the availability of related works of literature, you are surely in for a rough ride. Now that you have known all these silent rules guiding research topic generation, you can go ahead to generate your research topics, to do so; the following are places/sources that can provide useful hints; POLL Don’t forget to use the comment section below for feedback. Are you still confused on how to get research project topics? You can chat Writers King LTD on WhatsApp by clicking HERE