Mercy Ngozi Alu is an award-winning singer, songwriter, author and researcher. Her music has won several awards including the Hollywood and African Prestigious Award (HAPA) for 2021, Best Upcoming Female Artist, Africa. She won the best independent female artist in Africa in November 2021 for the Global Peace Song Awards in the United Nations. She is also a Pan-Africanist and her music reflects Nigerian culture. Speaking to Oyinkan Somorin in this interview, she talks about her music alongside reviving the reading culture in Nigeria. What inspired you to go into the entertainment business? I have had a calling in the aspect of singing and composing songs since early childhood. I have an extensive history in the entertainment industry although I travelled out overseas in my early teen years. But I have been very active in general within the industry as a passion and natural calling. Nigeria’s Capacity To Service Current Stock Of Debt Raises… Private Sector Participation In Agribusiness Will Open Local… At what age did you start singing? I started as a toddler in the village when the older people would stop to listen to me sing for them. I used to lead in traditional dance groups including in primary school. Of course, I sang in church. I later joined the Urbana High School concert choir, and also recorded with Michael Day of the Champaigns, a band out of Northwest Chicago Suburbs, when I moved there for some time. I was invited to Voice of America and hosted by a former host of the Africa English-to-Africa service program. My initially recorded songs were aired in 23 countries. However, due to academia and other aspects of balancing other demands on my time, I really came back to writing and recording music in 2019. Did you encounter any challenges in the music industry? As a female African artist here in Nigeria, people may compare my music to Yemi Alade’s, or those outside Nigeria compare to Lira, the female lead in the South African group Mafikizolo, Yvonne Chaka Chaka, the late Brenda Fassie, etc. I think being unique and soulful, whether I am singing inspirational Afro-pop/Afro-beats or Gospel, requires a bit of independence which is hard to sustain in the industry. I think female African artists have to be strong and well developed to sustain their work so that when working with managers, agents, record labels or others in the industry, the authenticity is not swallowed up trying to please others. As for this challenge, I think I have done well keeping my uniqueness while also blending. I think connecting with the right record label at the right time has also been a challenge for me. For example, as a university student, the BMG music and Def Jam records had both offered a contract, but I was afraid because my parents were not yet on board with the aspect of music then. My producers at the time were Oga Otumala and Grammy-winning producer Slam Jimmy Jones. I don’t know how far I could have gone in music if I had moved in that direction. Finding the right agencies/people to work with, sponsorship for projects etc can be challenging in the industry. POLL What genre of music are you into? My music represents African culture in many ways. So my genre is considered Inspirational Afro-pop and G o s p e l . My voice has been c o m pared to some Afro artists like Tracy Chapman, Brenda Fassie, Tina Turner etc for voice texture. I do write my songs, and even when I redo older classic songs, I modernise them for DJ mixes, and add my original lyrics, beat arrangements, vocals, melodies etc. What can you say about the reading culture in Nigeria? I think the reading culture in Nigeria is actually quite advanced compared to many parts of the world. Nigerians are generally very intelligent, though nowadays things are digital. Most people have cell phones. To improve the reading culture, it would be important to make most reading material available in various formats. For example in digital book format, as audiobooks, in blogs and E-zines and other easily accessible formats. People are more likely to read when they can access material whether in hard copy or soft copy. Singular Act Of Tampering With Aircraft Can’t Make Our Airports… The Igbo Apprenticeship Scheme Has Helped In Reducing… People are also sources of living, modern or historical information. Sitting down to talk briefly or connect with people from different walks of life, being observant, in daily life etc, are all parts of experiential reading and learning. I encourage youth like myself (since youth is classified as 18 to 45 years, I am also a youth) to be confident. When you are happy with yourself and confident, in any situation, your brand will always be relevant. It is not about what you have or don’t have materially. Although we should all continue to aim for progress, we should never lose sight of who we are. Be proud of yourself no matter your condition and you will always attract good things. What are your hobbies? I like taking walks and dancing, I like to write, and of course, I have a passion for singing. I enjoy listening to good music, watching movies, cooking etc. I do volunteer for a few organisations for instance; serving as an ambassador for Global International in alignment with UN objectives in Africa; serving on board of directors in charge of research for the International Association of African Authors and scholars. If you want to change anything in Nigeria, what would that be? As for me, I believe Nigeria is one of the richest countries in the world. We need to love one another and enjoy the security it brings. If people can put aside the extensive greed in Nigeria which makes us feel that anything or anybody from outside Nigeria is better, or richer, it will go a long way to restoring our dignity and reputation. When we prioritise material things and make everything all about money, it makes the environment cold and insecure. But if we can notice what we have, appreciate it, it is easier to live a prosperous life from the inside out. All products, beautiful things that anybody can find anywhere in the world, are in Nigeria. Of course, not everyone can have everything at a time because we still need cleaners, security guards, taxi drivers and people from all walks of life. But everyone should be appreciated in some way, and the people valued by the leaders of the country. However, people should also be content with themselves while hustling for progress, otherwise, too much greed brings its own problems. Many people have big eyes and at times it is hard to satisfy anybody no matter what you do for them. Envy, greed, etc are the order of the day. I would like to see our beautiful people of Nigeria showing more love and kindness to each other. Every other good thing will follow.