YENAGOA –  The national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Iyorchia Ayu, has said good governance and quality service being rendered by governors elected on the platform of the PDP have given Nigerians confidence that the party will in 2023 return to the presidency in Abuja. Ayu stated this in Yenagoa on Monday while inaugurating the Bayelsa State media complex building as part of activities marking the second anniversary in the office of the Governor Douye Diri-led administration. The gigantic edifice, which accommodates the state newspaper corporation, radio and television stations, is named after the first editor of Daily Times newspaper and nationalist, Ernest Sissei Ikoli. FCT Council Polls’ Result Signposts PDP’s Rescue… PDP Victory In FCT Council Polls, Good Omen -Ayu Ayu also received over 5,000 members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and other opposition parties who defected to the PDP in the state. Among APC stalwarts who dumped the party were a former Nigerian ambassador to Venezuela, Felix Oboro; Rear Admiral Thomas Lokoson (retd), a serving member of the state House of Assembly, Charles Daniel, a former Commissioner for Capital City Development, Zougha Konugha. Ayu was joined by the governor of Bayelsa, Douye Diri and other PDP governors including Nyesom Wike (Rivers); Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom); Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta); Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Bala Mohammed (Bauchi); Godwin Obaseki (Edo); Samuel Ortom (Benue) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) to receive the returnees. He said the PDP was proud of its governors because they stay in their various states to work for the people and do not abandon their duty post like some of their APC counterparts. The PDP leader commended Diri for his singular commitment to carry out several developmental projects two years into his first term, noting that it did not take the governor up to a year to find his feet. POLL Ayu said, “The other day, Governor (Seyi) Makinde called me and said he was in Bayelsa commissioning projects. This is how governors of the PDP work. They work for the people. “They don’t leave their states and stay in Abuja as some of the governors of those other parties who abandon their states and become chairman of their party. Our governors are elected with a mandate and that mandate is to work for the people that they govern. For them, governance is service. “My dear brother (Diri), I want to thank you for giving service to the people of Bayelsa. And I want to thank all PDP governors across the country for making the party proud. It is your work that is giving confidence to Nigerians that PDP is coming back.” He further stated that the numerous development projects being carried out by PDP governors six years after the party left power at the centre, had convinced the citizens that the party was determined to serve and unite the country. Receiving the APC stalwarts and their followers, Ayu assured them that they were entitled to all privileges and opportunities as other members of the PDP. 2023: Afegbua Blasts Anti-Zoning Proponents, Says It’s… 2023: Uyo Senatorial District Leaders Call Crave Peace, Demand… He also urged them to work with Diri as leader of the party in the state in order to enable the party win all elections, stressing that last weekend’s victory of the PDP at the FTC elections was a pointer to the repositioning of the party nationally. Speaking separately on behalf of the returnees, Felix Oboro and Charles Daniel, said they and their supporters came back to the PDP because the APC was operated like a one-man show in the state and there was bad management of party affairs. They said they were also compelled by the leadership style and humility of Diri to dump the APC, adding that the governor had shown that he was a man of peace, unity and love for the development of Bayelsa.