ABUJA – A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and a former Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters (House of Representatives), Hon. Abdulrahman Kawu Sumaila, has welcomed the emergence of The Nigerian Movement (TNM). Kawu, an erstwhile member of the House who rose to become a principal officer in both the 6th and 7th Assemblies stated this on Tuesday in a statement he personally signed and issued in Abuja, noting that the political space is rife for such a movement. According to him, whatever would enhance the sustainability of Nigeria’s democracy ahead of the 2023 general elections is a welcome development irrespective of individuals’ political interests. 2023: I Will Run For Governorship In Niger – Malagi Wike Gets Fresh Appointment From PDP, APC Kicks “As a Democrat, I am in support of any movement that will restore democratic principles and install good governance in line with international best practices such as Accountability, Transparency, Inclusiveness, Rule of Law, Effectiveness and Efficiency, Justice and Equity, Free, Fair, Transparent, Acceptable and periodic Elections,” Kawu said. He noted that the backgrounds of those promoting the movement are those of valuable experiences in democratic governance, and must bring such to bare especially as it relates to enthronement of democratic ethos and principles with regards to fairness and the need to obey the rules of the game using internal democracy. He admonished the promoters to understand the essence of power in and out of office, saying that the general good of the people must form the basis for which power is wielded as it is transience in nature. “Notwithstanding, the actors of TNM and their democratic antecedents mean a lot in the realization of the agenda. I am happy most of them are newborn Democrats; they are experiencing the reality of out-of-office life. “The biggest lesson we have learned from this, is when you are in the position of power, try to do justice, respect the rules of the game, allow democracy to work, especially in the area of local governments’ elections, internal democracy in our political parties, consensus building in the decision-making process and respecting the views of others. POLL “Finally, I congratulate them and applaud their commitment and courage on embarking on these novel declarations. Moreover, I am looking forward to a close working relationship to make our country great again,” Kawu added. Recall that the former Kano state governor, Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Buba Galadima, and a host of other prominent politicians announced the birth of the TNM on Monday, saying that it would provide a viable alternative political choice for Nigerians come 2023. The TNM according to analysts may be the much talked about ‘Third Force’ that would seek to upstage the likes of the ruling APC and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in next elections.