At least 50,000 Ukrainians have crossed into neighbouring European countries, including 30,000 in Poland and 17,500 in Moldova, according to the UNHCR, the United Nations refugee agency. It warned numbers are still climbing, with hundreds of cars at the border. The Red Cross in Poland said that early Friday afternoon there was 40km of traffic waiting to enter the country. “The system for checking passports has broken,” a spokesperson said. “There are hundreds of thousands of people waiting.” Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine “Most of the refugees are women and children, only a few men,” a UNHCR spokesperson told The Telegraph. He added: “It is the typical picture we know from other situations worldwide: people, families, with a few belongings in the trunks of the cars, exhausted, anxious, and insecure. At least we see a lot of solidarity here in Poland and colleagues from other countries.” The UN has warned that five million people could be displaced by Russia’s invasion. Food, cash and medical supplies are already running low. “We travelled first to Kyiv from Kharkov, and now we’re in Warsaw,” said one woman interviewed by newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, who had left Ukraine along with her partner and three-year-old son. “We’re on our way to Poznan and don’t have a visa, but we’ll think about that once we feel safe.” POLL The Polish Red Cross said it has around 3,000 volunteers in the country – but added that many new people were signing up to support the Ukrainian refugees. While the Red Cross said the British public have been giving generously to its appeal, the UK Government has come under fire from charities who urged it to welcome thousands of refugees. The Home Office said its priority was British nationals and their families. It came as small groups of Ukrainian army veterans are understood to have set off from the UK, with others planning to undertake the long overland journey in the coming days. NATO Leaders Agree To Bolster Eastern Forces After Invasion Biden Nominates 1st Black Woman To Supreme Court Groups such as the Ukrainian Youth Association and the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain have launched fundraising drives to send humanitarian aid home. A spokesperson for the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain told The Telegraph: “The UK government needs to step up – there won’t going to be thousands of refugees, there will be millions.”