…Says Nigeria Has Been Seriously Divided By Political Interest ABUJA – As the 2023 general elections draw nearer, a group under the aegis of the Tambuwal Consolidation Team (TCT), has declared that Aminu Tambuwal Presidency will restore the sense of oneness, patriotism and unity in Nigeria. The group has also raised the alarm that Nigeria has been seriously divided by political forces/interests, who are manipulating and exploiting the nation’s faultlines for their interests. 2023: Bala Mohammed Visits Obasanjo, Says APC Zoning No Threat… 2023: Over 10,000 supporters Hold Solidarity Rally For Umahi… The group, in a statement on Wednesday by its National Coordinator, Buhari Dasuki and National Secretary, Fabian Okoye, emphatically said that the country is in urgent need of a new direction. TCT added that Nigeria needs a focused, innovative and decisive leader to lead the country to the path of sustainable development, warning that desperate moves by the political forces/interests, may lead to a divided Nigeria if not arrested. The TCT vowed that it will deploy all its energy, time and resources to reach out to Nigerians to key into the Tambuwal 2023 Project. The group pointed out that it is a project that is so critical to Nigeria’s rediscovery and regeneration. The group said: “Our youths are frustrated, afraid of the future and feeling betrayed by the political leaders. POLL “The leadership at the national level has been uninspiring, indecisive and lacking strategic thinking and focus. “Nigeria is in urgent need of a new direction; Nigeria needs a focused, innovative and decisive leader to steady the country and place it on the path of sustainable development.” Nigerians, the TCT advised, must not miss this opportunity to enthrone a patriotic, Pan-Nigerian and cosmopolitan President to commence the task of returning Nigeria to the path of sustainable peace, progress and development. “We can confidently state that he (Tambuwal) embodies all the qualities we need in a Nigerian President for this challenging time. “Governor Tambuwal has traversed the legislative and executive policy spaces. He led the House of Representatives as Speaker at a very turbulent period in the history of Nigeria. 2023: If You Don’t Vote, You Lose Right To Complain, Okowa Tells… 2023: Older Generation Refusing To Leave Stage For Youths… “He restored the prestige of the Legislature and was responsive for the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians. “His legislative experience will come in handy if he becomes President. “We are in an emergency. The President must work closely with the National Assembly to quicken the resolution of our key national challenges. Time is not on our side. “Governor Tambuwal is a steady hand. He has shown that he is capable of providing strong, progressive and steadfast leadership. His record in the House of Representatives is unassailable. “Governor Tambuwal is an acclaimed bridge builder and unapologetic unifier. He is in a good position to deploy his skills and warm disposition to bring our people together. “Nigeria has never been this divided. Political forces/interests have been manipulating and exploiting our faultlines for their interests.”