ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Malam Muhammad Musa Bello said the loyalty and patriotism of service personnel must be sustained and strengthened. While appealing to all Nigerians to uphold and project the unity of the country. He made this known at the Passing Out Parade of the Short Service Course 46 (Army) at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), commended the resilience and steadfastness of the Nigerian personnel in the Armed Forces for their professionalism and bravery in tackling the menace of terrorism, insurgency and armed banditry in the North East and North West zones as well as herders/farmers conflict, kidnapping in some parts of the country. 2022: House Of Reps Hopeful, Akinwole Akinwale, Tasks Nigerians… Betsy Obaseki, Stakeholders Push For Sustained Advocacy Against… The Minister who was represented at the occasion by the Special Assistant to the Minister of the on Youths Matters, Isaac David also charged the FCT indigenes who newly graduated at direct short service course in Kaduna State, to implore everything at their disposal to turn the service to objectivity, thoroughness, commitment and patriotism to the country. The FCT indigenes who participated in the church course include A . M. Hayatu FCT, BE Zaki FCT, A Salisu FCT, L Yakubu FCT, AO Akuh FCT and M. Okpare FCT. According to him, “In particular, the FCT has so far in partnership with the military and other security agencies improved the security situation in the Territory against serious crimes, especially in the satellite towns where the activities of criminals, especially kidnappers have become a serious source for concern in recent times. “The minister’s effort is in line to rid the city of miscreants who harass residents and carry out criminal activities within residential areas. “We are in a situation where everyone needs to support the military and other security agencies to fight out a common enemy. Insurgency, kidnapping and other criminal activities do not know tribe or religion. POLL “And we must avoid utterances that are targeted at weakening our unity and focused more on words that will strengthen our democratic framework.”