BAUCHI – The Arewa Support group has endorsed Senator George Akume for the position of National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress(APC), saying that the party needs a leader whose slate is free of all corruption allegations. The National Chairman of the group Joseph Maiwada stated this in Bauchi shortly after their meeting. He advised the All Progressive Congress (APC) to elect Senator George Akume as its national chairman because of his track record of integrity, pointing out that he is one of the few among the aspirants that have no corruption allegations against his name. Group To Hold Digital Acquisition Training Programme To Check… 2023: Group Asks Emefiele To Run For Presidency ” If a person with corruption allegations is elected, one day the anti-graft agencies may pick him at the national secretariat of the party and become a national disgrace and embarrassmentto the party, but if a person that is free from corrupt allegations is elected, the integrity of the party will remain intact. Senator Akume will ensure justice, fairness among APC members” “We have gone far in canvassing votes for the serving Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs to become the next national chairman of the party. He has all it takes to reform the party and address all the internal problems bedeviling the party. Akume is a man of the people, a politician who knows his worth and is friendly to everyone across the country” he said On his part, the North-East Zonal Secretary of the group, Aisami Maimato, said that Akume, who started his career as a civil servant, a two-term Governor of Benue State, a three-term Senator, and now Minister is the right candidate to lead the APC to it’s desired position of power. He described Akume as a child of destiny that has been tested and trusted both at the grassroots and State levels to deliver the mandate of APC. POLL “We are calling on all APC card-carrying members across the country to support George Akume ahead of the 2022 APC National Convention so that he will continue to bring more innovative ideas for the benefit of the party and Nigerians,” he said.