…Says It Will Not Be Acceptable To Conduct 2023 General Elections With Electoral Law ABUJA – The Chairman-elect, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Christopher Zakka, has called in President Muhammadu Buhari to sign into law the amended Electoral Bill. While adding that, it will not be acceptable to conduct the 2023 general election with the electoral law left behind by the past administration since 2015. INEC Working To Improve BVAS – Yakubu Woman Kidnaps Five Children In Rivers Zakka made this call on Tuesday in Abuja while addressing newsmen on the just concluded FCT Area Council Elections, saying, the call became necessary to ensure a free, fair and credible general election in 2023. He stated that the current generation of Nigerians most especially the youths require an electoral law that can stand the test of time in the area of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). He said, “The electronic transmission of result which is included in the newly amended electoral Bill by the National Assembly would give credence to next year’s general election hence the need for the President to give his assent to the Bill. “The manual collation of result in the past has resulted to rigging in so many ways, therefore the introduction of electronic transmission of result is a welcome development towards the emergence of credible leaders at all levels in the forthcoming general election. “Nigerians most especially the youths to support the new electoral amendment Bill passed by both chambers of the National Assembly for the overall development of the country,” he noted. POLL Zakka commended President Muhammadu Buhari, Minister of the FCT, INEC and other agencies for ensuring a free, fair and credible Chairmanship and Councillorship Election in the Area Councils. He, however, thanked residents of the AMAC for giving him the mandate to pilot the affairs of the Council for the next three years. According to him, he will give priority to projects such as rural water supply, electricity, education, roads, health and other developmental programmes that will improve the well being of people of Abuja Municipality most especially at the grassroots. He solicited the support of the residents to enable him to succeed in his developmental programmes.