A few days after flight restriction was lifted between Nigeria and United Arab Emirates (AUE), the Nigerian sole carrier on the Middle East route, Air Peace said it would resume flight services to the route on March 1, 2022. A statement by the management of the airline on Friday stated that Lagos-Dubai-Lagos flights would operate three days weekly from any of its domestic routes through its Lagos hub. However, unlike the Sharjah destination in the past, the airline said it would fly directly to Dubai International Airport and commended the Federal Government for playing the key role in the resumption of the airline to the UAE. Aisha Buhari, Dolapo Osinbajo, Ifeanyi Uba, Nollywood Stars Join… Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election “We are happy to inform the flying public that in tandem with our commitment to providing more flight connectivity and meeting the air travel needs of Nigerians, we are restarting our UAE operations, but with Dubai as the destination and not Sharjah. We abundantly appreciate the vital role played by the Nigerian Government in making this possible.” Air Peace has been operating scheduled commercial flights into the UAE since July, 2019, but suspended the route after the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic and the diplomatic row between Nigeria and UAE in 2021. During the diplomatic row, the UAE Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) had offered Air Peace seven weekly frequencies to Dubai, rather than the Sharjah it was hitherto flying into. Recall that the Federal Government had earlier in the week given approval for UAE to resume flight operations to Nigeria. A letter addressed to His Excellency, Saif Mohammed Al Suwaid, Director General, General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA), UAE said that the approval was sequel to the review and acceptance of the ‘Safety Decision 2021-02 Issue 24’ as released by the authority. POLL The letter stated that the Minister of Aviation has also approved the reinstatement of Emirates Airlines Winter Schedule with immediate effect. The letter, dated February 1, 2022, with the reference: NCAA/DG/CCAA/20/16/119 and made available to journalists, was signed by Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The letter also informed the GCAA that Nigerian carrier, Air Peace has submitted its request to UAE authorities for resumption of scheduled passenger flights between the two countries effective March 1, 2022. Also, Emirates Airlines had said it would stage a return to Nigeria on Saturday, February 5, 2022, but with a proviso that passengers traveling to Dubai would undergo an additional Covid-19 test and remain in self-quarantine until the results of the test are received. The airline said it would operate in Abuja with EK 785 and 786. EK 785 would depart Dubai at 1100hrs, arriving in Abuja at 1540hrs. The return flight, EK 786 will take off from Abuja at 1900, arriving in Dubai at 0435hrs the next day. Police Arrest 25 Suspected Cultists In Delta AFAN Commends Buhari Administration On Strides Recorded In Agric… Emirates flight EK 783 to Lagos would depart Dubai at 1030hrs, arriving in Lagos at 1540hrs, the airline said. The return flight EK 784 would depart Lagos at 1810hrs, arriving in Dubai at 0415hrs the next day. All passengers traveling from Nigeria with Dubai as their final destination require a 48 hour PCR test, the airline added. Meanwhile, Air Peace said it would commence scheduled flights to Kinshasha in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Malabo in Equatorial Guinea, to expand its footprints in West Africa and offer the flying public more network options. According to the airline, the route would commence before the end of Quarter One (Q1) of 2022. It also said that Niamey flights would operate from Abuja and Kano on Tuesdays, Fridays, and Sundays with the Hopper jets.