ABUJA – Sokoto state government on Saturday disclosed that it is in touch with its medical students studying in Ukraine. The Commissioner of Higher Education, Professor Bashir Garba, explained this to a team of journalists, following the increasing tension between Russia and Ukraine. The team of journalists were in Sokoto state to inspect legacy projects initiated by Governor Aminu Tambuwal-led administration. Russian-Ukrainian Crisis: Putin Ready For Negotiation With… Nigerian Embassy In Ukraine Issues Travel Advice To Citizens,… The Commissioner, who said that the Sokoto state government, is monitoring the situation as it concerns the safety of its about 100 students studying in the Eastern European country, added that the students of Sokoto state origin, on the scholarship of the state government are studying medicine in Ukraine. Since the outbreak of the crisis between Russia and Ukraine, Professor Garba explained that the state government is working with the federal government to ensure the safety of the students. Garba said: “We are monitoring the crisis and the federal government also is looking at the situation and when they need to evacuate Nigerians, they will do so. Evacuation is the federal government’s responsibility and I think they are on it. “So far, we are in touch with them and not a single person, not even one of them has withdrawn from the program. They are doing well. “In order to enhance the capacity of what is already on the ground, the governor decided to send a number of students outside the country to study Medicine and Para-Medical programs. In Ukraine alone, we have about 100 students studying medicine and we have 200 in India studying other medical-related courses and we have others in different countries.” POLL He further explained that “some just entered and some have started graduating, especially those in India. Those that are studying Medicine in Ukraine, I think are in their second or third year or about completing their second year. And we have some that graduated from Uganda, Ghana and other places. “Just recently, we went to Sudan to witness the graduation ceremony of about 46 medical graduates, with degrees in medicine. The governor himself went to witness it as a way of encouraging others who have not graduated in those universities.”