Senator Paulinus Igwe Nwagu, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), represented Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone between 2011 and 2015. In this interview with SAMSON NWAFOR, he speaks on his intention to recontest the 2023 governorship of Ebonyi State on the platform of the PDP, issue of zoning and the chances of his party. Excerpts: Preparation for the 2023 general elections has kicked off. Are you going to contest for any political office? Definitely, I will be running for the governorship seat of the State, come 2023, because I don’t think anybody has born a child for me to be carrying. I cannot be a Nanny at this stage. As a politician, you should expect me to run, except you see me as somebody who does not have the capacity, it’s a different thing. Because, if I tell you I’m not running, that means I should go and be carrying baby at home. But what then becomes the fate of the people who want my service in 2023? 2023: Why Tambuwal Is PDP’s Best Bet For Presidency… 2022: We Can’t Form Alliance With You, Aggrieved PDP, APC … Is it true that Ebonyi has a Charter of Equity that spelt out how governorship seat of the State should rotate among the three senatorial zones? After this interview, you will be able to know more about other people’s argument. As far as I’m concerned and as far as I know, we are last set of people that signed the document that Late Head of State, Sani Abacha signed for the creation of Ebonyi State. I was a local government Council leader. The council Chairman and myself signed that document. And at the end of the day, Ebonyi was created in 1996. If my signature was in the application for the creation of Ebonyi State, does it make sense to you or to me, that I will not also be part of those who signed the charter of Equity? Is a big question to the people who are talking about Charter of Equity. But we have to distinguish charter of Equity and Zone. We have three senatorial zones and I also know that you need to talk about zone before you talk about charter of Equity. Supposing, if we are talking about Zone, and we said, let North take first. Let’s assume we said that, without conceding that North should take first; which of the people or LGA in the North will take first? It should be Izzi. If we talk about Central Zone, which people or LGA will take first? It should be Ezza people. If we talk about Ebonyi South Zone, which people or LGA should take first? It should be Afikpo people. Because Izzi has three LGAs, Ezza has two LGAs and Afikpo has two LGAs. I think that settles the issue of Equity. Now, if we are talking about Zone and we don’t want to add Equity, it is a different; but if we are talking about Zone and talking of Equity, he who goes to equity must go with clean hands. And I want to tell you, if we discussed the issue of rotation, is Izhiamgbo supposed to take first before Izzi in the North? The answer is, no. But Izhiamgbo man became the first Governor of this State. Why? It was the military that lured the man to us, because the State Military Administrator, Walter Feghabor, chose him as his then Commissioner to be the Governor of the State and we allowed it. POLL After Sam Egwu’s eight years, about 16 persons contested that election in 2007. If we are talking about Equity why will you jump Ezza and went to Ikwo to pick someone? And the person so picked if he was allowed to compete with others, would have come behind other 15 contestants. He would have been the last,and they are talking about Equity. That’s Sam Egwu and Martin Elechi for you. When they were chosen to govern the State, why didn’t they say, no, don’t give to me, Ezza people are the eldest in the State, let’s give to them. And I know that Prominent Ezza people contested the elections but they were sidelined. Now, going to Ebonyi South zone, Mr Elechi decided to use military mentality to choose his successor, instead of calling the people of Ebonyi State to ask them, how do we do it? He didn’t do that. After the people in his government collected money from the Minister of Health, Professor Onyebuchi Chukwu, who is not a politician and governor Elechi just called a meeting and said, “this is my anointed person.” This is a democracy, we are not in a military rule again. Even the military will ask questions. In law, natural justice is above every other law. He didn’t do that. He just handpicked the Minister without consulting the people of the State, because his boys siphoned the man. Only Ambassador Ogbuewu and I opposed Elechi. I was a Senator then, he didn’t care to invite me and even when he knew I was interested in contesting the governorship seat. I was interested then, because there was nothing like discussed Charter of Equity. I’m not a small boy. I have been in politics for 36 years, from era of NPN till date. Nobody either in proxy has ever discussed the issue of charter of Equity in Ebonyi State till today. It’s because Sam Egwu wants to go back to the Senate that’s why he is talking about Charter of Equity. And he knew that if Equity is to be discussed, he can’t go back to the Senate. Egwu is feeling that they are in the position now and want to arm twist every other person to give to Izzi. Why didn’t he say that time he was chosen from Ebonyi North, “No, we are not the eldest in the zone, let’s concede it to Izzi people.” After his Tenure as a governor, he became Minister and thereafter was drafted again to the Senate. Why didn’t he ask Izzi people to take Senate? This is the third time Ohaukwu people are going for Senate. Why don’t you give to Izzi people and they are talking about Equity? Does Equity means that you go to the Senate four time and the Izzi people who have the majority in that Zone will only go twice? So, he is deceiving the Izzi people. So, quote me anywhere, there is nothing as Charter of Equity in Ebonyi State. If you come to Ebonyi State, Ezza people form the majority and the eldest clan in the State, what offense have we committed that we cannot be the Governor of the State? When the issue of location of where the capital of the State will be, Ezza was first considered,because they wanted it to be at the centre, but the issue of structure made Ezza people to be denied. The Afikpo was also considered for the location of the capital city, but eventually, Abakaliki was chosen, which is Izzi land. Courtesy demands that Izzi people should allow Ezza people to take the governorship seat first. They should take last, based on Equity. Smear Campaign War Against Emefiele Exposed, Middle Belt Forum… A’Ibom Guber: Gov Emmanuel’s Successor Was Anointed… Whatdo youpropose thatshouldbe done to resolve this issue of power rotation? Since the people that have been leading the State for the past 20 years could not sit down and say, let’s us discuss this issue. Because the charter of Equity and Zoning are burning and germane issues, as far as politics is concerned. But let me tell you the issue of charter of Equity or zoning is dead on arrival as far as constitution of this country is concerned. It’s unconstitutional and undemocratic. You have the right to participate in every election so long as you are qualified and meets the requirements. If we are talking about morality, it’s a different thing, but in the case of Ebonyi, there is no morality all along. If Izzi man will sit down and Izhiamgbo man will take the governorship of the State first; Ezza man will sit down, Ikwo man will take first and Afikpo man will sit down, Uburu man will take first, is there any morality at all? Don’t we have elder and age-grade again? Equity or morality means that the eldest should be allowed to take first. Why didn’t they come out then to discuss this issue, knowing full well it has never been discussed or written anywhere? So, since those that have been leading the state failed to come together to discuss how this State that was given to us will benefit all of us, in terms of who gets what, how, where and when, then I believe that if we elect a person that has the capacity and wisdom as our next Governor, he will definitely do that. But for now, you cannot talk about Equity or Zoning. If we are talking about rotation, good and fine. It has gone round and I want to commend Ebonyi South people who said, Abakaliki bloc should produce the next Governor. They are correct, because the people who were supposed to do that job didn’t do it and they are seeing it that they have failed. You can’t be cheating majority to that extent. That’s why they have to push it to the North and Central zones and said they should go and produce the Governor and anybody from central or north has the right to contest. If you don’t want to contest, it’s a different thing. After all, during the first governorship election in 1999, Andrew Nwankwo contested election and he is from North; Professor Ekeh also from the North contested, Sam Egwu contested from the North; Mr Nwagu Onele contest from the Central; From Ebonyi South, Okoh Isu contested who was deputy Governor then; Professor Abara also contested, Ogbonnaya Onu contested on the platform of ANPP. How then do you measure charter of Equity or do you want to tell me that the former Governor of old Abia State,Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, is aware of anything as charter of Equity when he contested and he went ahead to contest? So, a discussion will have to be done on the issue of equity and zoning. I’m sure that today, we don’t have elders’ advisory council in the State. We don’t have. A campaign organization is not advisory council. What we have today is Divine Mandate Elders which is the creation of the present Governor. We don’t have elders council of this State, which will be devoid of political affiliation. These are the king makers and once they decided, they have decided. And until we have that council, we cannot talk about Charter of Equity. Next government will have to do it so that charter of Equity will be written and signed.