MAKURDI – The Mata People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Grassroots Chieftains in Ushongo Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue state has slammed Bemgba Iortyom, State Publicity Secretary of the PDP for warning it, and groups alike to desist from endorsing aspirants in the state. The group further took a swipe at Iortyom, who is also from Mata for his claim, not to know the persons who endorsed the governorship aspiration of Terwase Orbunde, former Chief of Staff (CoS) to Governor Samuel Ortom and also declaring the group as non-existent. In a statement signed by David Ikyase, spokesman for the group and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Sunday, the group argued that their endorsement of Orbunde does not contravene any section of the PDP constitution, but that it was a means of making robust the political space. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Diri Bags Grand Ambassador Of Ijaw Youths Award He explained that, “The endorsement was purely the expression of our personal and group’s support for the governorship ambition of Hon. Terwase Orbunde. We have the Constitutional right of freedom of association and that of expression. “Even if we had breached any party statute, our thinking is that the matter could have been resolved in-house without resorting to the press. But since Mr Iortyom chose the public domain for discourse on the matter, here we go. “We expect commendation from the party hierarchy for deepening the democratic process, rather than the censure we received from the state Publicity Scribe. “We were taken aback when we read a statement signed by Mr. Iortyom, warning groups, including ours, to steer clear of endorsements. The surprise element hit us hard for several reasons. His statement had the subtitle, “No such body in existence in Benue PDP.” “Mr. Iortyom is a Mata son from Mbagba, one of the five council wards that make up the State constituency. He personally knows all the five people who came for the Orbunde endorsement from his ward and most of the 20 from the other four wards. He cannot, in good conscience, say that such a group is non-existent. POLL “Still, the endorsement document he complained about bears the photographs and names of all of us who signed. The fact that all of us who signed are card carrying members of the PDP from the five council wards of Mata State Constituency remains incontrovertible. “Our group does not need to be a standing or registered one, it was formed for the specified purpose. At his level, Mr Iortyom ought to know that endorsement is part and parcel of the democratic process. “That explains why he could not cite any part of the PDP Constitution, guideline or code of conduct that our endorsement of Hon. Terwase Orbunde, the former Chief of Staff to the Governor, had breached. “Moreover, no part of the document he complained about hinted, even vaguely, that the endorsement was done on behalf of the formal structure of the PDP at the ward, local government or state level.” Ikyase further observed that, “For Mr. Iortyom’s information, before embarking on the endorsement trip, we duly informed the formal PDP party structure at our ward level and the Ushongo local government party chairman. 2023 Elections: Women Group (NCWSN) Clamour For Mass… APC Chieftain, Alao Faults Makinde’s Peace Talks With Area… “If our son, the PDP State Publicity Secretary, were not too preoccupied with undergraduate studies in law in addition to other party functions, he would have had time to have read or studied the endorsement process in civilized democracies and would have saved himself the disdain he brought upon his office with the statement. “We also expect robust debate on the issues we raised justifying the Orbunde guber aspiration endorsement so that PDP members and eventually the electorate, could be better educated to make a well informed choice from the array of governorship aspirants. “I do not wish to contemplate that Mr. Iortyom wishes to intimidate, cajole and trample upon our democratic rights. “Let me stress that I, as the leader and spokesman of the group has held grassroots elective political office as councilor and also served as leader of Ushongo legislature. I hope that I shall not be compelled to make a recourse to the law in protection of mine and my associates’ democratic constitutional rights”, he warned. End.