OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA Due to limited land space in our major cities and poor town planning techniques, most homes, streets, and roads networks are devoid of car parking spaces or proper lay-bys (bus stops), leading to indiscriminate parking and leaving streets clogged with motor vehicles. In a city like Lagos, you are bound to find a large number of vehicles being parked on the roadside, or on the walkways, while others have to make do with double parking, blocking on-coming vehicles and causing traffic jams, especially at peak hours. Is A Nigerian Pharmaceutical Giant Among The Five In Africa WHO… MTV Base Partners African Union, Dubai Expo For Africa Honour… Parking and traffic congestion are synonymous with each other because failure to meet parking demands of people in urban centres leads to on-street parking, resulting in traffic congestion. According to TP Aboyade Ogundana, a senior partner with an architectural firm based in Lagos, “Traffic congestion is a condition on road networks that occurs as use increases, and is characterized by slower speeds, longer trip times, and increased vehicular queuing. The availability of less space in urban areas has increased demand for parking space especially in central business areas like Lagos Island, Ikeja, Oshodi, and other places. “Inadequate off-street parking in most of our urban centers has metamorphosed to the problem of on-street parking coupled with inadequate traffic management commonly around major markets and markets located by bus-stops and major junctions,” Ogundana added. He explained further that there are two forms of street parking, official and non-official parking. The official on-street parking includes bank car parks, administrative car parks, religion car parks, office car parks, and recreational car parks and median car parks. However, non-official on-street parking includes commercial parks, shopping parks, markets, etc. Sometime in December 2019, the Lagos State Government expressed it displeasure over the activities of event centres for their care free attitude regarding the provision of enough parking spaces for the number of guests expected at their event places, knowing fully well the extra guest not envisaged in their plan will have to park their vehicles somewhere, which is likely going to be on the streets. POLL The state therefore cautioned operators of these centres, property owners, religious centres and other places of attraction to desist from compounding traffic gridlock on roads around their locations. Frederic Oladeinde, said while expressing the displeasure of the state then that, ‘’Henceforth, any social event where the number of expected visitors exceeds 50, organizers of such event must notify the General Manager of LASTMA in advance, especially, if it is perceived that their property would not accommodate large numbers of vehicles that may be brought by their guests. “The LASTMA authority will be on hand to advise them on what to do rather than allowing their visitors to block roads as this will attract stiffer penalties if caught. “The state government will no longer condone parking of vehicles on the roadside, failure of the operators/ property owners to make provision for adequate parking space for their guests.” He added. He said that the gridlock was caused by motorists who could not secure parking space in the venues of their social gathering and resorted to parking their vehicles on the roadsides, causing permanent traffic gridlocks. Russia-Ukraine Conflict Could Drive Us Inflation To 10% War In Ukraine Sparks Panic Buying At Polish Fuel Stations Mr Oladeinde warned that any commercial event centre, place of worship, night club/lounge, or private property owners caught on account of illegal blockage of roads by their attendants would be closed until their owners paid the stipulated fines. He said vehicles towed for infraction or unlawful parking offences will not be released until the corresponding amount is paid. The question on the lips of many Lagosians however is; what has changed since the reading of that riot act in 2019? It is obvious that much has not really changed as road users are bound to bear the brunt of delays in traffic gridlocks for every event held at events centres in the state at any given day it is taking place. The most annoying part is that these event centres are springing up every day at some of the most obscure places on our streets, said Tolu Ajinna, a seamstress that has her shop around the Abule Egba area of Lagos. The failure of the state government to effectively address the malaise in the past could be responsible for the creation of the Lagos State Parking Authority, LASPA, to frontally address the issue. The agency some few ago issued a press release soliciting the support of the motoring public to tackle the recurrent traffic gridlocks generated by on-street parking in the state. According to the press release, the Lagos State Parking Authority (LASPA) is soliciting for support from the citizens of Lagos State in its quest to regulate all forms of illegal parking which impedes on free flow of traffic and thus deliver a world class parking scheme for its citizenry. Mrs. Adebisi Adelabu, the General Manager of the agency, noted that parking problems have been one of the thorniest issues affecting the economy and the environment adding that the State Government can no longer fold its hands, hence the need for an holistic approach towards regulating the cause effects. The LASPA GM further explained that in line with the first pillar of the THEME’S Agenda of which Traffic Management and Ttransportation is key, parking space issues needed to be addressed to reduce travel time impeded upon by traffic and make the State a 21st century running economy for its residents in the short and long term. Adelabu maintained that the imbalance between parking demand and parking supply has been the main reason for the metropolis’ unregularised parking problems contributing to traffic congestion, traffic accidents, and environmental pollution which the agency is fervently poised to address. Highlighting the agency’s statutory responsibilities further, the LASPA GM also stated that the agency is optimizing the On and Off street parking supplies, Setback options, registration of existing private parks operators to maximise urban public spaces in finding lasting solutions to parking induced traffic. She also revealed that while the State Government is building and transforming the parking infrastructures within the metropolis, there is the need for provision of available real time parking information for city users planning to improve the overall quality of the parking system in the state. While urging Lagosians to shun any act of indiscriminate parking which contributes greatly to traffic congestion, the Parking Authority GM call on all park operators (commercial and non-commercial) to register with the agency for operating permit, adding that enforcement which was earlier slated for February, 2022 has been shifted to 1st March, 2022 to give room for further conformity and adherence. According to research published in a Town planners Journal, it is observed that most of the built-up areas of the state are built without designated areas for parking while the new structural adjustments going on in most areas are also not doing much to address the problem for residents’ car parks; even schools being constructed are without regards for car parks and recreational spaces. Thus, what we now have is a situation where residents now park on either side of the roads. While some of the landlords or developers do not have enough parking spaces on their building plans, some have converted areas marked for parking to rows of shops with total disregard for town planning laws. “It is so bad that some have even converted their residential houses to office complexes with their clients parking on the roads, thereby depriving other road users’ access. Presently, new estates are springing up daily across the State without addressing the same issue while developers are pulling down old houses daily at key locations in the State. In most business districts in the State, skyscrapers are coming up without adequate or no car parks. The research added that this unwholesome habit is now the order of the day, resulting in pedestrians struggling with vehicles to move on the narrow paths remaining on those roads after residents have used major sections of the roads as car parks. This situation has severally resulted in accidents and untold hardship for pedestrians and commuters alike. If the traffic situation in the state is to improve for the better, the issue of illegal parking must be fully addressed. A recent study conducted by the Lagos State Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, LAMATA, has shown that a major cause of traffic jams in the metropolis is street parking. The study further revealed that no fewer than 10 vehicles vied for parking spaces every 10 seconds on every street in the state. This has often left all streets clogged with motor vehicles, with many being parked by the roadside, or on the walkways, while others make do with double parking, blocking on-coming vehicles, leading to traffic jams, especially at the peak hours. It has, therefore, become imperative for the State government to come up with a policy aimed at addressing street parking spaces in the State. The policy, which would be in line with global best practices, would make it mandatory for developers and property owners especially in commercial premises to address the issue of parking through the provision of adequate parking spaces, especially for all commercial buildings. The policy would help to consolidate the state’s public sector transport management system. Places such as event centres, hotels, restaurants, mosques, residential areas, churches, central business districts, inner streets, among others should be made to buy into the policy. The policy could be made sustainable through development of pertinent infrastructure, such as on-street and off-street, multi floor parking lots as well as strict enforcement of the policy via officials appointed by the Ministry of Transportation Parking is an integral component of the transport system. It plays a crucial role in the management of traffic and congestion. The road transport operation is a circulatory system that must be a continuous process and any infringement at any point along the line will definitely affect the whole system and hinder its effectiveness. Therefore, parking facilities are essential in order to allow the flow of traffic. Since parking challenges are no longer confined to the city centers, the challenges now extend throughout the urban region.