A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Leader of the South-West Professionals in the diaspora, Chief Segun Ajibulu, has admonished Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to distance himself from the alleged plot to pith him against his principal and political benefactor, Asiwaju Bola  Ahmed Tinubu on the 2023 Presidency. Ajibulu, in a chat with DAILY INDEPENDENT, also admonished Osinbajo to act like a true man of God and loyal lieutenant by embracing the political aspiration of his master, Asiwaju Tinubu. The APC stalwart warned that the Vice President might run into trouble waters and get messed up politically in Yorubaland if he listens to some funny characters pushing him against Tinubu. 2023: We’re Already Preparing Osinbanjo For Presidency… 2023: Avoid Using Our Children, Youths For Political Gains,… Chief Ajibulu, who is part of Public Relations of a diaspora platform christened Bola Ahmed Tinubu Solidarity Vanguard (BATS-V) posited that God would Minister to Osinbajo to do the right thing on Tinubu in 2023. According to him, the only way for the South-West to demonstrate its commitment and seriousness at getting the Presidential ticket is to present a single candidate. The pro-Tinubu activist alleged that some desperate politicians who are seeking political relevance were behind the plot to cause confusion in the Tinubu political family. “I hope and pray that Osinbajo will live above the board on this, Osinbajo should not listen to those who want to mess him up politically and in Yorubaland. I hope at the end of the day, Osinbajo will embrace his master. What I am praying for is to have one candidate from Yorubaland,” Ajibulu said. Speaking further, Ajibulu said: “I learnt some people are also rooting for Osinbajo to be President and unfortunately one of my friends is leading this move. Well, all I know is that Osinbajo is more intelligent and I don’t think he will allow anybody to pit him against his benefactor. You don’t bite the finger that feeds you. As a Minister, I am sure God will Minister to Osinbajo to do the right thing on Tinubu. POLL “Even those who are pushing Osinbajo to run, what structure does he have? Some people might be deceiving him, but I don’t think he will deceive himself on this. Nobody knew Osinbajo before Asiwaju brought him to the limelight in politics. But some people who want to take Osinbajo’s money or those who feel they cannot be relevant in Tinubu’s camp, are the people pushing him to confront his principal.” On the recent Tinubu’s declaration of Interest for the  Presidency, Ajibulu described it as a long-awaited and well come development in the Progressives’ fold. “We received the report of the declaration of his intent with joy. In fact, it is long-awaited. Some people have been foot-dragging on organizing Convention. It appears APC is not even ready to do the convention. So, Tinubu made his intention to run for the presidency known at the right time. And he has continued with the consultations. “We have also stepped up our activities in the diaspora and the responses have been overwhelming. We are also relating with our people at home. We are also preparing for whatever model of primaries that would be adopted either direct or delegates system,” Ajibulu said. Chief Ajibulu, however, lampooned some Afenifere leaders who had made Tinubu their subject of attack by working against his presidential ambition. 2023: Abdulsalam Cautions Politicians, Youths Against… 2023: Atiku Dumps Peter Obi, Select Wike As His Running Mate “I think the Afenifere elders should not be taken seriously anymore. This is what they did during the era of late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, they also did the same to late Chief MKO Abiola. Even some of these Afenifere leaders worked against Abiola. They are coming up again with all kinds of fictitious narratives. It cannot work. They cant stand in the way of Tinubu. “You know many of them who predicted that President Muhammadu Buhari would not last six months in office is dead now. President Buhari is still there looking fresher, they are not God. Tinubu only had knee surgery and they are all crying wolf. Anybody can fall sick at any time. Even all these people that are talking rubbish now are living with worse health issues. For us, we are focused and determined about the 2023 and Tinubu, by the special grace will be president of Nigeria,” Ajibulu predicted.