BENIN – Edo State Government and the First Lady Mrs Betsy Obaseki are embarking on a Free Medical Mission in collaboration with the Association of Nigerian Physicians in America (ANPA), to carry out diverse medical treatments, including surgeries for Edo residents. The programme which is expected to last two weeks is billed to hold from April 23 to May 5, 2022. Prof. Obehi Akoria, Edo State Commissioner for Health disclosed this when she accompanied Her Excellency Betsy Obaseki on an inspection tour of the Primary Health Centres in Edo South Senatorial District designated for the exercise. NHIS Resolves Tariff Dispute Between Healthcare Providers, HMOs APC Chides Edo Govt. Over Plan To Demolish Benin Central… According to the Commissioner of Health, “for the first time in the forty-year history of ANPA, they are working with us through the Primary Health Care Gateway, and so Her Excellency is visiting the Primary Health Centres that will be used to provide free Healthcare for citizens under the auspices of the “ANPA Edo State Project.” “They are coming with a team of specialists that include Neurosurgeons, Neurologists, Cardiologist, Endocrinologists, Nephrologists, Pharmacists and Paediatricians including Neonatologists. While explaining that this is not intended to be a one-off event, the Commissioner said “they are going to also do what we call Telemedicine. “What they are going to establish is that going forward, the patients that they are going to see will be followed up remotely. So from their various centres in the United States, each of them is volunteering to work with us once a week to review these patients and see how we can extend the care to others in the State. Commenting on the ongoing plans for the Primary Health Centres in the State, the Health Commissioner said “I was here at the Oredo Primary Health Centre at about 8:15 this morning and there were already patients waiting. POLL “The Doctor we have here for example is more than 20 years post-graduation and we have posted senior doctors across many PHCs in the State. We are seeing very senior nurses here in addition to community health workers. “The Governor has decided that our Primary Health Centres are going to be like first-class outpatient clinics in a big general hospital so that rather than everybody moving to the centre and queuing up endlessly for care, you and I can get care as close as possible to where we live and work. “And I remember one thing he said which has become our catchphrase ‘if it is not good enough for me, it cannot be good enough for Edo people’. So what we are trying to do right now is to make our PHCs good enough for me, my children, grandchildren and all Edo people.” she declared.