ABUJA – The House of Representa­tives Public Accounts Com­mittee on Tuesday issued a seven-day ultimatum to five ministers and some senior civ­il servants over their refusal to honour series of invitations to offer explanations regarding multiple audit queries issued to them by the Office of the Auditor-General for the Fed­eration. The committee stated that the affected ministers either appear before it or be sanc­tioned in line with the laws of the land. The ministers are those of the Ministry of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; Ministry of Communication and Digi­tal Economy, Sheikh Ibrahim Pantami; Ministry of Environ­ment, Muhammed Abubakar; Ministry of Health, as well as that of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola. IBEDC Faults Oyo Government On Closure Of Offices Eguavoen, Amuneke Should Guard Against Clash Of Interest,… The Chairman of the Com­mittee, Hon. Oluwole Oke, who handed down the ultimatum at the resumed sitting of the committee said the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Raufu Aregbesola, should appear alongside the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry; the Comptroller-General of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, and the Head of the Federal Fire Service. He also directed that the committee clerk should im­mediately dispatch the notice of the summons to the affect­ed ministries and copy same to the Secretary to the Gov­ernment of the Federation, the Minister for Justice and Attorney General of the Fed­eration, as well as the Chief of Staff to the President. He lamented that the parlia­ment was reporting the affect­ed officials to the presidency (their employer), after several attempts to make them see rea­sons why they should respond to the said audit queries failed. Oke said, “Today makes the fifth time the Ministry of Works and Housing will be asking for another extension of time on the audit query raised against it over the years. For how long shall we contin­ue like this? Mr. President hon­oured some people with public appointments but to pay him back, they will not be alive to their responsibilities, this is very unfortunate. “We are only asking them to make appearances before the committee to clarify issues on financial infractions raised by the Office of the Auditor General for the Federation, nothing more.” POLL This was just as the com­mittee began investigation into the missing $40 million from the looted funds recovery account of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). It also followed alleged in­ability of the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, to tender relevant documents before the Public Accounts Commit­tee of the House, to ascertain the status of recovered funds in the said account. Chairman Oke insisted that the apex bank must bring all the relevant documents, de­manded by the committee to ease their investigation with a view to recovering the money for government. The CBN governor who was represented by the deputy director, banking supervision, Mrs. Iguadunasue C.I., could not offer satisfactory explana­tions on the whereabouts of the funds in question. Miffed by the development, Oke ordered the CBN to “fur­nish the committee with doc­uments of all recovered funds within seven days for proper investigation.” Lift Of Ban On Twitter: Aviation Entrepreneur Hails Buhari, Says… Adebakin Felicitates With Ladi Adebutu @60 The Office of Auditor-Gen­eral for the Federation (AuGF) had queried the CBN demand­inganswersonthewhereabouts of the money in question. For four years, beginning from 2016, nothing, according to the AuGF’s office, entered the account from the Eco­nomic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) despite series of recoveries made by the commission over the time in question, hence the query. In his ruling, Oke demand­ed that the CBN produces a soft copy of entries of both inflow and outflow of foreign exchange so as to ascertain the amount of recovery.