A couple, Kehinde Oladimeji, and his wife Adejumoke Raji who were arrested on Saturday for being in possession of human parts at Leme area of Ogun State have revealed how they killed their victim. The 43-year-old husband disclosed that his 35-year-old wife had singlehandedly killed her friend, who had paid her a visit. He said the woman killed the friend, butchered her and dismembered her body parts, which the police later discovered in a bucket. US Response To Security Guarantee Proposals Cannot Satisfy… Tight Oil Market Could See Prices Hit $125 In Q2 – JP… Oladimeji disclosed that the head of the woman was sold to someone in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital at the rate of N70,000. He said, “There was a day my wife invited her friend, a lady to our house for a visit. The first time she came was on a Tuesday, she came that particular day and went back home. “But the second day she came, it was a Thursday. That day, my wife cooked noodles and eggs for the lady, which she ate. Later, the lady went into the bathroom to shower. “But when it was getting dark that day, I inquired from my wife when her friend would go home, but my wife said she was weak and would need to lie down to regain her strength. I sat in the backyard, but when I returned to the room, I realized my wife had killed her friend and dismembered her body. “When I asked her why she did it, she told me that the lady had offended her a long time ago. The person who bought the head came from Ibadan. His name is Oluomo,” the husband disclosed. POLL He explained further that his wife had overheard her on the phone when a friend from Ibadan called him to request a human head. He said, “I have a friend in Ibadan, who is popularly known as Omo Baale. He told me he needed a human head, but I told him I didn’t have such a connection or anybody who can help facilitate it. My wife heard the discussion and asked me how much the man would pay for the human head. I told him he was ready to pay N70,000. I never knew my wife had made up her mind. “As you can see, I’m not a strong person. When the incident happened, I had wanted to kill myself.”