The leadership of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria(AFAN) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari led administration for the giant strides recorded in the agricultural sector. A statement on Friday by the National President of AFAN, Kabir Ibrahim, enumerated some of the milestones taken by the Buhari administration in the quest to achieve food security in the country. This is coming against the backdrop that the African Union is meeting in Addis Ababa to examine the attainment of food security and nutrition in Africa. Aisha Buhari, Dolapo Osinbajo, Ifeanyi Uba, Nollywood Stars Join… Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election Buhari will be participating in the 35th Ordinary Session of Assembly of the African Union Heads of State and Government. The theme of the deliberation of the Ordinary Session is: “Building Resilience in Nutrition and Food Security on the African Continent: Strengthen Agriculture, Accelerate the Human Capital, Social and Economic Development.’’ Ibrahim observed that the present administration on assumption of office pledged to make agriculture the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy especially due to the restlessness in the oil-producing areas and the country’s over-dependence on oil, thereby abandoning agriculture. He said: “As soon as the government was inaugurated work began in earnest to develop a policy to drive Agriculture which culminated in the launch of Agriculture Promotion Policy(APP) to replace Agricultural Transformation Agenda(ATA), the agricultural policy of the previous administration. “Upon the public launch of the APP, the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) in support of the policy evolved the Anchor Borrowers Programme and several interventions. POLL “As a result of these interventions agriculture soon occupied the front banner and National Agribusiness Investment Plan(NAIP) was evolved. “The legislature passed so many bills to support Agricultural production, which include the National Agricultural Seeds Council(NASC) Seed Act. 2019, Plant Variety Protection(PVP) Act, Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria(ARCN) Act, resuscitation of National Food Reserve Agency(NFRA), among others.” Ibrahim noted that a new policy, called, National Agricultural Technology and Innovation Policy(NATIP) would soon be launched to replace the APP which expired in 2020. The National President of AFAN assured that Nigerian farmers are poised to ensure food sufficiency in the country in spite of so many challenges ranging from insecurity, climate change, and inadequate technology in the sector. He pointed out that, “farmers are showing a lot of resilience by working assiduously to produce what Nigerians and our neighbors eat sustainably despite the Covid-19 pandemic and various other challenges. Police Arrest 25 Suspected Cultists In Delta Lifting Of Flight Restriction: Air Peace Resumes Three Weekly… “Of course, there is a lot more work to do to attain food security in Nigeria but so far what has been achieved is quite remarkable and may be considered to work in progress.”