LAGOS – Just as the jostle for the presidency of Nigeria continues to gather momentum, a Yoruba socio-political organisation, Coalition of Oodua Self-Determination Groups (COSEG), has appealed to political leaders from the South-East and South-South regions to allow the South-West produce the next president of the country. This call was contained in a communique issued at the end of a meeting of the group held in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on Friday. The communique, which was signed by Comrade Dayo Ogunlana and other members of the group, dwelt more on developments surrounding the 2023 election, zoning and candidates for Nigeria presidency. APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns COSEG at the meeting resolved that the Nigeria presidency should be zoned to the southern zone of Nigeria for equity and justice to prevail, noting that the North through President Muhammadu Buhari, would have used its eight uninterrupted years by May 2023. According to the group, “The continuity of the existence of Nigeria can only stand if its working and processes are based on justice as expressly mentioned in the constitution as regards the North and South Zones.” COSEG urged Southern Nigeria to unite and ensure that no blackmail, mischief and division are promoted among them “so as to allow the North to destroy the unity of Nigeria with their consistent call for Northern presidency again when they are about relinquishing power.” The group also commended the effort of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu led Southern Governors’ Forum, saying, “This is the first time we are getting it right and we hope there will not be any Judas among them. We request to be informed of any Judas when he is being evolved. “We must inform the Southern Governors that on this, we are partners as we shall ensure we do everything lawfully and traditionally to ensure that the south is not cheated in this regard as the North is doing everything possible to destroy Nigeria. The reasons for this we are yet to know. POLL “Having agreed on the zone to produce the president as highlighted, we plead that the South-South and the South-East political leaders allow the presidency to be zoned to the South-West. It has been seen that the North who is about relinquishing the presidency are comfortable with the southwest taking over because of fear that has been prevalent for some time and this is being caused by intrinsic regional activities. “So for them to relinquish power, they believe it’s only the southwest that can still bind Nigeria. This is just the truth as their fear may be justified. For the South to get what rightly belongs to it peacefully and fairly, it is incumbent for the southern region leaders to unite allow the presidency to be zoned to the southwest Nigeria “Having agreed on the above, we believe the Southwest of Nigeria has numerous political leaders who can adequately and brilliantly take Nigeria to Eldorado. “Having evaluated all the aforementioned leaders, the meeting specifically agreed on three notable names that have the requisites knowledge, pedigree, right attitudes, panache and capacity to lead Nigeria to where three good square meals and other life necessities can be provided for Nigerians irrespective of tribe, region or religion. Their capacity to make Nigeria great again without bias or mischief is inherent. “At a due date, the three southwest political leaders’ names will be unveiled and various checks and further evaluations will be made after invitations must have been given to additional groups to join us in dissecting the three agreed presidential materials in which one will be finally be promoted and recommended to various leaders of other ethnic groups in which we have the historical relationship of COSEG 23 years of existence with,” the communique added.