LAGOS – The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)’s, global trade update recently shows that in 2021, world trade in goods remained strong and trade in services finally returned to its pre-COVID-19 levels. According to the report, “Overall, the value of global trade reached a record level of $28.5 trillion in 2021,” indicating an increase of 25% on 2020 and 13% higher compared to 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The report stated that while most global trade growth took hold during the first half of 2021, progress continued in the year’s second half. ACAMB Celebrates Pioneer President, Veteran Dangogo On His… Why Q4:2021 GDP Growth Momentum Defies Pandemic Mutation –… “After a relatively slow third quarter, trade growth picked up again in the fourth quarter, when trade in goods increased by almost $200 billion, achieving a new record of $5.8 trillion. “Meanwhile, trade in services rose by $50 billion to reach $1.6 trillion, just above pre-pandemic levels”, it said. The report shows that in the fourth quarter 2021, all major trading economies saw imports and exports rise well above pre-pandemic levels in 2019, but trade in goods increased more strongly in the developing world than in developed countries. Exports of developing countries were about 30% higher than during the same period in 2020, compared with 15% for wealthier nations. The growth was higher in commodity-exporting regions, as commodity prices increased. Moreover, South-South trade growth was above the global average, with a 32% year-on-year increase. POLL Except transport equipment, all economic sectors saw a substantial year-over-year increase in the value of their trade during the final quarter of 2021. “High fuel prices are behind the strong increase in the value of trade of the energy sector,” the report says, “Trade growth was also above average for metals and chemicals.” As a result of the global shortage of semiconductors, trade growth in communication equipment, road vehicles and precision instruments was subdued. The UNCTAD in its forecasts for 2022 report indicates that trade growth will slow during the first quarter of 2022. Positive growth rates are expected for both trade in goods and services, albeit only marginally, keeping trade values at levels similar to the last three months of 2021. Group Charges Elumelu, Jim Ovia, Others On Human Capacity… Agribusiness: Oyo Receives Last Batch Of 3,300 YEAP Participants… “The positive trend for international trade in 2021 was largely the result of increases in commodity prices, subsiding pandemic restrictions and a strong recovery in demand due to economic stimulus packages,” the report says. 