BAUCHI – A coalition of political support groups in Bauchi state under the aegis of ‘Tinubu Network for Grassroot Mobilisation 2023’ has declared support for the presidential aspiration of the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The Chairman of the Coalition, Alhaji Bala Hassan Burga who made the declaration while speaking during a stakeholders meeting held in Bauchi yesterday, said that they are ready to go to the grassroots in order to mobilize support for the Tinubu 2023 presidential project. He explained that the Coalition is made up of not less than 50 political support groups from across Bauchi State who came together to engage in the sensitization of people about the Bola Tinubu 2023 presidential project. Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election Umahi Will Fly APC’s Presidential Ticket, Ebonyi Party… “Among all those who have indicated interest in the 2023 presidency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the most qualified considering his track record as a two term Governor of Lagos state, business acumen and friendly posture. He has the capacity and resources to contest for the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria” “He did what impressed us by going to the Villa to formally inform President Muhammadu Buhari of his interest in the 2023 presidency. That singular act has endeared him to many Nigerians especially Northerners”. “Bola Tinubu has done very much for the APC, he is one of the people holding the party. He mobilized people of the South – West to support the candidacy of Muhammadu Buhari, it is payback time from the North for him”. “Come 2023, we have the surest conviction that Bola Ahmed Tinubu will win the presidential election after he must have won the APC ticket. He has the integrity to rule Nigeria after Muhammadu Buhari” he said Bala Burga express optimism that a Bola Ahmed Tinubu presidency will bring more positive development to the country saying that he will surpass whatever the present administration will have left behind at the end of its tenure.