EMMANUEL OBETA The Role of Public Relations in Brand Management Public relations create a soft-landing pad or a well-watered ground within which the brand can grow or thrive in. Shoprite To Reopen Circle Mall Store After #Endsars Attack,… Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (15) An analogy is when a speaker is well introduced with his profile well-presented before making a speech as opposed to when the same speaker mounts the podium before a new set of audience to make the same presentation without any introductions. The audience are more likely to be more positively disposed and eager to listen to the person that is well introduced to them as opposed to an even more qualified speaker without any prior introduction. This will earn media placements which are the product of public relations interactions with the media acts as this introduction for the brand. The media due to their existing reputation and image endorses the new brand thereby bestowing its reputation and credibility to the new brand. New brands therefore, can benefit from public relations tools which can be important elements in building an industry presence for them while for established businesses, the practice can help to further their reach and reposition the aims and targets of a new product or service. POLL Due to its innocuous relationship building skills public relations can create goodwill for the organization and its brands by forestalling any rough edges or misgivings between the organization and its stakeholders thereby deepening the relationship through communication with the target market and stakeholders with a view to attracting further or future investments. Proactive and strategic public relations can be and should be tied to the organization’s vision – what it wants to become in the future, its mission – the organization’s purpose or what they seek to achieve, it’s values – core beliefs and what it stands for as well as its desired positioning. Public relations as a great story telling and agenda setting tool for the public can generate, initiate as well as own the narrative about the organization which it then actively projects across all the media and tools open to it. It can help in fashioning clearly this anticipated future for the organization for the employee stakeholders via its internal communication mechanism thereby making it a clarion call for the entire organization as well as a means of motivating and galvanizing the workforce. It can also elucidate clearly on the purpose of the organization using all its media relations and digital and online marketing tools such that all the social media platforms are saturated with the organization’s purpose, aims and objective. Public Relations As A Tool Of Managing Your Brand (14) Futureview Advises Investors To Take Advantage Of Mutual Funds This will not only create a zone of comfort for the organization’s customers but also ensure that there are no doubts or questions left in their mind about the organization. The same can also be done about the values of the organization which it can project and even animate through all possible means such that at the end of the day all these will culminate in the desired positioning of the organization in the minds of its customers and relevant publics. Another place that public relations can be of immense help to the organization is in the maintaining and building of a wholesome and winning culture for the organization. This it can achieve through a process of alignment between the organization’s employee and the value of the corporate brand thereby leading to a quantum leap in the performance of the organization. Any misalignment between the organization and its employees in terms of the value system will create a lot of dysfunctionalities and hiccups. Public relations through its proactive communication can smoothen the rough edges, allay all fears or exhume all concerns and address them effectively. According to Mikáová and Gavlaková (2013) high performance organizations share or exhibit the characteristics outlined below in every location and every level. They have focus where a few key measures of success are clearly understood and harped upon; they have unity of purpose – a “one company” mentality with everyone pulling together; energy – a sense of urgency, often emanating from the desire to fulfill a customer need; agility – an ability to adapt to a changing business environment; learning – a desire to share knowledge and the organizational infrastructure to enable knowledge to be shared and a sense of identity – an individual and collective identification with an organization’s mission, values, business and brand promise. Public relations through its event management skills can help build customer recognition and affinity with the brand. These events can be first hand moments for the customers to interact with the brand through open house tours and visitations, product testing/ sampling as well as other experiential moments like actually test driving the vehicles or its latest brands. These events not only generate consumer’s interest but it raises their awareness of the brand’s identity possibly also etching it deep within their consciousness. Public relation is also a wonderful tool of containing damages and recovering from any possible mishaps that may occur along the lines of doing business and relating with the various stakeholders. A good example was Johnson & Johnson who used effective public relations to quickly and openly communicate with the news media and consumers during the 1982 Tylenol poisonings. Through public relations, Johnson & Johnson was able to protect and even solidify its company’s brand in the eyes of consumers At the end of the day the role of public relations in brand building can be categorized into two; as a creator of narrative, i.e., the conversation and as the purveyor of the medium to facilitate the conversation through the social media and other media of communication (Mikáová & Gavlaková 2013). Public relations due to its authenticity arising from its story telling abilities and connectivity with the customers and the general public should therefore spearhead the role of elevating the brand and its discourse among the public forum. As skilled relationship-builders, public relations practitioners are highly proficient in the art of the two-way conversation and as such, bring significant value to a branding initiative in the two-way engagement platform required to sustain the brand conversation in today’s world especially in the light of the onslaught of the social media. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com