 Hakeem Adeniji, a Nigerian player on the Cincinnati Bengals, has been named to the roster for Super Bowl LVI in 2022, which is being held at the Los Angeles Coliseum. Hakeem’s selection comes after he played every game over his final three seasons at Kansas, staring all but one of them. He earned All-Big 12 honors each of his final two seasons, including second-team honors as a senior. While the Super Bowl itself is not open to online betting, there are many online sports betting sites allowing people to bet on the event—and Nigerian online sports betting sites are no exception. Nigerians can bet on Hakeem’s team, and they can even bet on whether or not he’ll score a touchdown. Most of the best online betting sites in Nigeria will be offering odds on the Super Bowl, offering you a chance to be part of it as a sports lover and a punter. Other Nigerian players who have featured in the Super Bowl include:➢ Harun Alorunso (2020) played for the Denver Broncos, who lost 21-16 to the New Orleans Saints. He scored a touchdown in the game and was named MVP of the event.➢ Agbimdire Emmanuel (2018) played for the Atlanta Falcons and won the game 28-24 over the New England Patriots. He scored 2 touchdowns and returned 3 interceptions during his time on the field.➢ Tunde Ogunbowale (2021) will be playing for Philadelphia Eagles against Kansas City Chiefs and could meet up with Hakeem Adeniji if both of their teams make it to that stage of the event. So, what’s about all the hype around the Super Bowl? With everyone, especially in America talking about the Super Bowl on social media and the mainstream media, anyone would want to know why. Here’s why; The Super Bowl is like a really big party where people all over the world gather to watch, hear about, and eat things that are shaped like footballs—including chicken wings, football-shaped cakes, and other foods with football motifs on them. Just like any party though, it’s not just about the food and drinks—it’s also about who you’re with! And at this party, there will be millions of people watching all over the world—including Nigerians! While Nigerians may not physically enjoy the event, watching the livestream of the event is always an option. Even better, you can become part of the event by wagering on the outcomes of the game. With several Nigerians raising our flag during that world’s biggest sports events it would be sickening not to support and cheer our own. POLL For many Americans, the event is an avenue to spend time with their friends and family while enjoying a fantastic show. However, for football fans across the world, it is a moment to watch the best players in action as they battle to win one of sport’s most coveted trophies. Nigerians are no different, as many would be glued to their television sets this weekend to watch Super Bowl LVI. One of their own and former University of Kansas standout Hakeem Adeniji will feature for the Cincinnati Bengals this weekend at the popular SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles. The game will kickoff at 6:30 PM local time and will be broadcasted live on NBC.