Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank, has concluded plans to sponsor Africa NXT, formerly known as Social Media Week as part of its commitment to youth development. In recent years, experts and youths in the business, creative and tech spaces across Africa and the diaspora had convened to hold discussions on various topics related to youth development at the week-long annual event. This year, the event is slated to take place from 27 February to 04 March 2022. Eko DisCo Calls For Improved Allocation Of Power From National… Remita Commences Sale Of JAMB ePINs 2022 To Candidates The 2022 edition of the event is themed ‘The Next 10 Years: Reimagining Our Collective Commitment to Africa’s Prosperity’, with a particular focus on collaboration to achieve progress in tech and business for Africa’s prosperity. As an institution leaning towards the use of technological innovation in the financial space and an official sponsor of the Africa NXT event, Stanbic IBTC will hold a panel discussion and masterclass session to speak to topics on digital insurance, investments, and business finance. The financial institution will introduce its newly launched Artificial Intelligence robotics, Stanbic IBTC Pepper, a fully programmed robotic companion that engenders quality human interaction in banking experiences for clients and customers during the event. Wole Adeniyi, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank, said the event would serve as an opportunity to connect with the youth. “Stanbic IBTC is passionate about youth development and innovation. Africa NXT is a platform that connects us all, gives us the opportunity to converse and let them know that Stanbic IBTC is always ready to help push their dreams.”, he said POLL Adeniyi said the robot, Pepper, will be on ground for people to have a first-hand experience of it and have a glimpse of how technology powers Stanbic IBTC’s operations. “Technology is beautiful. It simplifies complex processes. Pepper is a robot, but it is well equipped to carry out basic transactions. She is a demonstration of Stanbic IBTC’s relentless search for ways to serve our clients and customers through technology.” Stanbic IBTC remains committed to finding ways to connect with the youth for empowerment as well as providing Nigerians with financial solutions powered by innovative technology. To participate in the event, visit here