LAGOS – The Lagos State Government has introduced a new Resident Identification Card for Lagosians in order to plan appropriately and curb criminalities in the state. The government also said projected that no fewer than six million Lagos residents would access the new ID card by the end of 2022. The government however said that for those who have already enrolled for the resident cards in the past, they only needed to update their registration to be qualified for the new card. Lagos4Lagos: PDP Needs 8 Years Of Planning Plus Hard Work To Win… Lagos Will Always Remember Fallen Heroes, Heroines –… Engr. Ibilola Kasumu, the General Manager, Lagos State Registration Agency (LASRRA) stated these on Friday at the agency’s office at Alausa, Ikaja, Lagos. According to her, the government in conjunction with Sterling Bank Plc has already printed three million new ID cards with enhanced security features and chips to be distributed to Lagos residents on completion of registration. Kasumu explained that the ID cards would enable the State Government to create data base for its system and could be used for multiple purposes of assessing government facilities, improves social welfare and create opportunities for financial inclusion for residents. She explained that the project, which was approved in December 2019, was the first of its kind in Africa and came with 28 applets, including banks, shopping malls, Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and for transportation among others. She assured that the ID cards came with proven security features for users, adding that the cards were produced with high integrity. POLL Kasumu explained further that residents could register for the cards at all the 57 Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) across the state, while the government had also partnered with 16 private sector companies to make it faster and seamless. She said: “We are partnering with a local printing company for the cards. Also, the card encourages security as we also work with the security agencies. The card is also good for students, the elderly people and the working class in our environment. Rather than carrying multiple cards, this card can serve as a multi-purpose. “Also, it has 28 applets and other 25 applets are still being considered for the project. Every card comes with a wallet. For those who already enrolled, they need to validate their cards in case anything has changed in the former ID card. Kasumu explained that the new ID cards can be received within two weeks of registration. Statistics released by the agency indicated that out of the 24.6 million Lagosians, only, 4.46 million enrolled for the former ID card, indicating 5.51 per cent of the total populace, while 3.25 million residents were awaiting validation and 1.04 million were certified good to go by the system. BREAKING: Lagos Loses First Female Deputy Speaker, Adetoun… Lagos Will Use Sports To Project Tourism, Says Sanwo-Olu Also, the first set of the cards would be launched by the end of March 2022 in the state.