Notwithstanding her being born into affluence, the passionate desire to affect the lives of the downtrodden positively, principally accounted for why Hon. Olanrewaju veered off the lucrative psychiatric nursing-cum real estate career into politics. Unlike most other politicians, who seek to better their lots in politics, Bakre Olanrewaju rather considered occupying an elective position as one of the surest endeavours through which political office holders could conveniently bring governance closer to the people at the grassroots and empower them to have a say on matters that affect their lives. It is indeed an understatement to say that political office holders in today’s Nigeria consider the grassroots people important only during every electioneering period when they will be doling out gifts to entice them, but the fact remains that those unsuspecting electorates easily fall prey to their games which is largely targeted at securing their votes during the election. It is, however, noteworthy to distinguish Bakre Olanrewaju from such political gimmicks, considering her antecedents, which have witnessed several people of the grassroots, overcoming the challenges of life without any strings attached. Born in the 1980s, Bakre Olanrewaju, cut her teeth in broadcast journalism, having trained at South Bank University, London, in Housing and Social Working. Not many people know that Bakre Olanrewaju has been in politics for a long time and she is not in politics for personal gains, neither is she in politics for fame. Bakre Olanrewaju is driven by the passion to serve humanity and improve the standard of living of the people.  Notwithstanding her being born into affluence, the passionate desire to affect the lives of the downtrodden positively, principally accounted for why Hon. Olanrewaju veered off the lucrative psychiatric nursing-cum real estate career into politics. Unlike most other politicians, who seek to better their lots in politics, Bakre Olanrewaju rather considered occupying an elective position as one of the surest endeavours through which political office holders could conveniently bring governance closer to the people at the grassroots and empower them to have a say on matters that affect their lives. It is indeed an understatement to say that political office holders in today’s Nigeria consider the grassroots people important only during every electioneering period when they will be doling out gifts to entice them, but the fact remains that those unsuspecting electorates easily fall prey to their games which is largely targeted at securing their votes during the election. It is, however, noteworthy to distinguish Bakre Olanrewaju from such political gimmicks, considering her antecedents, which have witnessed several people of the grassroots, overcoming the challenges of life without any strings attached. Born in the 1980s, Bakre Olanrewaju, cut her teeth in broadcast journalism, having trained at South Bank University, London, in Housing and Social Working. Not many people know that Bakre Olanrewaju has been in politics for a long time and she is not in politics for personal gains, neither is she in politics for fame. Bakre Olanrewaju is driven by the passion to serve humanity and improve the standard of living of the people.