SULAIMAN FASASI; JOY ANIGBOGU The former Emir of Kano, Mu­hammadu Sanusi Lamido II, on Monday said Nigeria is living on extra time and would be in a deeper hole in 2023. Sanusi also noted that the prob­lems the country would be facing in 2023 would be multiple of what it were in 2015 when the present administration took over the mantle of leadership. Our Ban On Movement Of Cattle, Eating Of Beef In S-East Stands —… NFF Dumps Paseiro, Retains Eguavoen As Super Eagles Interim… The former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and the Khalifa (Lead­er) of Tijaniyyah Islamic sect in Nigeria, spoke in Abeoku­ta, Ogun State, at a reception for him (Sanusi) as part of activities marking the 80th birthday of Babanla Adinni of Egbaland, Chief Tayo Sow­unmi. Sanusi said, “To be honest, we are living on extra time. In 2015, we were in a deep hole. In 2023, we will be in an even much deeper hole than in 2015. “The challenges facing all those people who are strug­gling to be president, I hope they understand that the problems that they are going to face are multiples of the problems that were faced in 2015 and all of us have to be ready for difficult decisions and if they are taken, we are all going to pay for it. “But the solution is not for all of us to jump into politics, this country needs good pol­iticians, it needs imams and pastors and bishops who are going to stand up and remind them (politicians) of the fear of God. It needs technocrats who are going to critique their policies, it needs traditional rulers who are going to speak as the conscience of the peo­ple, everyone has a role to play and we should try to play that role to the best of our ability”, he said. Sanusi also denied eyeing the presidency in 2023, saying he’s contented being the spiri­tual leader of the Tijaniyyah sect. POLL He noted that he had served in various capacities “and I will forever be grateful to Allah.” Segun Sowunmi, who spoke on behalf of the fami­ly, asked if Nigeria should be expecting a future president in Sanusi. Sowunmi, a former spokesperson to Vice Presi­dent Atiku Abubakar Cam­paign Organisation during the 2019 general elections, asked, “People who are Khalifa of your quality must never ever be relinquished or extinguished. So, they (people) asked me to ask you, are we going to be looking for a president in future? Do I even have the answer? I do not know. “But one thing I have said to them is that, for as long as you live, I have taken the lib­erty to say, you will always be a Nigerian patriot, a detrib­alised Nigerian, a leader of leaders, a holder of Ummah of Islam, the spiritual lead­er of the Tijaniyyah and the leading light of everything beautiful.”