ABUJA – The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senator Iyorcha Ayu, has described the party’s victory in the just-concluded Federal Capital Territory (FCT) council polls, as a good omen. It was reported that PDP won three area councils, that is, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Kuje and Bwari, while All Progressives Congress (APC) won Gwagwalada, Kwali and Abaji. Dedicating the victory to PDP governors, National Executive Committee (NEC), National Working Committee (NWC) and millions of party members, Ayu, in a statement further described the victory as “a great omen under my watch as we lead PDP back to winning ways and rebuilding Nigeria.” PDP Alleges Plot By Ebonyi Govt To Implicate, Arrest Its Leaders APC Suffers Mass Defection Of Leaders, Members To PDP In Delta He added that “the promise of a better Nigeria has just been flagged off by the victory at the FCT polls of Saturday, February 12, 2022, adding another seat for the party. “The victory of our great party, the PDP, signposts the promise of a better Nigeria under my watch, leading this team of dedicated and committed party members. “The victory at the FCT polls of Saturday, February 12, 2022, represents a great omen under my watch as we lead PDP back to winning ways and rebuilding Nigeria. “This victory, which gave us the important Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, is a signal that Nigerians are tired of the woes and hardship of the moment, occasioned by the worsening socio-economic realities of today. “This victory is dedicated to all leaders of our party, particularly the state governors, NEC members, NWC members as well as the millions of party members across the nation. POLL “What we have just achieved in Abuja, the seat of power, will be replicated in Ekiti and Osun State later this year, culminating in our take over of power at the centre next year, to usher in a better, more prosperous and secure Nigeria. “PDP is back to rescue Nigeria and the rescue begins from the seat of power in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, FCT.”