Dr. Phillips Nto, a former Commissioner for Fi­nance in Abia State, was on Friday cleared by an Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia, of corruption charges leveled against him by the Indepen­dent Corrupt Practices and other offences Commission (ICPC). The court presided over by Jus­tice Thompson Adiele, held that Nto was not guilty of the three-count charge preferred against the former commissioner as the prosecution failed to prove its case. He therefore gave the agency 48 hours to tender an apology in two national newspapers over what he called malicious arraignment in court. Osun Guber: Let’s Close Ranks And Eschew Bitterness,… Ojokoro LCDA Chairman Budgets N3.8bn For 2022 Nto, Consolidated Business Net­work and its managing director, lkechukwu Onu, were charged for allegedly engaging in corrupt prac­tice through the refund of excess charges on Abia State funds by the Keystone Bank. However, in his ruling, Justice Adiele held that the former com­missioner was not found guilty of engaging in corrupt practice as out­lined in Count One, while Charge Two which bordered on conspiracy to confer undue corrupt advantage on an associate, was not tenable since it could not be proved that the second and third defendants were associates of Nto. On the Third Count of making false statement to former Abia State government on the amount recovered from Keystone Bank as excess charges on the government’s money, the court held that the for­mer commissioner was not guilty because the signatures on the con­tentious documents were forged. The judge held that a hand writ­ing expert had testified in court that letters said to be written by the former commissioner engag­ing the consultant and authorising Keystone Bank to pay them money were forged. He said the signature expert con­firmed that those letters were not signed by Nto and therefore, the for­mer commissioner could not have engaged in corrupt practice. POLL The court, however, ordered that both the second and third de­fendants should pay back the sum of N550 million to Abia State gov­ernment within 30 days of the judg­ment, adding that it was wrong for them to have collected N700 million from Keystone Bank, only to pay a paltry N150m to government in the name of commission.