LAFIA – The Northcentral Youth, under the auspices of Rescue Nigeria Mission (RNM) has at weekend endorsed governor Yahaya Bello, as a presidential candidate in the forthcoming 2023 general election on the platform of the ruling All Progressive Congress APC. Speaking while endorsed Governor Yahaya Bello, the North-central coordinator for Rescue Nigeria Mission for Yahaya Bello, Mr. Torgi Haruna, said the reason behind Yahaya Bello endorsement was because he can rescue Nigeria from all the challenges Nigeria is facing as a nation. Torgi Haruna said Nigeria at this stage need a youthful leader and somebody who is very vibrant, committed, dedicated to taking Nigeria out of the current situation. Yahaya Bello Visits Buhari, Discusses National Issues, Security 2023: Youths Vow To Install Yahaya Bello President By Numerical… According to the North-central coordinator, ” we are here to carry out induction training for North-central coordinators of Rescue Nigeria Mission for Yahaya Bello and endorsed him as our presidential candidate. “We are here to endorse Yahaya Bello because Nigeria is 56yrs old, the question is how long we have gone as a nation. Nigeria at this stage need a youthful leader, somebody who is very vibrant committed and is capable to taking Nigeria out from the current situation, ” he said. He further explained that the choice of Yahaya Bello for endorsement was not far from is the only youth who has boldly indicated interest to run for the seat of the president on the platform of APC. Also speaking during the endorsement Nasarawa State Coordinator Rescue Nigeria Mission, Mr. Tahiru Musa Nagogo, said the North-central youths were in Nasarawa state to flagged off the endorsement of gov. Yahaya Bello in the north-central comprises Nasarawa, Benue, Plateau, Kogi, Kwara and Niger. He said they want to throw their weight behind somebody who would support youth to showcase their talent and to take Nigeria to promise Land. POLL According to him, ” we are been told right from our childhood that we are leaders of tomorrow and up till now, our children are been told they are the leader of tomorrow went is that tomorrow, that tomorrow is now, ” he Nagogo said. He called on the youths to support Governor Yahaya Bello for presidential ambition come 2023 for the good of the Nigerian youth.