JOS – Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike on Wednesday stormed Jos the Plateau State capital and appealed to members of his party with political ambitions ahead of 2023 to put aside such for now and focus on how to unite the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to salvage the country from the shackles of maladministration. Wike made this appeal at the premises of Jos high court where former governor Jonah Jang was defending his case before a Jos high court brought against him by the EFCC. Wike reiterated the need for the right thing to be done, saying the problem of PDP is not about materials, it is about individuals who can move the country forward as according to him, “We have the material but what we are contending now is everybody must come together make sacrifices and see how we can move forward.” 2023: Wike Lauds Makarfi For Saving PDP From Destruction PDP Can Only Support Presidential Candidate That Will Unite… The Governor stressed that “Nigerians are waiting for PDP, Nigeria is bleeding, Plateau State is not an exception, it is not about Christians or Muslims, it is not about North or South, the killings, the insecurity, the hardship and poverty is everywhere. We are more concerned about the insecurity in Nigeria, the only hope Nigeria has now is for the PDP and so it requires collective efforts of everybody. If we don’t work as a team, Nigerians will not be happy.” Speaking on his ambition in 2023, he started, “I have not told you that I am running for any presidential election, we want our Party to be united. What is important is that you must have a Party before you talk of an election, without a party, what is the essence of running for an election? Plateau is ripe for the PDP to take over because APC has performed woefully as far as Nigeria and the State is concerned. I stand to be challenged by anybody. “Every individual has to keep his aspiration and focus on how the party will be united to salvage the country to salvage Plateau State.” Governor Wike had earlier stormed the Plateau State High Court sitting in Jos in solidarity, where the former Governor of the state, Jonah Jang is being arraigned. Jang is standing trial alongside Yusuf Pam, an ex-cashier in the office of the Secretary to the Government of the State, on alleged N6.3bn fraud charges brought before the court by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. POLL The two accused persons were first arraigned before Justice Daniel Longji in March 2018 on 17 counts bordering on criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of public funds but they had since pleaded not guilty to the charges. The case is currently before Justice Christy Dabup who started hearing on the matter afresh following the retirement of Justice Longji in December 2019, after hearing the matter 34 times. Wike, clad in a dark blue suit with a white shirt underneath, arrived at the court premises at 9:50 am in company with other Peoples Democratic Party chieftains and moved straight to the courtroom where the trial was already in progress. Counsel for Jang, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), told the judge that the Rivers State Governor was in the court to witness the trial of his client.