***As Pantami Addresses 5th Tech Summit Ogun ABEOKUTA – An Information Technology Expert, Olaniyi Ayoola, has berated the failure of Nigeria government from taking a full advantage of potentials in technology, saying if properly harnessed, technology is enough to become the next oil in the country. Ayoola, the Chief Executive Officer of VerveTree hub, said this while addressing a press conference heralding the 5th edition of TechSummit Ogun 2020 with the theme ‘Disruptive Innovation:Production and Distribution of Creative Content’. Informal Retailers Ride On Nigeria’s Digital Economy Train Galaxy Backbone Restores NIMC Server Network The Summit, which starts on Wednesday will have the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Pantami as thr keynote speaker. Speaking on the potentials of ICT, Ayoola said Nigeria is in no where taking a full advantage of the innovation when compared with other developed nations of the world. According to him, it is either the citizens are afraid or the government is not exhibiting enough sincerity at implementing policies towards the advancement of technology in Nigeria. Ayoola said a platform, Digital Addressing, which is being worked on will address a long of challenges facing the Country, including security challenges, but lamented that some people are trying to frustrate the process for their selfish interest. He said, “As a nation, we are yet to take advantage of technology to improve and grow the GDP, if you check the rate at which others nations have developed and integrated using various technology, I don’t know what the problem is with Nigeria, probably the citizens are afraid or the government is not really sincere in implementing policies towards advancing technology in Nigeria. POLL “For instance, Digital Addressing Platform, is being worked on and if this is properly integrated, it is going to solve a lot of problems and increase the GDP as a nation, but some elements are trying to frustrate that process because if it is implemented, it will bring transparency into almost everything we do as a nation, it will tell you where everybody lives, what they do and their environment, because it is going to link addressing with mobile numbers, and now that mobile numbers have been linked to NIN; NIN linked to BVN, etc. “So, there is no way you can thrive as a fraudster or a corrupt citizen if digital addressing is properly implemented. Why is Nigeria not looking at such innovations in addressing real estate, businesses, etc. You will find out that, people are not sincere in taking advantage of technology in improving their livelihood. With the platform, we don’t need census officially, because if it is properly administered, it will improve everything including our electoral system, health system, security, etc. And will also block all loopholes in governance and processes. “This is one of the aspects of technology that has been implemented in other nations. Digital Economy for instance, Nigeria is just implementing like 10% of what it entails, the opportunity is endless. The same energy used in scamming people is the same energy a yahoo boy will use in advancing technology in making legitimate income.” Ayoola challenged internet fraudsters popularly called “Yahoo boys”, to channel their energy towards technologically driven innovations and earn money legally rather than fleecing people to amass wealth. How Elon Musk Mentored Tech Guru, Trillbjm 5G: MTN Pays For License Ahead February 24 Deadline The tech enthusiast submitted majority of the “yahoo boys” are tech savvy whose knowledge could be legitimately deployed to transform the society. “Most of these people that are committing this crime are also tech savvy. You find out that you could even make more money doing tech legally than doing it illegally and involving in crime. “Check all these small companies coming up, they are owned by young people. It is the same amount of time that they use in making legal money in tech that those those making illegal money also use,” he said.