LAGOS – The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, stressing that 2023 is a year of victory for the opposition party once right candidates are fielded. According to a press statement on Friday, signed by Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, CUPP Spokesperson and PDP Chieftain, stated that the Nigerian opposition family received with extreme joy the news of the signing into law of the amended Electoral Act by President Muhammadu Buhari. “Though delayed and allowing for Nigerians to mount pressure calling for assent to the law, the Nigerian opposition coalition is elated that finally, Nigeria has a law that will revolutionize our electoral processes. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… Nigeria Urges Russia To Withdraw Troops From Ukraine “We, therefore, commend President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the Bill thereby creating a new and advanced legal framework for our elections,” the statement noted. The group also commended the National Assembly for commitment and effort at ensuring that the law is amended and that there is no legal backing for some of the innovations introduced by the Independent  National  Electoral Commission (INEC) It also commended the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and Nigerians for not letting go or reducing the pressure on both the National Assembly and the President to sign the Bill. “We also commend the opposition family for holding the government to account on the need to amend the electoral law early enough to allow INEC ample time to implement the law for a free, fair and very credible 2023 general election. :We also commend INEC for its contributions and innovations which led to this very robust amendment to the electoral Act. We also remind the Commission that with today’s assent to the Bill, the ball is now squarely in the court of the Commission to begin in earnest to plan for the elections urging them to release the election timetable soonest to ensure stability and certainty in the process and in the polity,” CUPP said. POLL The group called on all political parties to put their acts together and embrace internal party democracy as this will enable only popular individuals to emerge as candidates of their parties as doing otherwise will lead to their failure as only candidates voted for by Nigerians can now win elections in Nigeria since the 2023 election is highly anticipated to be free, fair and credible.