*Assures Them Of Safe Return To Their Ancestral Homes MAKURDI – Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), operating in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states has distributed food and other sanitary items to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Benue and Nasarawa states. The Force Commander, OPWS, Major General Kevin Aligbe who performed the distribution also assured IDPs in the affected areas that OPWS was doing all it takes to ensure their safe return to their ancestral homes. Edo Ranks Low In Drug Peddling, Abuse – NDLEA Official Association Announces Hike In Satchet Water Price In Ekiti In a statement signed by Flight Officer, Audu Katty, Public Relations Officer (PRO), OPWS and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Monday, Katty explained that the move formed part of it’s non-kinetic measures to restore peace in its Joint Operation Areas (JOA). According to the OPWS spokesman, “Troops have continued to conduct operations, both kinetic and non-kinetic in order to ensure relative peace across the JOA to enable law abiding citizens go about their normal businesses while permitting economic activities to thrive.” “As part of efforts to win the hearts and minds of host communities where troops are deployed across the theatre, on Friday 25th February, 2022, the Force Commander Major General Kevin Aligbe visited some IDP camps in Ortese and Daudu, both Benue as well as Keana in Nasarawa state, where he distributed some food, sanitary and sundry items to the displaced persons.” “In his address to the displaced persons during the visit, the Force Commander promised them that OPWS will work with the various agencies and NGOs to facilitate their safe return to their ancestral homes as soon as practicable.” “In like manner, troops conducted series of meetings with heads of local communities and youth leaders to work out modalities for the maintainance of peace in their domains. POLL “The meetings were aimed at resolving conflicts between warring communities or groups. “Prominent amongst these meetings was the one conducted by troops of Sector 4 at the palace of HRM, the Aku Uka of Wukari, Dr Ishaku Ada Ali on Monday, 22nd February, 2022.” In his remarks at the meeting, the Aku Uka appreciated officers and men of OPWS for their efforts towards maintaining peace and security in Wukari and its environs, urging them to do more in order to rid the area completely of criminal elements. He advised further that troops of OPWS continue to work assiduously to ensure that all law abiding citizens across the JOA enjoy their rights to live peacefully and carry out legitimate activities to earn legitimate living. Beneficiaries of the items at the IDP camps thanked the Force Commander for visiting them and donating food items to them.