Minna – The police in Niger have confirmed the attack on Galadima Kogo in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state which claimed 10 lives four personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and six civilians. The NSCDC personnel, who were said to be on rescue mission to a nearby village, unknowingly ran into improvised explosive device () with their patrol vehicle. Niger State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Monday Bala Kuryas, told journalists on phone that IEDs were the handiwork of terrorist groups operating in the area. 2023: S-South APC Lawmakers Endorse Yahaya Bello For President Northern Forum Rescinds Call For Sack Of NNPC Management Kuryas painted a pathetic picture of the incident that claimed 10 lives in the early hours of Monday. “The gunmen invaded the community in the early hours of Monday in several motorcycles, first burnt down eight houses as well as the three buildings housing the Joint Security Task Force that is under renovation after last month’s attack in the area,” he narrated. Already, a combined detachment of police tactical squad and the military have been deployed in the troubled area and have commenced manhunt for the armed men with a view to tracking them down. “We are appealing to residents to assist security personnel deployed to the area with reliable information that could aid in apprehending the miscreants,” Kuryas said. While assuring citizens that efforts were being made to end the siege by the armed men, Kuryas said, “We are all out to deal with any person or group of people undermining the peaceful atmosphere of our area.” Also speaking on the security situation in the area, Chairman of Shiroro Local Government Area, Mallam Suleiman Chukuba, said the attack was launched by members of Boko Haram, considering the sophistication of the weapons they were seen carrying, including the explosives. POLL “These are the handiwork of Boko Haram, not armed bandits because they were heavily equipped with sophisticated weapons including explosive devices. This morning Civil Defence vehicle ran into one of the explosive devices, their vehicle was destroyed and many of them died,” he added. The chairman explained that the NSCDC personnel were on their way to one of the communities in Shiroro Local Government Area to ascertain the level of destruction by the gunmen before they ran into the explosive devices. “Only two out of the number of NSCDC in the vehicle survived the explosion and are in critical condition, receiving treatment at a government facility in Minna, the state capital,” he said. The chairman, who lamented the sustained attacks by the combined forces of ISWAP, Boko Haram and armed bandit/ Fulani militia, said, “As I speak to you now, several buildings were affected, everything was set ablaze and the entire community for now is deserted.” Ebonyi Assembly Declares Dep. Speaker’s Seat Vacant, Elects… Why Buhari Is Delaying Assent To Electoral Bill — Presidency The council chairman said, “Right now we cannot ascertain the total number of people that have been killed; the situation is quite serious and the entire area has been deserted.”