Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, former Senate President and ex-Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), in this interview monitored on Arise TV, speaks on why he wants to become the next president of Nigeria on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP). TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: You are aspiring to be Nigeria’s president; what will you bring to the table if elected? I will start by saying that I know what Nigeria’s problems are and what the solutions are. I will say briefly that it is going to be my commitment to rebuild the country and when I talk about rebuilding the country, we have a whole lot of things to talk about, some people will get up and say they will re-calibrate the security architecture, I think they are missing the point. Ahead June 18: Ekiti’s Tale Of Two Rancorous Party… Ezendigbo, Ndigbo Laud Governor Makinde, Olubadan-In-Council For me, I believe we have some fundamental issues that we need to address. We need to have a consensus on the structure of the country. We also need a consensus on the dream of the country, the ideals and we also need to have a consensus on developmental systems that will work for us. So for me, the first step I will take is to build concept consensus. People have to understand that it is not a matter of generating policies and throwing it at the people; the success of any policy will depend on how much the people were able to buy into it, and to buy into it, you need to harvest the perspectives of the various segments of the society to a point that there is a consensus. I want to say that the idea of the consultations which I am presently doing is to harvest the perspectives of the different stakeholders in this country and I want to say that if I am elected as president, this consensus will work for all of us. I am convinced that the 21st century, particularly in the second half of the 21st century we are moving into, the drivers of the economy will be industrialisation and manufacturing, talent and innovation and technology. These will be the key drivers of the second half of the 21st century and I will develop these and prepare Nigeria to fit into the fourth industrial revolution. That will make the economy more dynamic and competitive and it will diversify the economy. I will also focus on the enablers of development, those things that promote development, like security, education, governance issues, and by this I mean consistent policies, regulatory issues and the legal framework. These issues are critical to make the economic pillars work. If I become the president of Nigeria, I will approach rebuilding Nigeria from these perspectives. The doubts people have on why many administrations have failed is because they just wake up and throw a policy on the people, but I can say that from my experience in government, I have seen how various governments approached these issues, the ones that worked and the ones that didn’t. Talking about consensus, are we going to have another constitutional conference? Again, why should Nigerians trust you; they know you as a senator from Ebonyi State, who became President of the Senate and then Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF)? POLL Whether we are going to have another national conference is not the issue. I think Nigeria has had enough, however, if that is the desire of the Nigerian people, no problem about that. But I think we have enough documents; the problem is getting everybody to agree that the way to go is acceptable to all. It is not really about organising another conference, but about saying okay, this is your perspective as you have presented it; can we reach any compromise, so it is not about what anybody feels but about what we agree to do. My commitment is to do the will of the Nigerian people. When you ask why the people should trust me; if you know my history that question will not arise. I was President of the Senate, I inherited a very troubled Senate and was able to bring stability there and I want to say I will bring stability to the country. I was SGF and was able to help the president through issues that actually brought a balance to the federation. That is something Nigerians are missing today. I assisted President Goodluck Jonathan to bring what Nigerians are missing today. I think I am that one Nigerian, who can find home anywhere in the country. I started my career in Sokoto where I did my national youth service and there is no part of the country that I go to that I am not at ease. If I earned the trust of Nigerians as President of the Senate, earned their trust as SGF, I think I will be better as president of Nigeria. Being President of Nigeria requires a lot of decision making, what are the parameters that will influence how you as an individual will make decisions? What will inform your decision to trust people and what informs your decision to go with them even when they have done wrong? What I can tell you is that nobody is a saint, but the parameter of choosing who to work with will be competence, capacity and experience; there are characters you can see, the other ones you cannot see and you will be diligent to monitor the performance of each person. When any person moves away from your vision, you should be able to call him to order or make a change. In decision making, I want to emphasise that it is not a matter of one man rule but collective will of the people. That is the governance I want to put on the table. The buck stops on my table but there must be enough consultation, it is my duty to ensure that I have enough buy-in from the people before deploying any policy. I want to believe those are the demands of democracy. I also want to believe that is what a country as diverse as Nigeria requires. You have been going around the country consulting certain leaders; Ohanaeze Ndigbo is quoted to have said that when the time is right, it will invite all of you from the South- East and perhaps see if some of you will step down. There are already three of you from the zone who are prominent; will you be willing to step down for any other aspirant? In my consultations, I discovered that some past leaders share concern on the future of the country and it was necessary that I share views with them, harvest their perspective and see how I can use their views to forge ahead. I will not call them the owners of Nigeria but I can call them concerned former leaders. My consultations so far are encouraging. What I discovered is that everybody wants the best for the country. There are few issues of where one comes from, but we all want what is best for Nigeria. On what Ohanaeze Ndigbo said, it is not to my knowledge, I didn’t have that communication. We may come from the South-East, but we are looking to rule Nigeria, so whoever must be the president of Nigeria must not be somebody hand-picked by the South-East. My concern is to make myself acceptable to the South-East, North-East, South-West, South-South, North-West and North Central because I am seeking to be the president of Nigeria. BREAKING: Importers Of Off-Spec Petrol Must Be Punished –… Group Petitions APC Leadership, Accuses Akpabio Of Anti-Party… I can say straight away that a candidate will emerge at the primary election and I don’t see how any ethnic group can come to the primary to decide who will be their candidate or ask somebody they would have preferred to be their candidate to step down.I don’t know how that will work. Many people are calling for a president of Igbo extraction and they say it has happened before in 1999 when both candidates at the election were from the South-West. They are also calling for equity, fairness and justice, especially as they feel that the South-East is marginalised in the current political dispensation. What do you say to that? I will say that the issue of equity, fairness and justice is a fundamental issue. The fundamental issue of equity is captured in chapter two of the constitution and section 13 mandates every government agency to commit to applying the principles of equity. It also says that every aspect of national governance must reflect federal character. That is what we are saying. We are saying that the presidency has been to the North, it is the turn of the South and that makes sense. In the PDP, which is my party, it is also in our constitution. Section 7(3)(c) is clear on rotational zoning, it is a fundamental principle of the PDP. When in 1999, the two presidential candidates were from the South- West and Chief Olusegun Obasanjo eventually won, he was president of Nigeria not president of the South- West and much of his votes were from outside South-West; in fact, the South- West didn’t vote for him and that is why anybody aspiring should know he ought to be a candidate of the country and not of any ethnic group.