Frank Lampard expressed concern over Everton’s lack of belief following their shockingly inept performance at Southampton today that condemned them to their 13th defeat of the season and kept them dangerously close to the bottom of the Premier League. The Blues fell away badly after making a decent start to the contest at St Mary’s and were eventually beaten 2-0 thanks to costly individual errors and a porous midfield that allowed Stuart Armstrong and Shane Long to plunder goals in the second half. Just as was the case at Newcastle 11 days ago, a handsome home win was followed by a horrendous display on the road and while Lampard is disappointed by the inconsistency and weak mentality shown by his new charges, he insisted that, collectively, the team will work to get better. Wan-Bissaka Faces Fight For Man Utd Future After Dalot contract… Clinical Kane Throws Liverpool Title Lifeline With Dramatic… “The minute games turn against us, we haven’t seen a reaction,” the 43-year-old admitted. “We stopped trying to play. When the game turned we reverted to type and lacked belief. We have to have a belief in what we’re doing. “[It was a] good first 15, 20 minutes and a good start to the second half but the rest of it I wasn’t crazy on,” Lampard admitted. “[It was] 0-0 at half-time so we’re still in the game but we’ve seen what we can do last week and I hate inconsistency. “There’s reasons for it… and the players and myself have to put that right. It wasn’t good enough today. It was a day when you’ve got to dig in, win second balls and be much more comfortable on the ball than we we were. “We didn’t support each other, we didn’t play with quality, we made mistakes. So lots of bits for us to work go over. As much as we could enjoy a good win last week we’ve got to go over a not good performance.” Admitting that despite the Brazilian being a “warrior player” in an important part of the pitch, Lampard said that replacing Allan at half-time was the only option, given that the player had been walking a disciplinary tightrope since the 15th minute when he picked up a yellow card. POLL While his replacement, André Gomes, had an awful second half, the manager insisted that it wasn’t a “one-player situation” but that the whole team just wasn’t good enough on the day. Asked how he and his staff plan to eradicate the inconsistency from Everton’s game which has seen them win their home games under the new manager but twice lose badly away from home, Lampard replied: “Work. A bit of time and work. It’s not always easy to talk about time in the Premier League because I’ve walked into a situation where we need results but, at the same time, there is no magic wand to change things instantly. “It means work, it means focus every day. You’re only as good as [how hard] you work and prepare. Until this point I thought we’d got that right but today was a reminder of why we’re in the position we’re in, so there was a lot of things for me to see there today. “It’s [about] belief,” Lampard continued when asked whether the reaction on behalf of the players to going behind was a concern. “The players have to feel that themselves, all of them. [When] you go behind, there’s only so many subs you can make to change the game. As a group, you have to have belief. Emmanuel Dennis Ends Watford’s Winless Run At Aston Villa Klopp Sets Diaz Liverpool Challenge After Salah, Sadio Praise “It’s tough to turn that corner. It’s very easy [when you fall behind] to sink back into ways of playing longer [balls] and the team getting stretched, things that we addressed very quickly but in moments we’ve seen them come back so, but by bit, we’ll get that right.” The defeat means there are just five points between Everton in 16th and Norwich on the bottom of the Premier League and Lampard was under no illusions about the fact that the Toffees are in a battle for survival over the remaining 15 matches of the season. “I think it’s really clear isn’t it?” he said “The position we’re in in the table is clear, it’s not something we have to debate. As a team and a staff we just have to work on getting results to improve our position. “When we won last week things looked a lot better and we’ve lost today and it looks worse. But I don’t think we have to deny our position. Our league position explains a lot and is one of the reasons I’m here. It’s my job to find the reasons why this has happened. “When we have been great we have backed ourselves, but the minute games turn against us there can be a mentality issue for the players. And I can totally understand confidence issues, but the only way to come out of that is through work and application. “We are focused on the job in hand. We have to have a belief in what we’re doing, the home games have shown that. “Today was really eye-opening in the second half, of where we are and where we want to get to. It felt like reverting to type a little bit after we conceded, and I want to change that. So, there’s lots to learn for us.”