AKURE – Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been described as the appropriate person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari because he has the wherewithal to fix the nation’s multifaceted challenges. This was the position of Osinbajo Grassroot Organization, Ondo State chapter while unveiling and launching the campaign group for the emergence of the vice president as the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) and subsequently winner of the 2023 presidential election. Addressing a large crowd of members of the group in Akure, the state capital on Saturday, the Director General of Osinbajo Campaign Council, Ondo State, Barrister Ifeolu Fasoranti, said the vice president would turn around the socio-economic and political situations of the country if he’s given the opportunity by the electorate. Uzor Kalu To Other Presidential  Aspirants: No Threat, Meet Me… 2023: Anyim Takes Consultation To S’West, Meets Adams,… He said: “We believe that as President, Prof. Osinbajo will harness all the resources and rejig the system to work towards the interest of Nigeria rather than the interest of individuals. “With his vast experiences in the academics, Law, governance and administration, Prof. Osinbajo has fashioned out many programmes that will effectively address the challenges confronting this nation. “No doubt, he will be a bridge between the old and the new, between the North and the South, between the East and the west. He will be a connecting valve among all religious beliefs.” Fasoranti noted that the group’s choice of the vice president becoming president was based on the principal that he would drive the economy of the country aright and be totally detribalized, doing everything in the interest of the nation. He noted that without trying to ruffle feathers, the nation needed an energetic, fearless, truthful , focused leader with conscience and vision to direct its affairs. POLL The group coordinator, therefore, disclosed that many prominent elder statesmen, notable selfless and patriotic leaders and compatriots were already committed to the course.