The Nigerian Customs Service on Monday was handed down a N3.6 trillion revenue target for the 2022 fiscal year. The House of Representatives Committee on Customs and Excise, led by Hon. Leke Abejide handed down the target during the 2022 budget defence exercise with the agency. The Committee also approved the sum of N364bn as overheard, personnel and capital expenditures respectively for the fiscal year. US Response To Security Guarantee Proposals Cannot Satisfy… Tight Oil Market Could See Prices Hit $125 In Q2 – JP… Abejide while presiding over the session said the revenue projection of N1.465 trillion by the Nigeria Customs Service for the 2021 fiscal year was too low, insisting that it must be raised to an acceptable level in 2022 with a view to surpassing same. However, the Customs boss, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) countered saying that his men generated the sum of N2.241 trillion in the 2021 fiscal year, as against its initial projection of N1.465 trillion. Ali said while the targeted projection seemed impossible at first, at the end of 2021, the Nigeria Customs Service collected the sum of N2.241 Trillion. Hon. Abejide however insisted that the NCS has the capacity to do more than it has done and should therefore raise the bar. This was even as he commended the agency for its achievement in the previous year despite many challenges, and the need to best that in the current year. POLL “The Budget Defence of 2021 where the CGC presented the sum of N1.465 Trillion, was too low compared to the parameters prevailing at the time, such as reduction and removal of 35% levy on new automobile, devaluation of the Naira by the CBN, and unavailability of vaccines that made many economies hitherto closed to be opened. He assured the agency of the committee’s support to ensure that it overcome its teething challenges with regards to ease of operation, manpower and welfare of personnel, adding with all that support, it won’t be out of place for the House and Nigerians to demand the sum if N3.6 trillion from the Customs in 2022. He also noted that, the recent circular which emanated from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) which raised the threshold of service-wide for MDAs on contract awards, will be unforgivable for any Agency not to perform better by the end of the year. “This Committee wants to inform CGC and his team that we shall not accept that presentation of 2023 Budget Proposal if there is no significant performance in 2022 capital projects,” Abejide threatened. “It is compulsory for all Ministries, Departments, and Agencies to do this before spending a dime. Any unappropriated funds cannot be spent by MDAs by law”, he said. A’Ibom Tasks Immigration Service On Illegal Immigrants,… WAEC Releases WASSCE Private Candidates Results, Records 49%… According to him, “there was a Referral to this Committee from the plenary to look into the collapse of the Scanners in all the Ports and from the House’s findings during public hearing and during our tours of various Ports, this committee discovered from the manufacturers that 13 out of 22 scanners can be upgraded to standard and still serve the nation for the next 10 years, which the manufacturer’s Technical Partner agreed to sign undertakings on.” “The committee on Customs of both Chambers, (Senate and the House) have concluded that reasonable amount, enough to put back into use of the 13 scanners be appropriated out of the N27 Billion surplus from the 2021 Collections. “The Customs Committee will leave a legacy behind for the Nigeria Customs, and we shall call for Smith Detection company to do the needful by giving us and your Technical team on the budget the cost which we shall look into and incorporate into the 2022 Budget,” he added. He stressed further that the committee understand that e-customs is coming with 135 scanners but we cannot throw away National assets and also we cannot continue to wait endlessly for e-customs that has not commenced. He urged the CGC to capture corporate responsibility in the next budget so that communities where Nigeria Customs and even people that work with Customs can have a sense of belonging or take ownership of the agency. He also assured the agency that any information he need and assistance to tackle smugglers shall be provided by the people easily, “but for now the NCS is seen as an outcast by these societies, they feel you only want something out of their area with little or no concern about their welfare.” He said the Nigeria army does much more of Corporate Social responsibility for the general public and their hosts, and other Revenue Generating Agencies, which is why that acrimony and attacks against them are reported less. Speaking to the CGC and his team, the Lawmaker harped on the need to change the Budget cycle of the NCS to fall in line with national budget. He directed that, the NCS Budget should be made available from mid November, so that the House committee on Customs will be able to work on it and pass it every December or before embarking on Christmas and New year break. “If you notice, it is only the NCS Budget that suffers delay into First Quarter and even sometimes, into the Second Quarter,” he queried. With grave concern, the Lawmaker discouraged the trend, said, the CGC should be able to perform the area capital projects. He suggested that the CGC and Management his Team, especially, the department saddled with responsibility of executing the capital projects to implement capital projects in phases. He urged that whatever the CGC and his management team, especially the department saddled with the responsibility of executing the capital projects to implement the capital projects in phases,and whatever the Management team of the CGC collect as their 7% collection and 60% of the 1% CISS meant for the capital projects for the year under review should be used. He emphasized that, whatever comes in from 1st January to 31 March 2022, should be used by April for the first critical projects making, and use of the window open for the MDAs by Federal Executive Council (FEC) for performance. “We understand with you that, you are having delays in getting the portion of the CISS which belongs to you, this is a pointer for us as a House committee on customs to work assiduously together to get Customs and Excise Management Bill which has gone through First, Second, and Public Hearing stages to be passed latest by March 2022 so that whatever belongs to the NCS such as the 4% FOB shall be a front line charge which means the fund comes to the NCS account directly,” Abejide added.