MICHAEL OLADAPO The Delta Central Senatorial District is currently under political apprehension due to the zoning of the Governorship seat. The tussle to stake a claim amongst several stakeholders in the district has further heated the polity in the race for the flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Osun APC: Can Aregbesola Give Oyetola The Ambode Treatment ? I Regret Working For Oyetola Becoming Governor In 2018 –… Recently, result emanating from the tables of the Urhobo renowned group DC-23 on the screening of aspirants for the 2023 Governorship election in the state which held on February 6, 2023 has received mixed feelings from PDP members in the state. While some applauded the action of the group saying it helped in reducing tension, others kicked against the disqualification of some aspirants from participating in the race. The group led by Senator Ighoyota Amori embarked on what it termed as screening of governorship aspirants from the Delta Central District in PDP. Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, Olorogun David Edevbie, Rt Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori, Chief James Augoye, Senator Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, Fred Majemite were amongst those who were screened by DC-23. The results of the screening committee headed by Secretary of the Screening/ Pruning Committee of DC-23, Prof. Sunny Awhefeada which was released on February 7, 2023 met a brick wall. In the results released by the lobby group, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, Olorogun David Edevbie, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori were all screened to take part in the PDP Governorship primary elections while others were screened out to contest. POLL Leader of the group, Ighoyota Amori knowing the backlash that would face the results from the screening, described all the aspirants as “winners and heroes” . He maintained that the screening was done after painstaking assignments by the committee, while upholding fairness and transparency without fear or favour. The lobby group hence, called for the adoption of the three aspirants by political leaders and stakeholders in the state to the detriment of the other aspirants who were infamously screened out without even making it to the primaries. Despite subjecting themselves to the screening of DC-23, aspirants who were screened out of the governorship primaries disagreed with the results of the screening. Former Commissioner of Works, Chief James Augoye was the first to disregard the results of the screening, saying that “I am still in the Delta 2023 governorship race”. Another aspirant, Senator Emmanuel Aguariavwodo has since continued his political consultations following the release of the results by the committee, has laughed off the criteria used by the screening committee in arriving at its conclusion. 2023 Presidential Election: Ogbara Kafilat Organizes Prayer… Tinubu Will Emerge Next Nigeria President, Says Council Boss The screening results released by the group have been deemed to depict the political yearnings of high ranking political stakeholders in the Delta Central. Also, the decision of DC-23 lobby group has also received backlash from the Delta Central political Elders and Leaders of Thought (DCPELT), who in a letter to the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa requested for the rejection and investigation of the DC- 23 committee screening report on pruning of Delta Central PDP 2023 Governorship aspirants. In a letter signed by Dr. Adogbeji Ideh, Chief P. Akaighe, Chief Eddie Ono-Sorhue, the group stressed that the transparency of the results were faulty due to cash inducements received by members of the screening committee. The group identified the ploy to screen out some aspirants as a means to disturb the smooth transition that will usher in a qualified successor from the Urhobo extraction. They said ,”We firmly believe that it is quite expedient that such a person should possess remarkable integrity, reasonable competence, requisite experience and general acceptance of the electorate that can consolidate on your laudable achievements of the SMART Agenda and unite the State. We wish to therefore dissociate ourselves from the subject, which has expectedly generated needless controversy, capable of creating further disaffection within the Party due to the manipulative selection process eventually deployed by the Screening Committee of the lobby group DC-23, deliberately designed to exclude the “best of the lot” and foist persons of questionable character on the Party in a political ambush to serve selfish interests. “We have indeed received several reports of mouthwatering monetary inducements of the Screening Committee members by the beneficiaries of this charade and wish to crave your indulgence to carry out an independent investigation to substantiate the veracity of these weighty allegations, in order to properly guide your anticipated action on this issue. We are strongly canvassing for further assessment of intending governorship aspirants on the basis of competence, experience, loyalty and vision of purpose, using recognized organs of the Party, which we also believe that the Final List would not ordinarily exclude the likes of Sen. Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, Chief James Augoye and Omizu Ejaife Odebala, going by their known antecedents, expressed intentions and ongoing consultation efforts. “We are therefore soliciting your kind cooperation to disregard the outcome of the exercise conducted by the DC-23 lobby group in the true spirit of fairness by deploying available instruments of your office as the State Party Leader, towards ensuring the emergence of a flag bearer that meets the yearnings and aspirations of most political stakeholders in the current dispensation, all in a bid to guarantee victory for the Party at the general elections next year. We remain committed to your patriotic quest of finishing strong and bequeathing a lasting legacy to all Deltans. Likewise, in attack of the decision taken by DC-23, Delta Fresh Vision (DFV), group has questioned the legal powers of DC-23 to screen out aspirants. The group led by Mr Fred Akpewe said, “It is not an electoral body and has no legal powers. Many of the aspirants that have been screened out by DC-23 screening committee will contest the PDP governorship primaries and this would lead to an implosion in the DC-23 camp”. Though the Chairman of the PDP, Delta State, Barr. Kingsley Esiso is yet to make any pronouncement in line with the results of the screening held by DC-23; it is believed that there is no party law that disenfranchises aspirants from contesting the governorship elections based on the screening carried out by DC- 23. On several occasions, Esiso maintained that all aspirants would be given equal level playing ground to chase their political ambition. There has been relatable silence from the camp of the DC-23 received backlash from aspirants who were screened out. The die has been cast and going by all indication aspirants who were screened out by the lobby group would be allowed according to party laws to contest the governorship primaries. With the division in the camp of DC-23, there are notions that the screening process that brought forth three candidates could be cancelled and further investigated to ensure all aspirants have equal level playing ground. Moreover, the decision of the incumbent, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to queue behind an aspirant that is not in the circle of those picked by DC-23 would unanimously ridicule the powers of the group, as Okowa has stated severally, “ I will not be pressured to pick a successor”