Human rights activist and Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Dr. Tunji Abayomi has declared that the nation could not progress with the 1999 constitution. In an open letter to political leaders in the country, he said a new constitution that would guarantee good governance for the greater interest of the citizenry and not the reviewing or amending 1999 Constitution was inevitable for the nation to progress. The letter entitled: “What we need, What needs to be done,”  Dr. Abayomi said the 1999 Constitution came by dictatorship and force and could never guarantee peace, order or good government, noting it’s important a new constitution is drafted. Adagbonyi’s Appointment As AAU VC Excites NANS COEASU Threatens Fresh Strike Over FG’s Delay to Pay N15bn… The constitutional lawyer tasked legislators be sincere with the people by dropping what he described as “worthless amendments for a worthwhile Constitution making for the people.” The letter reads in parts: “How do you amend a military Constitution to originate it in the people, the proper and legitimate makes of the Constitution? “So contrary to the norms in democracy, it was not a Constitution that gave us our democracy at least in 1999. It was a military government of dictators that wrongly gave us a Constitution and a government. Time has indeed come to correct this grievous error and the only body that can legitimately remedy the error of Constitutional wrong-making is the National Assembly. “To unlock the great potentials of the Nigeria what is now needed is for the National Assembly as a public duty to learn the lessons of change that the political leaders of other nations have learnt by bringing about a law to enable the people of Nigeria to truly give to themselves a Constitution.” Dr. Abayomi, however, called on elder statesmen, stakeholders and political leaders in the country to see to how a new constitution is prepared, emphasising that “the destiny of Nigeria is in her Constitution and the current Nigeria Constitution is a fraud on the people of the nation. POLL “In short what Nigeria needs is a Constitution of the people, by the people and for the people. It is certainly reasonable and sensible that we should have a consensus on how to manage Nigeria our collective.”