LAGOS – The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, a former governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Tinubu have applauded the translation of Nigeria’s constitution in three indigenous languages, describing it as a feat and effort to help Nigerians realize their rights as citizens. Oba Adeyemi and other top dignitaries at the launch of the Nigerian constitution into three languages all agreed that the interpretation of the constitution will help people to read it in their local language and come to a conclusion whether the constitution is working or not. The traditional ruler and others made this commendation as the Prince Ade Ajayi Foundation, Centre for Constitutional Literacy and Civic Education, translated Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution into Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo languages and the Naija Patriots Constitution app, which contains the audio format of the constitution. Those Abusing Tinubu For Consulting With IBB Are Politically… BREAKING: Tinubu In Kano On Condolence Visit The event also featured the inauguration of the maiden edition of the Naija Patriots Award, an award to celebrate 100 patriotic Nigerians for their contributions to various aspects of our nation. During the unveiling and launching of the translated constitution, Alaafin called for the restructuring of the Nigerian constitution, saying Nigeria cannot progress or maximise its enormous potential until it restructures and goes back to regionalism. He added that the Nigerian constitution is not working because it was drafted by the Military. “Nigeria was regionalised in 1954 and that was the perfect strategy of what we want because regions were autonomous and then we had a good central and strong region. Through the regional provision in 1954, we had our own constitution and law in the Western region as we are the first region to create parliamentary department, the first to have Attorney General and Minister of Justice.” While lauding the initiator of the project, Prince Ade Ajayi for translating the nation’s constitution into indigenous languages for better understanding, the monarch said: “For a young man to have translated the constitution of Nigeria 1999 as amended into three major languages is a feat and this is because it is an opportunity for Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo people to read the constitution in their local language and come to a conclusion whether the constitution is working or not.” Alaafin however expressed disappointment over the absence of many invited dignitaries at the event. He said: “ I am a little disappointed that those who are supposed to be here are not here, the Nigeria constitution needed to be worked upon to allow restructuring for the nation to make progress.” POLL The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu described the efforts of Ajayi as laudable and apt, especially at this time in the nation’s history.Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Development Agenda for Western Nigeria, Eng. Adekunle Olayinka, said: “It will have a far-reaching impact in governance.It will make people know their rights and act on them. You will begin to see reactions now, even from people on the streets. Also, a former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, said that broadening the understanding of Nigerians about the constitution, especially with the translation of the document into three indigenous languages, was a big and laudable job.The former Governor who was represented by Mr Ademola Sadiq, the immediate past Lagos State Legal Adviser of the All Progressives Congress, said, “It is always better when everybody is aware of his rights, duties and obligations to the state because most people only talk on their rights forgetting their own duties and obligations to the government too. Prince Ade Ajayi deserves all the praises and commendations,” he said. The convener of the project and President of PAAF, Prince Ade Ajayi, said that the project on constitutional literacy, which had scaled through all odds and finally emerged a reality, was aimed at creating Nigeria of everyone’s dream.Describing constitution as fundamental in the existence and development of a country, Ajayi averred that many Nigerians did not even know the constitution nor read it,“We must start this movement from a document that binds us as a country, that is; The constitution, in order to build the nation of our dreams.“According to our research, we find out a good percentage of Nigerians do not even know the constitution nor ever read it,” he said.Ajayi said that the book, ‘I Love Nigeria My Country’, was to build and ignite love toward the nation and change the perception and behavioural approach of Nigerians to the country. According to Ajayi, if Nigerians are well informed about the country and the constitution, “The book talks about the nation’s past, present and the future all Nigerians are yearning to see. When all Nigerians are educated about this country and our constitution, we will be able to vote well-informed legislators through local, state and federal government in order to make very necessary amendments that are instrumental for our development without war.” DAILY INDEPENDENT reports that the Keynote Speech was delivered by the Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe who was represented by Prof. Akanbi Mudashiru Ilupeju.