JOS – Senator representing Plateau South in the National Assembly Professor Nora Ladi Dadu’ut at the weekend distributed empowerment items worth millions of Naira to 600 of her constituents. Dadu’ut had recently distributed power tillers, motorcycles, tricycles, sewing machines, grinding machines, Knapsacks and water pumps for dry season farming to several farmers, among other items. Speaking at the distribution ceremony on Saturday, Senator Dadu’ut said the gesture is her own way of showing appreciation to her constituents for finding her worthy to represent them in the senate. APC Youths Mobilise 20,000 For Calabar Summit, Demand Better… Northern Cities To Experience Dust Haze, NiMet Warns Dadu’ut so far has empowered over 8,000 of her constituents since she was elected Senator representing Plateau South over a year ago. In her words: “As you are aware in my manifesto, I pledged to focus on the priority areas of agriculture, education, women and Youths empowerment, health, human capital development in line with my commitment to deliver on the dividends of democracy to the good people of my constituency. The senator called on her constituents and the people of the state to support the Simon Lalong led administration. Dadu’ut stressed that she has enjoyed tremendous support from them and this has inspired her to do more for them. Professor Daduut appreciated the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal government for his economic policies stressing that her prima responsibility and desire is to add value to the livelihoods of the people and communities of Plateau Southern Senatorial district. POLL It would be recalled that recently Senator Dadu’ut facilitated N60 million COVID-19 intervention fund for 1,000 members of her constituency as well as constructed blocks of classrooms, healthcare facilities, motorized hand borehole, modern toilet facilities and solar panel streets light in Shendam, Mikang and Quanpan LGAS. She called on her constituents to stay peacefully with one another and build a prosperous Plateau South Senatorial District. Plateau state First Lady Regina Lalong in her address at the event, lauded Senator Prof Nora Ladi Daduut for the good work she is doing in the state Represented by Rebecca Sambo, commissioner of women affairs in the state, Regina Lalong pledged to support Senator Dadu’ut in order for her to continue to provide dividends of democracy to the people of the Senatorial district.