IBADAN – No fewer than 3,000 books have been donated to Agodi Correctional Library to ease the learning of inmates at the Center. The books were donated by two Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), the Centre for Gender Health and Social Rehabilitation (CentgendHSR) and Nigeriaconnects Briefing journalists on the importance of the donation, Managing Director of CentgendHSR, Dr Oluwatoyin Ilesanmi, said that the donation was aimed at improving learning and ensuring that no life of inmates was wasted or routed as a result of incarceration. UK Bans Russian Airlines From Entering British Airspace, Russia… Joe Biden To Nominate Ketanji Brown Jackson For US Supreme Court Ilesanmi said incarceration of the inmates in the correctional centre does not mean that they should not read, learn, acquire degree certificates and live meaningful lives. She maintained that the gesture was to rehabilitate, reform and rebuild the inmates so that they too could live meaningful life anytime they were released. Ilesanmi said that the books would assist the inmates in reading to further their education, pass examinations and compete with others in society. The managing director said the NGO would soon equip the library with computers, projectors and photocopiers to facilitate e-learning, as obtained at Kirikiri correctional centre. She said that equipping correctional facilities’ libraries by the group was not limited to Nigeria, stressing that it had equally been done in Liberia, while that of Ghana was on course. POLL Ilesanmi, while appreciating those individuals and organisations that had been assisting the group, called for more support from kind-hearted Nigerians in expanding the correctional facility’s library to make learning more conducive for the inmates. In his remarks, the Deputy Controller in charge of the facility, Babatunde Olushola, represented by his assistant, Oluwatosin Otubu, appreciated the donors for the gesture. Olushola said the donation was timely, adding that the inmates had participated in more than four external examinations and recorded 80 per cent success. Members of the Adetunji family also joined the NGOs in donating books, generators and bookshelves to the correctional facility. Speaking on behalf of the Adetunjis, Mr Lukman Adetunji, said that the family decided to donate the items in memory of their deceased parents. Concerned Nigerians’ Adeyanju Lauds Buhari For Signing… NFVCB Engages Stakeholder On Film Contents Adetunji pledged that the family would further assist the centre in other areas of needs.