ABUJA – Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel on Monday received the backing of professionals and businessmen from the state over his choice of successor ahead of the 2023 general elections. Recall that the governor had recently announced the State Commissioner for Land and Water Resources, Pastor Uno Eno, as his preferred successor ahead of the 2023 governorship election in the state. This step by the governor, which had generated some controversy in the state, has been described by the professionals and businessmen, as bold and courageous step. Delta Ex-ALGON Chairman Declares Interest In House Of… Confirmation Of Gumus, APC Member As INEC Commissioner, Coup… Addressing journalists after its meeting in Abuja, the group, under the aegis of Professionals For Development in Akwa Ibom, described the choice of Pastor Eno by Governor Emmanuel as “a reflection of the shared expectation of the people in their quest to continue the sustainable peace and development in the State.” The group revealed that contrary to speculations, the choice of Pastor Eno is a product of very wide consultation with critical stakeholders across the State, both within and outside of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). National Coordinator of the group, Engr. Ufot Akan Umoren, noted that Governor Udom Emmanuel has saved Akwa Ibom the stress of unnecessary partisan contestations which would have caused the state huge financial and social losses adding that the choice of Pastor Eno is the right step to ensure the consolidation and continuation of the laudable achievements of the governor. Umoren said: “After an extensive meeting today, we are unanimous in commending Governor Udom Emmanuel for the choice of Pastor Eno as his preferred successor. It is a step in the right direction and reflects the quest of the people for a governor that will walk in the footprints of Governor Emmanuel and continue in providing the peace, stability and development we enjoy under him today. “Contrary to speculations in some quarters, the choice of Pastor Eno is a product of very extensive consultations across the State. Governor Udom Emmanuel has helped the PDP to get it right again on the candidate for the 2023 governorship election because with Pastor Eno, the election will be a straight victory for the PDP and the people of Akwa Ibom State. POLL “We commend Governor Emmanuel because he has saved Akwa-Ibom from the stress of unnecessary political contestations which would have caused our state huge financial and social losses.” Also speaking, the General Secretary of the group, Dr. Mrs. Emem Akpan, said that with Pastor Eno as Governor Emmanuel’s successor, the continued development and stability of Akwa Ibom State are guaranteed. She stressed that with Pastor Eno’s conduct as Commissioner for Land and Water Resources, there is no doubt he will continue on the path of prudent management of resources, transparency and accountability for which Governor Udom Emmanuel is known. She said: “Govenor Udom Emmanuel is a very meticulous administrator, who has led the state to higher heights and his choice of Pastor Eno is a further reflection of his love and commitment to the state.” The group, which comprises of professionals from all walks of life, urged other governorship hopefuls in the PDP to jettison their personal interests and support Pastor Eno for the general good of the state.