MAKURDI – Dr. Kohol Iornem, President, Mutual Union of Tiv in the United Kingdom (MUTUK) has declared his intention to contest the Kwande/Ushongo Federal constituency seat for the House of Representatives on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. He made his intentions of representing his people at the Lower Chambers of the National Assembly (NASS) know during his visit to party executives, elders and other stakeholder of the PDP in Kwande and Ushongo Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state last weekend. Iornem had earlier picked the membership card of the PDP at Mbakuha council ward of Ushongo LGA of the state, before embarking on consultations towards the realisation of his aspiration. Controversies Trail Ebonyi IPAC Election Umahi Will Fly APC’s Presidential Ticket, Ebonyi Party… During his visit to the two LGAs that make up the constituency, Iornem noted that good representation was possible and that was what he intended to offer the people of the area. He explained that he has been in the UK for sometimes now; learnt the ropes on how to deliver effective representation and would bring it to bear on the people of his constituency. He told stakeholders of the constituency that, “I have lived all my life here (in Nigeria) and did my first degree at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria and left the shores of this country (to UK) to go out there and gain the knowledge of the outside world and bring the experience derived to bear on our people and better their lot. “That is why we need to do the things we have to, in order to represent our people well and I have the capacity to do that. The other aspect is that I use my personal resources to carryout projects. “”And what we have learnt (in the UK) is that when you elect someone to represent you, they do it well and our MP (Member of Parliament) represents us well and rises to the occasion when he is needed and that’s exactly what I intend to do. POLL “So, I believe that if we can do projects out of our meagre resources, without assistance from anyone, I believe that we can use public funds for the purpose for which they are meant and not to divert them to our private pockets. “Hence, I’ve come to solicit your support for the Kwande/Ushongo House of Representatives seat. I have come to tell you to send me on this errand and if you do that I’ll go there; do your bidding and not that of my family members and will not put you to shame. Earlier, the Council of Elders from Ushongo LGA, who are unanimous in the candidature of the MUTUK President and accompanied Iornem on the trip had appealed to their Kwande counterparts, who currently hold the position to relinquish it to an Ushongo son for the next four years. They argued that unlike the Kwande side of the federal constituency, the Ushongo side was yet to have a shot at the position. Responding, the Executive, elders and other stakeholder of the PDP in Kwande and Ushongo LGAs gave Iornem the green light to go ahead and contest for the seat. 2023: Nigeria Owes Southeast So Much, Should Consider Region For… APC To PDP: Sanwo-Olu Doesn’t Need Your Worthless… They however advised him not to forget his roots when he finally clinches the position, adding that his desire should be to address the challenges of his people. They encouraged him to go to the field and seek election and also advised him not to disconnect himself from the will of God for his life.