P/HARCOURT  – The people of Asarama community in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, have cried out at the loss of farmland, loss of waterway and unemployment following the ongoing construction of the Bodo-Bonny Road that cut across their community, despite the appraisals that the project has generated. Chief Macmoses Jiawaireakong, the Chairman, Asarama Divisional Council of Chiefs, while making the lamentation, in a chat with newsmen in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, said that the construction company handling the project has refused to compensate the community, nor recognize the existence of the community. Chief Jiawaireakong while giving the contractor seven days ultimatum to meet their demands, called on the Federal Government handling the road construction, the State Government and other stakeholders from the area to press on the contractor to give the community its due recognition. Bunkering: Rivers Council Boss Blasts Multinationals, Marketers… Oil Spills: NASS Visits Devastated Ogoni Areas The representative of the Federal Ministry of Works attached to the project, Mr. Ben Ekong was quoted as saying that they have been negotiating with Asarama Community since 2017 and that some level of compensation has been paid to them on entities due them. Mr. Ekong emphasised that Federal Government has met and discussed with all the communities affected by the Bonny-Bodo Road project. The N120billion road project which is the second longest linked road in the Niger Delta besides the East/West road is partly funded by the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas, NLNG and the federal government. While the NLNG is expected to cough out 60% part payment, the federal government is to contribute 40 percent of the total project sum. But recently, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike revealed that it was unfair for the President Muhammadu Buhari government to claim that it was only the Federal Government that has paid the 40%. POLL “The contribution for the BODO/Bonny road project is by the NLNG, the states and the federal government”, he at the occasion of sendoff event for the former MD of NLNG, Tony Attah in Port Harcourt.