According to Calciomercato, Italian giants Juventus are keeping tabs on Liverpool and Guinea midfielder Naby Keita going into the summer transfer window. The 27-year-old joined the Reds from RB Leipzig in 2018 and has since made 94 appearances for them, scoring five goals and assisting ten more. Keita has certainly had his moments, but injuries have so far prevented him from showing off his best at Anfield consistently. Mane, Salah Star As Liverpool Run Riot Against Relegated… With Jurgen Klopp’s side seeking to bring in Franck Kessie from AC Milan, Keita could be shown the door on Merseyside. With just a year left on his current deal, the situation could work in Juventus’ favour as they look to rebuild their side. The Guinean is an excellent ball carrier who is capable of scoring goals from midfield and crafting opportunities for others. He will certainly add much zing to a Juventus midfield that has often been found lacking in imagination. Capable of making layoffs, dribbling and linking up well with his teammates, he will certainly add something different to the Bianconeri midfield. Having signed Denis Zakaria and Manuel Locatelli in recent windows, the Old Lady certainly have the right players to provide them with a solid base in the middle of the park. Adding Keita into the mix can free up the 27-year-old to supply the service to Dusan Vlahovic. It can add dynamism to a side that has been overly dependent on Federico Chiesa for inspiration. An attacking midfielder is a priority for Massimiliano Allegri, given the contract situation of Paulo Dybala. The Argentine’s deal runs out in the summer, and as of yet, there is no guarantee that he will pen an extension to stay put in Turin. He has linked up well with Vlahovic in recent weeks, and losing him in the summer will certainly leave Juventus with a hole to fill. Keita earns around €6 million per season at Liverpool, and it remains to be seen if Juventus will match it or offer him an increment. The slower pace and less physical nature of Serie A should certainly aid the player and help him rediscover his best. It would appear that Keita’s future at Anfield could depend on whether Kessie ends up at Liverpool or not. If it will ultimately work in Juventus’ favour remains to be seen.