WARRI – Warri city was agog weekend when Honourable Federal Commissioner, National Assembly Service Commission, Chief Francis Atanomeyovwi, gave out his daughter, former Miss Bridget Ufuoma Atanomeyovwi to her heartthrob, Gift Osaruwense Omiawele, in marriage at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Chapel of Glory at Adesa Ughoton with the reception taking place at Ekpan. The Church wedding was preceded by the Traditional Marriage at the residence of the bride’s father in Ekete with the groom’s parents, family members, friends and well-wishers from Orohi, in Ekpoma, Esan West LGA of Edo State in attendance to fulfil the traditional demands of the union. Speaking during the wedding reception, Hon Bassey Olusegun Etuk, federal Commissioner with the National Assembly Service Commission and Chairman of the reception ceremony, counsel the young couple to put God first in all their life’s undertakings so as to guarantee proper divine guidance and building of a godly home. He noted that all in life is vanity and that only the fear of God could guide one into living a fruitful life devoid of all the troubles and iniquities of this generation. Yemi-Esan Seeks More Participation Of Civil Servants At NISS Lagos Introduces Resident Card, Targets Six Million Registration… Parents of the groom, Elder and Mrs Moses Omiawele, who led the Edo State team to take the worthy daughter of Chief Francis Atanomeyovwi of Ovu, Ethiope East LGA of Delta State, expressed delight with the ceremony, urging the couple to continue in love for one another so as to be role model their generation. He thanked all those who left Edo State to accompany him for the marriage of his son, praying God to bless them with the joy of similar celebrations in life. The Father of the bride, Chief Francis Atanomeyovwi, in his remarks, thanked all those who attended the ceremony from all walks of life, noting that their presence was deeply appreciated by him and his family. ‘’First, let me thank the God of heaven, Jehovah Almighty, for the gift of a day like this when I retain the privilege and honour of giving out my daughter in marriage by my own hand. Many people die before their daughters celebrate this day in such situations, uncles and family members will then take the place of the father in such a ceremony. That I and my wife are alive to see this day is a thing of joy. We return all the thanks and praise to God Almighty. ‘’May I also use this opportunity to thank Engr Ahmed Kadi Amshi, Chairman, National Assembly Service Commission, Hon Babagana Modu, Federal Commissioner, NASC, Abuja, Hon Bassey Olusegun Etuk, Federal Commissioner, NASC, Hon Efe Afe, member, House of Representatives, Abuja, Dr Barr Paul Oweh, Former Commissioner, NASC and current Commissioner, DESOPADEC, Hon Friday Onodjae, former member, Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Justice Iyasere, immediate past Vice Chairman, Udu Local Government Area, for either coming in person, by representation or support in diverse ways. I want to deeply appreciate your company all the way. POLL ‘’How can I forget Barr J.B Lerama, Barr F.O Otobrise, Barr Austin Kudimeh, Dr Emmanuel Emama, Dr Beggins Afe, Rev and Deaconess John Onojakpor, Senior Pastor and Pastor Mrs JohnMark Ighosotu of God’s Delight Gospel Assembly, Free Indeed, Pastor Onos Ofioguma, Evang Macaulay Ugherughe, Engr Collins Ochirue, Elder Moses Ogidiagba, Chief Lucky Ovwigho and many others too numerous to mention. I am grateful to you all.’’ Atanomeyovwi added.