LAGOS – The management of Med-View Airline has denied involvement in the $900,000 2019 hajj airlift scam, saying that the National Hajji Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) paid the sum directly to two service providers in Saudi Arabia. A statement by Isiaq Na-Allah, the Executive Director, Business Development, Med-View Airline said that the fund was never diverted, rather used for the purpose of hajj airlift, which was meant to be. Na-Allah clarified that the $900,000 was paid directly to two service providers in Saudi Arabia; General Authority of Aviation ($400,000 and Taibah Airports Development Company ($500,000) on July 5, 2019 by NAHCON. BREAKING: Passengers To Be Self-quarantined In Dubia As Emirates… FG Approves Resumption Of Flights By UAE Into Nigeria Though, the airline admitted that Alhaji Muneer Bankole, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the airline was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to shed light on the hajj operations contract with NAHCON, but insisted that it never diverted funds meant for the exercise. According to him, the funds were utilised for necessary preparations including aircraft maintenance and payment to service providers. Na-Allah explained that despite the move by some highly placed persons in the country to frustrate the operations of the airline, with late release of funds, Med-View airlifted 4,387 pilgrims from Kaduna, Yobe and Ogun States, stressing that the Pilgrims Boards of those states could be asked necessary questions of the operation. Med-View pointed out that in line with the terms of the contract with NAHCON, a Presidential Committee was also raised to reconcile the differences in payment to Med-View Airline and the number of pilgrims airlifted, and this later metaphorized into a Ministerial Committee, where all issues were resolved. “It is therefore strange for somebody to wake up and go to the rooftop armed trumpets and cymbal for a non-existent scam or diversion of funds all to smear Medview Airline Plc. POLL “Medview Airline is resolute to return to its leadership role in Hajj operations,” he said.