Chelsea are reportedly eyeing a big-money summer swoop for West Ham United star Declan Rice. The Blues didn’t bring in a single player during the recently-concluded January transfer window, despite their title bid faltering in the recent few weeks. The decision to not add to their squad in January could mean only one thing that the club are planning to spend big in the summer transfer window. According to The Athletic, Chelsea are pursuing a trio of players to sign in the summer and West Ham midfielder Declan Rice is at the apex of the list. AS Monaco’s Aurelien Tchouameni and Sevilla’s Jules Kounde are the Blues’ other targets, though there is believed to be intense competition for all three players from Europe’s elite clubs, the report adds. Chelsea, Dortmund In Transfer Race Over Bayern Munich Star,… Thomas Tuchel Could ‘Abandon’ Chelsea Rice, 23, has established himself as one of Premier League’s best midfielders in recent years and is enjoying another fantastic season with West Ham. He has led David Moyes’ side this season, helping them challenge for a place in the top four and reach the Europa League knockout rounds. Chelsea’s interest in Rice probably stems due to their ageing midfield, with Jorginho and N’Golo Kante entering their 30s. Saul Niguez was signed on loan from Atletico Madrid with an option to buy last summer but the Spanish midfielder’s failure to break into Thomas Tuchel’s starting XI is likely to see the Pensioners opt against signing him permanently. Ross Barkley is likely to leave Stamford Bridge at the end of the season after growing frustrated with the lack of opportunities, while Ruben Loftus-Cheek may have to move on from Chelsea to become a guaranteed starter. Thus, a midfielder in the ilk of Rice could be brought in with an eye on the future as well as competing in the present with the current crop of players. Declan Rice has made close to 200 appearances in all competitions for West Ham since making his debut back in 2016. He has grown leaps and bounds over the years and was instrumental in England’s run to the Euro 2020 final last summer. A top tackler, the 23-year-old excels in winning the ball and recycling possession. The England international has a decent turn of pace, can distribute the ball well, snuff out the danger before it gets overwhelming for his side with his game-reading skills and win plenty of aerial duels in the middle of the park. A vocal leader, he acts as the glue between the Hammers’ defence and midfield. POLL Rice could, thus, be the ideal option to be nurtured into the long-term successor for Kante at Chelsea. Apart from Chelsea, the likes of Manchester United and Manchester City have also been credited with an interest in the England international. So, Chelsea will have to move quickly if they are to win the race for Rice’s signature in the summer but given the efficiency with which the Blues operate in the transfer windows, there is a belief that the Stamford Bridge outfit will land their target if they go all out for him.