BENIN – Aborigines of the Oke-Oroma Community in Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area, Edo State, are appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Godwin Obasaki, Oba Ewuare 11 and Security Agencies to intervene in what they described as “unabated harassment of their people” by its neighboring Amagba Community in Oredo local government area of the state by taking all necessary measures to protect their peace loving people. While expressing concern over alleged fresh plan by the Amagba people to invade them, the community also alleged that their people no longer sleep with their two eyes closed. Monday Omorogiuwa, the Secretary, Elders Council of the Oke-Oroma Community, who disclosed this to newsmen in Benin City on Monday said, they have been reliably informed of Amagba’s plans to destroy and chase their people away so as to avail them (Amagba) aggressive access to their ancestral homes. NSCDC Parades Three Suspects For Alleged N2m Fraud How Ashaolu, PDP Chieftain, Died He expressed his grief over the incessant attacks allegedly carried out in the past years that had left many killed and property destroyed. According to the Elders Council secretary, “we have reliably gathered that Amagba community in Oredo Local Government Area and their collaborators have gone to hire militants and mercenaries from a neighboring state to wage war against our community, Oke-Oroma. “Their purpose is to destroy, kill and drive our people away to enable them take over our vast land. “We wish to appeal to Federal Government and the Security agencies to save us from land grabbers. Our community is not for sale”. Omorogiuwa also recalled how Amagba resorted to blackmailing Oke-Oroma before the relevant authorities, describing it as calling a dog a bad name to have access to kill it. POLL He explained that it is in furtherance of Amangba’s all-time quest for territorial expansion, that has birthed most of the rash actions allegedly carried out by the same people against the Oromas. He argued that indigents of the Oroma Community are not foreign settlers from other states as portrayed by amagba before the authority, but aborigines who have lived there for over two centuries. While noting that they have filed a case Challenging the Edo state government’s sudden acquisition of a vast portion of its ancestral land with suit No B/61/22 at the High Court of Justice Benin, but yet to be heard, Omorogiuwa reiterated that, they are law-abiding and deserved to enjoy peaceful possession of their ancestral heritage. It would be recalled that, on December 13, 2018, the High Court Benin, granted an order of interlocutory injunction restricting the Amagba Community and others from further trespassing on Oke Oroma land pending the hearing and determination of the suit. He called on President Buhari, Gov. Obasaki, the Oba of Benin, his Royal Majesty, Ewuare 11, and other relevant authority to intervene and halt the planned moves by the Amagba community to invade them. OPWS Distributes Materials To IDPs In Benue, Nasarawa Edo Ranks Low In Drug Peddling, Abuse – NDLEA Official Meanwhile, the youth leader of Amagba Community, Peter Erimwinose, popularly known as “Ebo Amagba” described the allegations as completely unfounded, saying that Oke-Oroma people are afraid of their shadow. He said, “we are yet to be informed of their allegations officially and as soon as we get that we will respond appropriately and heavens knows that Amagba is a peace loving community” End.