The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, HURIWA has called on the Federal Government to stop the jihadist movement in some parts of Kaduna State which has led to the kidnapping and killing of many residents particularly, Christians. Reacting to the abduction of a Catholic priest, Rev. Father Joseph Shekari of St Monica Catholic Parish, Ikulu Feri, the group lamented the incessant attacks on Christians in some parts of Northern Nigeria, Daily Independent had reported that the abductors who are yet to be identified, have demanded the sum of 60 million naira ransom for the release of the Christian clergy. EU Donates Additional Two Million Doses Of COVID-19 Vaccine To… Rep. Onuigbo Bags Climate Champion Award In a statement issued by its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, HURIWA called for the immediate release of the priest, stressing that government officials are capable of ensuring his unconditional release. The statement reads, “We completely and totally condemn the recent kidnap of a Catholic reverend father in southern Kaduna state which happened about 24 hours ago. We ask that President Mohammed Buhari and the governor of Kaduna State take steps to ensure that the continuous attacks and violence unleashed on the people of southern Kaduna who are mostly Christians stop. “We condemn the kidnap of Rev. Father Joseph Shekari, the parish priest of St Monica Catholic Church Ikulu Feri in Kauru Local Government Area and the killing of Steward. We ask for his immediate and unconditional release and we are aware that government officials have ways to get him released. “These continuous attacks on Christians is a confirmation that there is an ongoing genocide in Southern Kaduna and a lot more other places in the northern Nigerian territory including Plateau State whereby Christians dominate numerically. “There is a jihad to depopulate Christians. Government must investigate this and arrest the perpetrators and bring them before a competent court of law. POLL “It is fact that Christians are specifically targeted by armed Islamists masquerading as Fulani herdsmen to attack Christians in the northern states where they (Christians) are the majority in terms of population, such states are Taraba, Plateau, Southern Kaduna, and Benue. “It must be made emphatically clear that HURIWA is in no way accusing President Muhammadu Buhari of direct involvement in the killing of Christians in Northern Nigeria. We recognize that President Muhammadu Buhari is peace-loving. “This is the reason why we have consistently called on President Muhammadu Buhari as the father of the Nation to protect Christians who are in Northern Nigeria and his constituents as adherents of all organized and non-orthodox religions including ATHEISTS. “A lot of those Fulani groups identifying themselves as ‘Miyetti Allah Cattle sellers’ are the people responsible for the attacks on Christians. “In the last year, several priests and seminarians, as well as pastors from other Christian denominations, have been kidnapped in Nigeria, some for ransom, and some by Islamist militant and terrorist groups,’’ the group added.