Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, is National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO) as well as Director General, Global Initiative for Good Governance (GIGG). As the march towards the 2023 general elections gathers momentum, Kalu, a former governorship candidate in Abia State, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, speaks on recent developments in the political arena. Excerpt: How do you see the decision of the National Assembly to legalise Direct, Indirect and Consensus primaries in the just reviewed Electoral Act Amendment Bill? For the sake of clarity, the process of selecting candidates for election through unspecified means is not ideal in any liberal democracy. It amounts to ambiguity to enact a law that is not direct or specific. As the National Assembly retransmits the amended bill to Mr. President for assent and if for any reason it is assented to, it will then create more problems in our electoral system, ranging from crisis-ridden primaries and series of litigations, thereby polluting the political system. Laws are made to be readable and meaningful with a singularity of purpose in action. The level of political maturity here is still low and Nigeria does not operate an advanced state-of-art information technology system to monitor, record and coordinate such pre-election activities. It would have been better off to harmonise such a bill in a way that is free from unclarity and ambiguity. This type of legislation or Act is bound to compound the already disturbing challenges the nation is facing politically. The bill needs to be either Direct or Indirect or by Electoral College (Option A4) as was the case during Prof. Humphery Nwosu’s time in the old National Electoral Commission (NEC). That means, choosing one and dropping others so that Nigeria will begin to have chances for credible polls. 2023: Nnamani, Others Push For Ugwuanyi Presidency COVID-19: FCT Minister Recounts Experience, Takes Booster Dose Would you say the National Assembly members’ decision on the mode of primaries would improve the electoral system? I am sure I have answered your question from my first analysis. It is the same thing I emphasised that it is ambiguous to have an Act that does not specifically clarify a definite action. It will not improve our electoral system. Rather, it would complicate issues due to lack of action clarity. It simply means that the bill is expected to harmonise on one agreed system of primaries and drop others. That is what law is all about. Then, it would become clearer to the blind and audible to the deaf that this is exactly what the law says. How can you make a law that is not straight in action? How could it be interpreted in courts that you adopt three ways of selecting party candidates for election in a country that has about 18 registered political parties? For instance, PDP may choose to select its candidates through indirect ways, while APC adopts direct means; then YPP goes for consensus. Does it make any sense to you? How could it be interpreted and sorted out in courts during litigations? Honestly, it will increase the burdens of proof and interpretations on the already weak laws, trying to survive the backlashes of Executive interference on judicial processes. A cross section of Nigerians feels that the National Assembly should have overridden the president’s veto in the Electoral Act Bill. What is your take on that? Sincerely speaking, it would have been more democratic to override the president’s veto by using the extant provisions of Section 58 (4) & (5) of the Constitution, which allows the legislators to override Mr. President’s refusal to sign a bill. The only thing the lawmakers needed to do was to cooperate and get a two-third majority vote of both chambers and strike a deal. But, most of them lack the political will to do so due to shoulder robbing, horse trading and unnecessary and unjustified party loyalty. The beauty of the whole thing was that if they had succeeded in getting two-third votes of both Houses, the planned legislative override would have stood and the president’s assent would have been unnecessary for it to become a law. 95% of Nigerians prefer the direct primaries to kill godfatherism in party politics. But, due to political cabalism, Mr. President might have been persuaded against endorsing it. How do you see the Federal Government’s decision not to remove fuel subsidy this February as provided by the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA)? POLL (Laughs…) You know, I wonder about the decaying level of respect for the Rules of Law in Nigeria. After signing the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), the same government plans to alter some parts of the legislation to suit whatever interest it tries to protect. What is fuel subsidy in the first place? It was the lack of effective and functional operations of our local refineries that brought about government sourcing and importing refined petroleum products from foreign countries and some cabals in government, for their personal interests, are benefitting from the subsidy syndrome. These are funds paid to major private entities and players in the sector to reduce costs for consumers. But, these funds being paid, if well utilised, would be giving Nigeria three brand new refineries. Even the ones we have had been moribund for decades. I could remember that a huge amount of money had been doled out for Turn Around Maintenance (TAM), but till date, there is nothing to show as to the viability or revitalisation and workability of those machines. The Federal Government should as a matter of urgent concern, fix our local refineries to be operational and stop fuel importation so that the chapter and era of subsidy will be closed. Nigerians will be getting fuel cheaper than the current price per a litre. We are talking about the government setting aside PIA to spend N4.6trillion on fuel subsidy, while this same amount of money can give us two sound refineries that could each be sustaining a daily output of 250, 000 barrels of crude oil. It is the lack of managerial, political and operational capacities that truncates Nigeria’s energy sector. These fundamental issues need to be tackled to relieve Nigeria of the accumulated bottlenecks. Today, January 27, 2022 (date of interview), the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) planned to protest against these anomalies, although the Senate President, Senator Lawan, begged them to cancel the said protest. No one knows if they will actually go ahead with the strike or rescinding their decision. (The strike was actually called off when under pressure, the Federal Government suspended the implementation of the subsidy removal for 18 months). Would you say that by suspending the implementation of the subsidy removal the current APC government is passing the buck on subsidy removal due to lack of political will to implement its policies? Take it or leave it, the APC under this very administration is cunningly and constructively passing the duty of subsidy removal to the desk of the incoming government following due to its fear that it may affect its performance in the coming 2023 elections. On the other hand, the government lacks the political will, which is all about working to achieve excellence in the speedy maintenance of the nation’s dilapidated refineries. Dangote refineries are almost at the completion stage. Once they are set for operation, the government may resort to buying fuel from them based on crude oil swap agreement the entities and Nigeria government will reach, thereby giving room for monopoly in refining and supplies. Private refineries are good to help facilitate speed in balanced production and supplies. But, it must not take the place of government operations to avoid shortages, shortfalls and insufficiencies in production and supplies. You were a supporter and promoter of former Vice President Abubakar Atiku’s presidential ambition in the last election. What is your stand now considering the issue of having a Nigerian president of South East extraction? Yes, we actually did not leave any stone unturned in 2019 to ensure we elected Atiku Abubakar. But prevailing circumstances could not allow us succeed. We thank God. Here today, he is likely to contest in 2023. But, he is yet to make it official. Atiku is one person I know that is capable of transforming Nigeria if enthroned as president. He has the will, experience and determination to develop and reintegrate this country. But, it is not on my desk to decide who gets the party’s nomination. The party has its administrative body duly elected in its convention in October last year. The party also has an operating constitution guiding its activities. She also has a level playing ground through which issues are treated and harmonised. So, I think the party will determine whom its presidential flag will be given. In the case of electing a president of South East extraction, it is also imperative to note that equity and fair play are the bedrock of democracy. The South East has not been given a chance in Aso Rock since the emergence of republicanism in Nigeria. That is the truth and it would be nice if major political parties zone their presidential tickets to the South East to give them a shot in the national government. But, that does not make Atiku a wrong choice. Like I said earlier, the party is in a better position to decide and whosoever is given the nomination, will have my full support. What matters is getting a president that will be able to secure and revitalise the polity. Therefore, the Atikulated Agenda, which I lead, will be relaunched as soon as the party, in its transparency, gives him the ticket. With the same parameter of strength, I will support a South Easterner that secures the PDP presidential nomination. So, the party will decide and then we will take it from there. Gombe 2023: Contest Or Incur Our Wrath, Akko Youths Urge Dattuwa 2023 Benue Guber: I Have Undying Passion To Serve – Waya Are you considering going again for the Abia State governorship ticket or any other position in the coming general elections? Yes, indeed. It is all about interest, capacity and the people’s support. This is not self-praise. But, I am sure that when the people of Abia, in their maximum support, see and confide in me as a purposeful and visionary leader, they will elect me and I will be able to serve and lead them well as their governor, or any other place of representation in the affairs of the government. By the order of mutual zoning and harmony – sugared rotational system we operate in Abia, despite the clandestine and demonised effronteries on the part of some vultures who are working to truncate the system – I can assure them that they will not succeed. It is the turn of Abia North Senatorial District to produce the next governor and anybody trying to destabilise the smooth operations of peace in the state, will surely have himself to blame. So, I am interested in serving my people. But, it is left for my party and the Abia people to decide.