LAGOS – The Socio-Econom­ic Rights and Ac­countability Project, SERAP, has decried the effect of corruption in Water, Health and Education sectors, saying the menace is plunging Nigerians further into poverty as well as im­pacting on People With Dis­abilities, PWDs. Dissatisfied with the sit­uation Nigerians are facing, the organization in a research findings with the support of luminate said citizens are poorer because the level of living in the country is below standard. Daily Independent reports that SERAP on Tuesday also launched a mascot, with the acronym ‘WAHEED’, used in admonishing citizens to reject the corruption person­ified Nigerian that has sus­tained himself at the expense of Nigerians. FCT Council Poll: Abuja Indigenes Commend INEC, Minister For… VSF Launches Food Distribution To Victims Of Terrorism In Yobe The name ‘WAHEED’ was coined from the Water, Health, and Education Sec­tors and it depicts the story of corruption in the sectors at a Town Hall Meeting held in Ikeja, Lagos on “Promoting Citizens’ Participation In The Fight Against Corruption In The Health, Education and Water Sector in Nigeria.” Dr Elijah Okebukola, a Lawyer at the meeting urged President Muham­madu Buhari and State gov­ernments to make access to water, education and health a fundamental right and for their inclusion in the con­stitution. Dr Okebukola, who was a lead researcher, spoke virtu­ally at the public presenta­tion of a publication at the meeting. He also campaigned for a strong justice system for the country. “Where you have a justice system that is weak ìn the fight against corruption, corruption will continue growing. POLL “Until the Judiciary is strengthened, you cannot fight the monster called cor­ruption.” The legal practitioner blamed the Police, Judges, ICPC, EFCC for entrench­ing corruption noting that they have not done enough to rid the country of cor­ruption. Okebukola whose presen­tation was drawn from the report of a survey conduct­ed by SERAP disclosed that the organisation interviewed 2,567 respondents ìn selected town’s across the six geo-polit­ical zones of the country. He said the study showed that corruption was “adding insult to the injury of Nige­rians”.