ABUJA – The Nigerian Police on Monday arraigned Mrs Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, at the Federal High Court Abuja. Precious, an ex-beauty queen was docked before Justice Inyang Ekwo over an allegation of attempting to murder her former husband. Docked alongside Precious are Emmanuel Anakan, Prisca Chikwendu and Osakwe Azubuike. Just In: Assailants Kill Housewife, Pound Her Toddlers In Kano Police Kill 3 Hoodlums Terrorizing Neni, Aguata Divisional… The 13-count criminal charge marked FHC/ABJ/CR/1/2022, was filed by the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory against Precious Chikwendu. Specifically, it was stated in the charge that Precious allegedly attempted to stab Fani-Kayode with a kitchen knife on November 24, 2018, at Asokoro. The charge dated and filed on January 7, 2022, alleged that the defendants committed offences bordering on cybercrime, intimidation to kill Fani-Kayode by use of the Internet, threat to kill one Lauretta in order to cause her to leave her relationship with Fani-Kayode. The embattled Precious was also accused of using her Facebook page of December 7, 2021 to refer Fani-Kayode as “Mr Short Fuse”. The defendants are being alleged to have criminally used internet to send abusive messages with intent to “bully, defame and harass” her ex-husband. POLL In addition, Precious was accused of publishing a false imputation against Fani Kayode “by referring to him as a person who is sexually incapacitated and that he is not the biological father of the four children she had for him as a wife”. Further more, the defendants are being prosecuted for allegedly fabricating false evidence by deposing to series of affidavits that Fani-Kayode physically and sexually assaulted members of his domestic staff in inhuman conduct by causing same to be electronically published in a national daily. Meanwhile, the defendants pleaded not guilty to all the charge which are said to be punishable under Section 392 of the Penal Code among others. The prosecuting counsel, John Ijagbemi, requested for a date to begin trial. Alex Ejesieme, SAN, counsel to the Precious, urged the court to admit the defendants to bail on already existing administrative bail granted them by the police. CSOs Call For Funding Plan For NDLEA To Curb Rising Cases of… Oyo Police Arrest Suspects Involved In PMS, ‘Federal… The court therefore ordered the defendants to continue on the terms of administrative bail earlier granted. Justice Ekwo has fixed April 27, 28 and 29, for commencement of trial.