ENUGU – The Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) says the Commissioner will not deploy the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) in the Feb. 23, 2022 local government election in the state due to logistics issue. Speaking during a Media Roundtable Ahead of the 2022 Enugu State Local Government Elections organised by the European Centre for Electoral Support, Commissioner in ENSIEC, Solomon Udeh said one of the logistics of election was finance and the usage of the device is not captured in the commission’s budget. The training is organised in collaboration with European Union – Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria (EU-SDGN) partners, the Albino Foundation and the Nigerian Women Trust Fund. According to him, the non-deployment of the device was down to the issues of logistics and finance. Sanwo-Olu Congratulates Oluyomi Finnih, GAC Member, At 80 Anyim’s Presidential Bid Boosted As 85 Pressure Groups… He said “One of the logistics of election is finance and it has not been captured in our budget,” He assured the stakeholders that the usage of BVAS would be deployed in subsequent local government elections in the state. On the participation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the election, Udeh said that the electoral umpire was waiting for the resolution of the crisis in the party. According to him ? ENSIEC was reaching out to the three different factions of the party in the state and hoped that they would resolve their crisis within a reasonable time. He said “We are handling their files and if they resolve within themselves, we will know what to do. “We are in constant communication with the national leadership of the APC. If we get their response, we will get the appropriate faction informed,” he said. Udeh said that the electoral umpire had between Feb. 2 and Feb. 10, 2022 to conclude the compilation of names and data of candidates in the election. He stated that ENSIEC would ensure that result sheets were made available in all the polling units across the state during the election.