…Launches S.C.A.L.E 2.0 Strategy With Use of Johnson & Johnson Single Dose Vaccine ABUJA – The Minister of Health , Dr Osagie Ehanire has hinted that although the SCALES strategy has proven to be quite effective in ramping up COVID-19 vaccination coverage, but the proportion of fully vaccinated Nigerians is still very low, partly because we have been using two-dose vaccines. Unfortunately, most people are reluctant to take their second dose for various reasons including fear of a repeat of the mild side effects they may have experienced with the first dose. FG Says COVID-19 Vaccine Is Important Tool To Contain Pandemic WRAHP Leads 20 CSOs To Sensitize Community On Danger Of SGBV The federal government, through NPHCDA, continues to strive to make COVID-19 Vaccination more accessible to the people, saying, “I am glad that every Nigerian can now be guided to the nearest COVID-19 vaccination site, from the comfort of their homes and from their phones”. Ehanire gave this hint on Monday at the launch of S.C.A.L.E 2.0 Strategy with the use of Johnson and Johnson single dose vaccine and vaccination site finder for COVID-19 mass vaccination in Nigeria. According to him, “There is a unique opportunity to leverage the SCALES strategy using COVID-19 vaccination structures and resources to improve Routine Immunization (RI) coverage, with improved efficiency and reduced duplication of efforts by health care workers. This is to ensure that while controlling the transmission of COVID-19, Nigeria does not become a fertile ground for outbreak of childhood vaccine preventable diseases by rapidly increasing RI uptake alongside COVID-19 uptake. “It has become imperative that we launch the SCALES 2.0 Strategy, which entails the integration of COVID-19 vaccination with childhood routine immunization for eligible adults 18 years and above and children zero to two years respectively, leveraging Mass Vaccination Campaigns, Routine Immunization Fixed sessions, Outreach services and Mobile services. We are also formally rolling out the Johnson and Johnson single dose vaccine while introducing the COVID-19 vaccination site finder. “This means that all childhood vaccination, including administration of vitamin A, will now be done alongside COVID-19 vaccination at COVID-19 vaccination sites. Eligible children will now be able to receive their BCG, Penta 3, OPV 3, OPV 1&2, Measles, Yellow Fever vaccines, as well as Vitamin A supplement, at the sites where the adults receive COVID-19 vaccines. This is the good news we are bringing to Nigerians today. POLL “Let me assure Nigerians that we have adequate stock of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, as we have over 30 million doses in stock. I call on all eligible persons that are yet to receive their vaccination to go to the nearest COVID-19 vaccination site and get vaccinated. This single dose offers the same protection you get from two doses of AstraZeneca, Pfizer Bio-N-Tech and Moderna vaccines”. He continued; “Also, I encourage those who have received their first dose of AstraZeneca, Moderna or Pfizer vaccines to ensure they take their second dose when due, to be fully vaccinated and protected. “Your Excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the SCALES 2.0 Strategy, the J&J roll out and the vaccination site finder, are great opportunities for Nigeria to ramp up COVID-19 vaccine coverage and reinvigorate Routine Immunization uptake. The federal government has provided all Nigerians the opportunity to protect themselves and their loved ones against COVID-19, and also enjoy the ease of access to childhood immunization. “Let me commend the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Faisal Shuaib, for his continued innovative and exemplary leadership in vaccination and other primary health care (PHC) service delivery in Nigeria. As of 18th February, Nigeria has administered over 20million doses, representing over 18% of the 111,176,503 eligible population targeted for COVID-19 vaccination. People With COVID In England Won’t Need To Self-Isolate NAFDAC Impounds 120 Tons Of Dangerous Imported ‘Ponmo’ In Lagos “We will continue to strengthen our vaccine security and accountability through the NPHCDA Joint Task Force on Vaccine Monitoring and Accountability. We will continue to engage with all stakeholders, partners, and communities, to ensure inclusiveness and transparency in decision making and other processes involved in COVID-19 vaccination and overall health care delivery in Nigeria”, he said.