ENUGU – A 22-year-old-man identified as Ifeanyi Ugwu has been sentenced to three years imprisonment without the option of a fine by Honourable Justice HA Nganjiwa Federal High Court 1, Awka, Anambra for vandalizing 300KVA. According to a statement made available to journalists by the Head of Corporate Communications of Enugu Electricity Distribution Plc (EEDC), Emeka Ezeh, the 300KVA Transformer located at Eziama Village, Ojoto, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State is a property of EEDC. Ezeh, said that the vandal, a native of Nsukka in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, was arraigned on a two-count charge at the Federal High Court 1, Awka, Anambra State with Charge No.FHC/AWK/C/54/2021, and was subsequently remanded at the Federal Correctional Center, Awka, after case was adjourned to the 3rd of February, 2022 for review of his plea for leniency. After passing the judgement, the presiding judge cautioned the convict to desist from committing such offence after serving his term.   Ezeh commended the Judge for the speedy trial and hoped that this will serve as a deterrent to other elements engaging in such acts of sabotage. According to him, the activities of vandals has been a very big challenge to the company as it continues to commit scarce resources to the replacement of vandalized equipment. He further stated that this equally has an impact on its customers who are inconvenienced as they will be out of supply till the vandalized transformer is repaired and supply restored. Ezeh recounted that last week, at Methodist Theological Institute (MTI), Umuahia, Abia State, a suspected vandal identified as Chinedu Ogbonna was arrested by the security men attached to the Institute while vandalizing Tower channels and aluminium cables belonging to EEDC noting that 3 of his accomplices escaped but was later handed over to Central Police Station, Umuahia, for further investigation and arrest of the other fleeing suspects.   “Customers should be more vigilant and ensure that the electricity installations within their vicinity are not attacked by vandals,” Ezeh appealed. He further commended the efforts of the various vigilante groups, Nigerian Police, Civil Defense Corps, who have been quite supportive in apprehending and prosecuting these vandals.