Financial institutions in the country have been challenged to support the growth of the automobile industry. This is as the Lagos State Government reiterated that it would continue to create the enabling environment for the expansion of the private sector in the state. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu stated this on Thursday at the commissioning of the GAC Motor Showroom, Workshop and the GS 4 Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) in Lagos. According to him, the automobile industry required the support of financial institutions to continue to expand their operations and create jobs for the public, adding that without such support, growth in the sector would be limited, while the unemployment rate would continue to climb. Besides, he promised that the state government would continue to create a convenient environment for private investors through its programmes and policies. Also, the governor informed that the State Government was partnering with GAC Motor for the establishment of an assembly plant in Ikeja and expressed optimism that it would be commissioned before the end of the year. He said: ”We are also partnering with GAC Motor on an assembly plant in the state. This is a partnership between the Lagos State Government and the company. ”This shows we are not just buying finished products, but we are also partnering with the company to boost employment opportunities. The brands of GAC are actually around the employment generation. And for us, this is another very first.” -Advertisement- POLL In her remarks, Chief Diana Chen, the Chairman, of GAC Motor, Nigeria, commended Sanwo-Olu for encouraging private investors to thrive in the state through its policies and programmes.She explained that the GS4 SUV would create a difference in the SUV segment with fuel efficiency, state-of-the-art equipment and artistic simplicity. Others at the venue were the Managing Directors of Polaris Bank and Wema Bank, Mr Innocent Ike and Mr Ademola Adebise, respectively. A representative of the Bank of Industry (BoI) and Alhaji Aliko Dangote among other dignitaries were in attendance.