***As Police Operatives Recover Three Locally Made Guns, One Pump Action, Cartridges,  Stolen Vehicle In Delta ASABA – Delta State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of three suspects; two armed robbers at Sapele-Warri Expressway in Obiaruku, Ukwani Local Government Area, and a kidnapper after a foiled kidnapping attempt at Otu-Jeremi by Owawha/Okwagbe Road and Oghior/Imode Road in Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State as suspect flee into the bush, abandoned stolen vehicle, Police recover weapons. Delta State Police Command made this remark in a press statement made available to some group of Journalists in Asaba Delta State capital by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe today being on Saturday, 9th day of July, 2022 as the State Police Command stated that manhunt for fleeing suspect is ongoing. Delta State Police Command stated further that, yesterday being on Friday, 8th July, 2022, that its operatives recovered one locally made guns from two suspected Armed Robbers namely: Joshua Stephen (male), 20 years old and Wisdom Obanor (male), 21 years old. Consequently, according to the Command, that on 5th July, 2022, that its operatives also foiled kidnapping attempt by a kidnapper in Ndokwa East Local Government Area of Delta State as operatives successfully arrested a 27 years old Kidnapper, who is the leader of the gang at Obiaruku, Ukwani Local Government Area, one Chukwuemeka Ochu. POLL The press statement by Delta State Command reads in parts: “On 8/7/2022, Eagle-Net Patrol team while on stop and search duty along Sapele-Warri Expressway, intercepted an Audi Saloon car with Reg. no. QA 480 UGH, carrying two suspicious looking occupants. The team subjected them to a search during which one locally made pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from them”. “The two suspects, Joshua Stephen ‘m’ age 20yrs and Wisdom Obanor ‘m’ age 21yrs were arrested and investigation is ongoing. In another development, on 5/7/2022 at about 1430 hrs, acting on intelligence gathered that a kidnapping syndicate has perfected plans to kidnap one prominent chief (Name withheld) of Ogume community in Ndokwa East LGA, the Commander Eagle-Net Special Squad, SP Usman Dimka, detailed operatives of Eagle-Net to ensure that their plan is foiled and the gang arrested. “The resilience and unrelenting efforts put in placed by the operatives aborted the purported kidnapping plan and led to the arrest of a suspect and leader of the gang, one Chukwuemeka Ochu ‘m’ age 27yrs of Nuke Mba Street, Obiaruko in Nkwani LGA. Investigation is ongoing while efforts are on to arrest the other fleeing members of the gang”. “On 06/07/2022 at about 1347hrs, operatives attached to Otu-Jeremi Police Station while on stop and search duty, along Owawha/Okwagbe road, sighted a Lexus 350 SUV with reg. no. LG 31 GRA. On noticing the Police, the driver made a U-turn and sped off. This aroused the suspicion of the Policemen who gave them a hot chase”. “At Oghior/ Imode road, in Ughelli South LGA, the hoodlums abandoned the vehicle and escaped into the bush. When the vehicle was searched, one pump action gun, two locally made guns and six rounds of live cartridges were recovered. Investigation later revealed that the SUV was earlier snatched from the owner along Ughelli-Warri Road. Manhunt for the fleeing suspect is ongoing.”