Enugu – Abubakar Lawa, the Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, has ordered the State CID to conduct thorough investigation to establish the cause of attack at Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) office in Ogrute, Igboeze LGA of Enugu State. Daily Independent reports that hoodlums set ablaze the INEC office on Sunday night, destroying part of the building and other sensitive materials. The area has come under gunmen attack in recent time, thereby resulting in a dusk to dawn curfew placed on Igboeze North and Igboeze South local government areas by the state government while heavy security personnel have been deployed to check the activities of hoodlums terrorising the area. Reacting to the incident, the state police commissioner through his spokesperson, DSP Daniel Ndukwe, said the fire outbreak was observed to have started from the back of the building and was put out by police operatives that swiftly mobilised to the scene on receipt of the information, with assistance from personnel of Nsukka Office of Enugu State Fire Service, thereby averting further damages within the vicinity. He said, “Consequently, the CP, while assuring that the command will do all it can to unravel the cause of the incident and take necessary action, has enjoined residents of the area to support the police with credible information and/ or intelligence in the ongoing investigation.” Meanwhile, INEC’s National Commissioner, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in a statement made available to journalists on Monday expressed worry over the attack, saying, “The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Enugu State, Mr. Emeka Ononamadu, reported that INEC’s Igboeze North Local Government Area office had been burnt. “Although no casualties were reported, 748 ballot boxes, 240 voting cubicles, office furniture and equipment were destroyed in spite of the best effort of the Enugu State Fire Service deployed from Nsukka. -Advertisement- POLL “We are working to ascertain the status of voter registration machines for the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise as well as uncollected Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) locked up in the fireproof cabinet.” Okoye expressed worry that the attack is coming in the middle of the voter registration exercise and other preparations for 2023 general election and assured that the commission will continue to work with security agents to protect INEC facilities.