LAGOS – Honourable Ganiyu Johnson, the lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo constituency 2 at the green chamber of the National Assembly has felicitated with Muslims at the constituency, Lagos State and across the country as they celebrate this year’s Eid-El-Kabir. The lawmaker in a Sallah message made available to journalists by his media aide Dotun Oladapo on Friday, urged Muslims to embrace peace, unity and tolerance in tandem with the spirit of Eid-El-Kabir which he noted teaches love, peace, unity, tolerance and sacrifice. According to Johnson, the season has given faithful the opportunity to reflect on the teachings of Islam, why people should live in harmony with one another for the common good of all, stressing that the state of the nation today demands that every citizen should live in peace so that the Almighty Allah will answer the prayers of the people for a greater and prosperous nation. “What Eid-el-Kabir teaches us is love, and forbearance with God , and it elaborates on sacrifice, and as Muslins we are expected to live  peacefully with one another, which is why this celebration is very apt in this period when insecurity has become a menace and so I want to urge all Nigerians irrespective of tribal and religious affiliations to use this opportunity to pray for Nigeria. “We must all be committed to building a great nation and we cannot achieve that if we are not united,. We must pray for our nation, call on the Almighty Allah to give us the spirit of tolerance, so that we can see ourselves as brothers that are determined to bring the positive change that all of us hope for in this country,” he said. The former Lagos State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure maintained that the various challenges  bedeviling the country can be surmounted with commitment and determination from Nigerians, even as he prayed for peaceful celebration of the Eid-el-Kabir. “I wish Oshodi/Isolo federal constituency 2 a happy Eid-el-Kabir. I wish Lagosians and all Nigerians a happy Eid-el-Kabir, and I pray that the Almighty Allah will give us the spirit of tolerance so that we can see ourselves as brothers, live in harmony and be determined to bring positive change to the country.” “The various challenges  bedeviling the country can be surmounted with commitment and determination from all of us. Nigeria is a great country and we must be determined to contribute to the progress of this nation. -Advertisement- POLL “Eid-el-Kabir teaches love, peace, unity, tolerance and sacrifice and we are all enjoined to practice the teachings,” he said.