BOLU OLU-ESHO The recent cabinet reshuffle and appointment of new ministers into the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government may present another opportunity for the All Progressives Congress(APC) to rebuild its image before the citizenry. A number of ministers in the cabinet had turned in their resignation papers in pursuit of their political ambitions, mostly succeeding the president in 2023. Although they didn’t do this until the president, through a circular by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation(SGF), Boss Mustapha, asked them to resign from their various offices in May. Many political observers expressed concern on the flagrant disobedience of the cabinet members to the provisions of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act. The Electoral Act states that “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” But President Buhari submitted list of some nominees to replace those who eventually resigned from the cabinet. On the list, Umana Okon-Umana, from Akwa-Ibom, to replace Godswill Akpabio, Niger Delta Affairs minister, Goodluck Obia from Imo State, to replace Science, Technology and Innovation minister, Ogbonnaya Onu, Ademola Adewole, from Ondo, to replace Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Tayo Alasoadura, who resigned to contest for Ondo Central senatorial ticket, Udum Odi, who is from Rivers State to replace Rotimi Amaechi who resigned from Transportation. Ekuma Joseph (Ebonyi), Umar Ibrahim(Kano) and Henry Ikechukwu (Abia) are among the new appointed ministers. POLL They obtained the N100million nomination and interest forms for presidential ticket being the price tag of APC. With the caliber of personalities injected into the cabinet, the APC may seize the opportunity to worm itself to the minds of the citizenry, particularly the electorate ahead of the 2023 general elections. Ikechukwu, the new Minister of state, Science and Technology, was a former commissioner for Industry, Science and Technology in Abia State and a strong politician who defected from PDP to APC in 2020 on grounds of marginalization. Likewise Umana, a renowned was the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA) before his recent appointment. Speaking on the chances of the ministers to help President Buhari implement some of his programmes to the benefit of the downtrodden in the country, pundits noted that the crop of personalities appointed could reshape the central government. Umana was described as a renowned economist and with his wealth of experience, he’s expected to handle the Niger Delta project differently from the way his predecessors had done. A number of them were described as competent hands and their performance may influence the decision of the electorate in the forthcoming general elections, particularly the presidential election. Ademola Adegoroye, who is an Akure-born prince, has cut his teeth in politics of the progressives in Ondo State. Many see his appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as a laurel for his service to humanity and desire to serve them more through political office. His name is known in every household in Ondo State when talking about politics devoid of violence and desperation. He was the standard bearer of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria(ACN) in 2007 governorship election in Ondo State. His political campaign has severally been described as peaceful and issue-based even among his political rivals. The state capital was agog when the news of his nomination filtered in as many indigenes of the state see him as the rightful personality to replace the immediate past Minister of State(Niger Delta), Senator Tayo Alasoadura. Alasoadura had resigned his portfolio in pursuit of his political ambition to return to the Senate. Adegoroye’s appointment was seen by the people of Akure kingdom as a consolation for the loss of Hon. Omolafe Adedayo, a member of the House of Representatives, who died on August 16, 2021. The late Omolafe was a grassroots politician who related well with the downtrodden before his demise. His desire and readiness to solve the people’s domestic problems ranging from payment of school fee to hospital bills endeared him to the people. It is boldly written in the faces of the people of Akure that they are yet to come to reality that Expensive, as Omolafe was fondly called, had gone to the world beyond.. Adegoroye possesses the rare qualities exuded by Omolafe as he’s also known to be living among his people. Even as a prince and lawyer, he was said to have surrounded himself with people from all social strata. Political analysts in the state described his appointment as a round peg in a round hole. They submitted that he would make a good minister due to his grassroots orientation. According to one of the pundits, his performance would be good enough for the downtrodden Nigerians as he’s familiar with their feelings and knows how to relate with them. It is believed that he would bring the federal government closer to the people through the Ministry of Transportation. Most of the complaints lodged by the people bother around the fact that the impact of the Federal Government is not felt in most communities, particularly those that are far from the state capital cities. With Adegoroye’s experience in relating with the grassroots people, the dividends of democracy provided by his ministry would go a long way in making a difference in the life of the lowly citizenry. Pundits noted that the APC candidates for the 2023 general elections, particularly the presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would benefit immensely from the wealth of experience of the minister in winning massively in Ondo State. He’s familiar with the terrain and knows political gladiators who are expert in convincing the electorate to follow a particular voting pattern during the election. According to political observers, as a politician known for loyalty, Adegoroye would assemble politicians of like-minds in the state who could be trusted to midwife the execution of the 2023 general elections in the state to checkmate fifth columnists within the party. His nomination, according to political pundits, couldn’t have been for political reasons alone, but would not be unconnected with the 2023 general elections. They noted that he’s still one of the young politicians with traits of politicians of the old who indeed read the minds of the people accurately. It won’t be a surprise if the new minister begins to nocturnal meetings with politicians across all political parties in the state to see to how the state is delivered to President Buhari. Pundit, however, noted that having served as a Director in Odua Investment Holdings and currently a member and acting Chairman of the Governing Board of the Federal Medical Centre, Gusau, Zamfara State, to discharge his duties in his new office would not pose any difficulty for him.