LAGOS  – The Federal and the State Governments have been called to give a kind of subsidy or rebate for companies producing life changing and Agric value chain products. Adeola Balogun, Co- Founder of LimLim Foods, processor of fruits and vegetables as well as egg powder made the call while speaking in an interview with Daily Independent, stating that power has been one of the major challenges facing agro food processors in the country. “Power has been one of the major challenges; power has been expensive. If government can give subsidy to companies producing such life changing and Agric value adding products, it will be great for us to have rebate on power because the machine runs on 24 hours power. Balogun said that the market for egg powder in Nigeria has been interesting. “Apparently we can’t even meet the demands, a lot of industries are asking for it , and we are talking with them but the quantity they are asking for is quite mind-blowing, imagine the poultry value chain has so much to offer. She said big biscuits manufacturing companies uses egg powder for their production, those producing noodles, chin chin and the baker’s also use egg powder for their various productions. “There is no reason why the baker’s are using raw eggs, when we have egg powder, it can last longer and they are able to manage their cost longer because it can last for more than 10 years. “I will advise the baker’s that now that the prices of eggs are increasing every day, they can switch to egg powder and buy it in bulk. POLL “This way they are able to manage their finances and bottomline and also manage their production because there are standards measurements now” she said. Speaking further she said there is no reason why the Lagos state government is not producing egg powder on a large scale. “As Private sector we are doing it on our own and using private resources. We are challenging the Lagos state government to invest in egg powder production to feed the nation. It is possible; if we can do it the government can do it. “We are calling on the Lagos state government to establish big egg powder processing. we believe we have a lot to offer the industry,” she added.