LAGOS  – The 7th Annual Edition of the Zenith Bank Interna­tional Trade Seminar will be held on Wednes­day, July 20, 2022. Venue for the Zenith Bank InternationalTrade Summit is the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, and virtually by 9.00 am. The seminar, themed: “Un­locking Opportunities in Nige­ria’s Non-Oil Export Business”, is part of Zenith Bank’s efforts to support the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) initiatives to grow the country’s non-oil export sec­tor. The seminar will draw partic­ipation from trade practitioners, local and foreign exporters, man­ufacturers, financial institutions, and government agencies. This forum would provide an opportunity for all participants, including relevant government agencies, to explore ways to un­lock the immense opportunities in Nigeria’s Non-Oil Export Sector. The Export Seminar will feature a welcome address by the Group Managing Director of Zenith Bank Plc, Ebenezer Onyeagwu, while the Keynote Speaker is Aliko Dangote, Pres­ident & Chief Executive of Dan­gote Group. Goodwill messages will be delivered by very eminent indi­viduals, including the Founder and Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc, Jim Ovia; Governor, Cen­tral Bank of Nigeria, Mr. God­win Emefiele; Secretary General, African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), His Excellency, Wamkele Mene; and President/ Chairman, African Export-Im­port Bank, Prof. Benedict Okey Oramah. There will be three-panel discussions during the seminar. The first panel, titled “Unlocking Opportunities in Nigeria’s Non- Oil Export Business: Operators/ Practitioners’ Perspectives”, will focus on the value chain and prospects of the non-oil export sector. POLL The session will feature and has five discussants, including the Managing Director, GACON Ltd, HRM Adaku Chidume Okoro; Managing Director, WA­COT, Bibhu Nanda; Group Man­aging Director, Tulip Cocoa, Jo­han Van Der Merwe; Managing Director, First Patriot, Santosh Phenany; and Managing Direc­tor, Starlink Global & Ideal Ltd, Alhaji Adeyemi M. Adeniji. The second panel, titled “Funding/Logistics/Govern­ment Support for the Non-Oil Export Sector”, will explore the availability of long-term funds, insurance & reinsurance, and risk-sharing mechanisms for the non-oil export sector. The panel has five discus­sants, including the Managing Director/CEO, Bank of Indus­try, Mr. Olukayode Pitan; Direc­tor, Development Finance of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Yusuf Philip Yila; Managing Director, West Africa Container Terminal, Naved Zafar; Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Mr. Mohammed Bello-Koko; and the Comptroller-General, Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Ibrahim Hameed Ali (Rtd).