Following the Muslim-Muslim ticket saga, the former Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Solomon Dalung has berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, declaring that the ruling party has a hidden agenda for the country in the 2023 general elections. Daily Independent had on Wednesday reported that Tinubu officially unveiled a fellow Muslim, Senator Kashim Shettima as his Vice Presidential candidate amid controversy surrounding the same fate ticket. Speaking on the development, Dalung who recently emerged as the Plateau State Social Democratic Party (SDP’s) candidate for the House of Representatives, Langtang North/Langtang South federal constituency said that the former Governor of Lagos State may be using the Muslim-Muslim ticket to ‘manipulate people to access power’ cum 2023. The former Minister who spoke in an interview with the Punch disclosed that the APC’s hidden agenda is to play the religious card to get power just for the sake of getting power. Speaking further, he asserted that he does not think the APC will win the 2023 presidential election. According to him, the forthcoming election is going to be a herculean task for APC to win the 2023 election, adding that if the ruling party had performed, Nigerians would have overlooked the issue of the same religious ticket. He said, “It is going to be a serious and herculean task for the party to win because, apart from squandering the goodwill of managing the country in the past seven years, the APC has also introduced a dimension that is going to make it impossible for it to be an option for Nigerians to consider’ he pointed out. ‘If it had performed, Nigerians would have overlooked the issue of the same religious ticket it introduced.’ POLL When asked for his position on the Muslim-Muslim ticket, Dalung said: ‘It’s the highest manifestation of religious intolerance and insensitivity to the sentiments of Nigerians and an attack on our diversity that has squandered the goodwill of Nigeria. ‘For me, the worst thing the APC has done is to bring in a joint religious ticket from the same faith. The Muslims in this country have twice elected southern Christians as northern deputies.