LAGOS  – -The African Development Bank (AfDB), is set to boost agro-cargo export in Nigeria with the establishment of state-of-the-art testing centre in Sagamu, Ogun State. Ade Akinsanya, the Ogun State Commissioner for Works & Infrastructure in an interview with journalists over the weekend said that the centre when completed would be the only testing centre built by the bank in Africa. According to Akinsanya, the centre on completion would further encourage the standardisation of farm produce export from the African continent, while the usual rejection of Nigerian arm produce would be eliminated. He explained that the Sagamu site is the only facility approved for the project in Africa by the AfDB, adding that the site was conceived as part of ancillary infrastructure to drive viability for the about-to-be-completed Ogun International Agro Cargo Airport in Ilisan Remo, Ogun State. Akinsanya emphasised that the project is put together as part of international collaboration for driving air transport infrastructure in Africa and assured that the facility would address challenges associated with processing agro-allied produce for export. Akinsanya added that the ongoing construction of the agro-cargo airport by the Ogun State Government would also assist in enhancing the performance of the testing centtre and maintained that the State Government would ensure the delivery of the project before the end of the year. He said: “The only testing site approved in Africa by the AfDB will be located at a site not too far from here – Sagamu. That is one of the challenges people exporting goods out of Nigeria face because most of those goods don’t meet the international standard. So, before anything goes out, it will be tested before you can export it and it is just nearby. “Whatever they grow in Nigeria can be exported from this place and whatever they produce in any part of the world can also land here. There are lots of opportunities for the exportation of foodstuffs. One good thing is Ogun State is very vital and this will also boost the agro processing and agro products in the state.” POLL Akinsanya insisted that the location of the airport and its accessibility to the public would make it viable, stressing that the airport could be accessed through six locations.