 In 2019 at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Lobi Stars visited the ancient city for one of their top flight games against Kano Pillars. Despite spirited efforts by the home side, the visitors, through a Douglas Achiv’s goal, piped them 1-0 in that season’s opener for both teams and returned to Makurdi safe because there were no fans at the stadium. The team management blamed the defeat on the unavailability of the fans who are considered the twelfth player for any home side. The non-availability of fans was as a result of what Pillars did in Lagos during previous season’s Super Six at Agege Stadium in Lagos in their match against Rangers International. Despite that Lagos was far from being their home, fans of Kano Pillars threw caution to the wind. Apart from invading the pitch, supporters and fans of Pillars damaged perimetre fences and advertising panels, attacked match officials with weapons and hauled objects at the VIP stands during the match which ended 1-1. After the violence, the LMC fined Pillars N8 million, while their captain, Rabiu Ali, was banned from all NPFL activities and matches for a period of 12 games. Pillars were also ordered to play their first three home matches behind closed doors, and be ready to forfeit three points in the 2019/20 season, should they be found in further breach of the charges. That was why they played the previous season’s opener against Lobi Stars with fans absent at the Sani Abacha Stadium. -Advertisement- POLL A couple of years back, precisely 2017, fans of Kano Pillars descended heavily on the players of Akwa United in a match the Promise Keepers defeated the Sai Masu Gida 1-0 at the Sani Abacha Stadium in Kano. During the game, Christian Pyagbara netted in the 19th minute slotting past Yusuf Mohammed to silence the crowd inside the Sani Abacha Stadium. Midway through the second half, missiles were thrown into the pitch which hit and injured the referee. After the game, the then Akwa United defenders Ofem Inah and Kodjo Dadzie were beaten up by Pillars fans while the then assistant coach Effiong Moses was also attacked. The same Akwa United were also at the receiving end last year against the same Kano Pillars when the Sai Masu Gida hosted them at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium, as angry fans of the home side encroached the stadium to attack and disrupt the game. Pandemonium started in the 87th minute when Pillars’ Nyima Nwagua’s effort was flagged off for offside by assistant referee Abdul Rasheed from Kwara, and upheld by centre referee from Lagos, Adebimpe Quadri. Fans, who also defied COVID-19 protocols, immediately encroached the pitch, attacked and disrupted the match and chased the assistant referee around the pitch, while an Akwa United player was slapped by a fan. The then coach of Akwa United, Kennedy Boboye, said of the incident: “Around the 87th minute, their player was offside and they scored an offside goal. “The assistant referee flagged it and the referee blew his whistle. Before we know, the crowd invaded the pitch and started chasing the referee and his assistant to beat them up so that was why we stopped the game and walked off.” In 2016, Enyimba players were at the receiving end of fury from the fans and officials of Kano Pillars. Trouble started after a 2-1 home defeat to Enyimba. They threw objects onto the pitch, immediately after Nzube Anaezemba equalized following Rabiu Ali’s opener. Police tried to contain the mayhem by firing teargas to disperse the crowd. However, things got out of hand after the game, with the Pillars fans attacking Enyimba’s team bus. The driver sustained injuries, after he was hit with an object. Enyimba players and officials were seen bleeding profusely after the attack. Meanwhile, while it could be admitted that violence at match venues has become commonplace among the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) teams, suffice to say that the Sani Abacha Stadium and its landlord, Kano Pillars, have become so notorious in disrupting the league in recent time. Only the ongoing season, four incidents of attacks on visiting teams have rocked the club with various punitive, albeit not enough, measures always being meted out to them. For instance, the Sai Masu Gida in April was recently banished to the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja after the club and their fans attacked the players and of ficials of Katisna United. With the match goalless after 82 minutes, irate fans invaded the stadium, attacking everyone in sight as players and match officials scampered for safety with the game ending abruptly. The violent fans appeared to target anything in their sight, with facilities in the stadium and the Katsina United team bus, whose windows were smashed. The incident took place on a day when Kano Pillars were returning to their home ground for the first time in two years due to a ban occasioned by fan violence. Just last week, Kano Pillars were in the news for the wrong reasons once again after match officials were directly targeted in their game against Dakkada FC of Uyo. This attack has been described by stakeholders as very scary and unfortunate as it is a deviation from their usual norms, solely targeted at match officials and carried out by the chairman of the club. The ugly scene started after a 92nd minute goal by Edidiong Ezekiel of Dakkada Fc to level scores at 1-1 in the rescheduled NPFL match involving the two relegation battlers. Immediately after the goal was scored via Edidiong Ezekiel’s diving header from a free kick, Kano Pillars Fc chairman ran towards the Assistant Referee one and punched Mr Daramola from Ekiti State. The action of the Kano Pillars chairman instigated violent disruptions from Pillars club officials and few fans who illegally gained entry into the stadium for the game at the Sani Abacha stadium Kano. In the face of growing tension and threats, the assistant referee who had earlier confirmed the goal made a U-turn after over 23minutes. The league management company official at the venue wasn’t spared with his iPad broken. Apart from that, Kano Pillars had been caught napping this season in other times during their home games and in each of the occasions, no serous measures had been taking by the LMC to ensure that commensurate punitive measures were meted out to the team. In May and following a league meeting with the then table-toppers Rivers United in their adopted Kaduna home, Kano Pillars were fined N2.5 million for encroachment and failing to provide adequate security for match officials, who consequently suffered harassment. Ironically, in the wake of that incident, they were sent away from Kaduna and directed to host home matches in Katsina of all places. When Pillars were banished to Abuja, precisely the MKO Abiola Stadium, following attack on Katsina United, which also saw colossal damage to their team bus, there was a suspended three points deduction hanging on the team should any of such happened again. But since this latest incident, the Sai Masu Gida had remained with their full points, even still being counted the points in the very game that led to the latest incident, warranting a question on whether the former Nigerian champions have become the proverbial sacred cow. SUNDAY INDEPENDENT findings have it that there is virtually no club in the Nigerian topflight that has not tested the unfounded fury of either the fans of Kano Pillars or their management; at a time, Sani Abacha Stadium was classified as a dangerous ground for away teams to even aim to get a draw and this was not unconnected to the high intolerant nature of the fans of the home team. Long-term league followers will remember the club’s monstrous unbeaten home record, which stood for an eye-watering 202 matches and 12 years starting from 2003. A proud achievement, no doubt, but there is no denying the fact that such feat was possible because of intimidation of match officials, threats (and actual use) of violence, coercion, the works. In his memoir ‘A Thousand Times on the Same Road’, veteran journalist China Acheru recounted an experience in 2010 when visiting Dolphins FC were set upon by irate fans in Kano for having the temerity to come away with a 2-2 draw. The episode, complete with a club official refusing to allow the fourth official put the board up for added time, was representative of the reign of terror that was Kano. In that match, the fans of the home team smashed the cameras of television crew covering the game. Some stakeholders have urged that more drastic action should be taking against Pillars and any such club in order to serve as deterrent to others. Speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, pioneer coach of Pillars when Nigerian League was rechristened Professional League, Kadiri Ikhana, said it has become obvious that Pillars are getting it wrong in terms of who manages the team, saying all these were because round pegs are in square holes in Pillars. “When you have none professionals managing a team, you get the kind of behaviours you see in Pillars. “Wrong and unprofessional hands are allowed to manage the team and that is why a chairman can go that far and slap a referee. “He went too far and it is just because he does not have the passion for the growth of the game in his heart. “I coached Pillars in 1991 and guided them to win the first FA Cup and so you know what I am saying,” he said. On the way forward, the experienced manager said removing the team from the League is not the answer, rather he challenged the owners to make sure the right hands are allowed to manage the team. “There is no way you completely make a team extinct in football because of whatever reason. “I think they should make sure right and competent people manage the team; people who can direct the fans aright and make them see that winning is not a must for any team,” the former Super Falcons manager said. Also speaking to SUNDAY INDEPENDENT, Friday Ekpo said the management and fans should be educated, while charging the LMC to come up with stricter measures to halt the trend not only in Pillars but other teams. “The management of Pillars need reorientation and their fans too because it is becoming a tradition. “How can a club chairman go that low in slapping a referee? This is unheard of anywhere. “It is time that LMC do something about this, possibly come up with better measures to make sure such is not heard again.” Asked what measure he thinks could be better, the former Super Eagles midfielder said it is left for the LMC to come up with that. A member of the Pillars board who spoke on condition anonymity said scrapping the team would not be the solution; he rather urged the state government to pay adequate attention to the activities of the team in order to curtail what he called some excesses of those at the top echelon of the team. “Scrapping the team won’t solve any problem but I think it has a lot to do with those at the top of the team. “We seem to have been abandoned by the Kano State Government and this is the time for them to refocus their attention on this team. “We have brought honours to this state before and I think they should give us more chance and make sure that some of the officials are checked because they carry themselves to highly,” he said.