On the heels of the politicking towards the 2023 general elections, the Defense Headquarters in Abuja has warned Nigerian politicians and their supporters not to set Nigeria on fire. The Defense Headquarters has warned politicians, especially those seeking political offices and their supporters not to set the country on fire with their utterances and actions. The warning is timely and in order, especially against the backdrop of some people and their tribes claiming parentage to the country, boasting that they can do whatever they will and still go scot-free as though the country is their private estate. The military, by their training, are supposed to be praetorian guards who must protect the nation’s sovereignty and maintain its inviolability. The Nigerian military formation is one of the the best in the world. But investigations reveal that over time, the military in Nigeria has allowed itself to be misled into partisan consideration. This must not be allowed to continue. There will be no war in Nigeria. Those politicians who would send their wives and children abroad and push children of the poor to kill themselves are not true Nigerians. Our gallant soldiers were mobilized to fight on the side of the allied forces during the Second World War. After the Word War 2, the Nigerian military fought relentlessly for the liberalization of the country from the stranglehold of colonial domination. The military also gave good account itself in peacekeeping operations across the world like in Congo, etcetera. Recently, the Nigerian military helped in bringing to an end the civil in Liberia and install democracy in that country after about 14 years of civil war. Our military did the same in Sierra Leone and other African countries. There are some countries in Asia and Africa where the military have folded their alms leading to serious crisis in their respective countries. Examples of such countries include Luanda, Afghanistan, Pakistan, etcetera. There are also countries where the military have allowed politicians to make mistakes until they are able to hone their politics to a considerable art. For instance, the intra-party crisis that led to the assassination of Indira Ghandi, the erstwhile Prime Minister of India and the assassination of Rajiv, her son and successor, did not make the military to come to the centre- stage of that country’s political leadership. This has brought about tremendously political stability to that country. Today, India and China send about 800 scientists to the Silicon Valley of the United States of America who manufacture “made in United States” goods. In the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, the military should therefore not take sides. They must endeavour to be neutral. The military must not only be neutral; they must be seen to be neutral in order for our country to develop. He have a national military, not a tribal one. Our politicians must be allowed to make their mistakes and correct themselves. The military must support and fight for democratic causes and not prebendal manipulations. The slogan, “one Nigeria” must be one Nigeria in all things. The Peace Committee which was initially headed by Sen. Ben Obi with Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, Arc-bishop John Onaekan, the Sultan of Sokoto, Bishop Matthew Hasan Kuka, must be revived. Nigerian politicians must see politics as a game and exhibit the equanimity to accept defeat and the magnanimity to share their victory at the polls. The archaic and antiquated habit of the winner takes all, must be dropped. Nigeria does not belong to one tribe. It is a nation of 250 ethnic groups, more than 400 languages and many religions. There must be justice and equity so that there will be peace and development. In the absence of peace, development is often seen in the dividing line between savagery and barbarism. 2023 must be a year of peace in our country. The military must not support any politician or group of politicians despite their ethnic or religious inclination. The military must be neutral in 2023.