AWKA – A former president general of Isuaniocha community in Awka North local government area of Anambera state, comrade Tony Onyeagolu has explained that the major reason why he was removed from office abruptly was because he was not in support and did not agree to the selling of portions of land belonging to Community Secondary School Isuaniocha. Reacting to a release by the Commissioner for Homeland affairs Mr Chikodi Anara, the former PG described as false all the allegations leveled against him by the Commissioner while challenging him to come out with facts to the claims made by the commissioner. Comrade Onyeagolu who recalled how closely he was with the commissioner to the point that members of the Anara family once visited his Ghana residence, wondered why such a person would turn back to call him a drug addict. According to comrade Onyeagolu, Mr Anara called him and told him to allow one Mr Cosmos Okonkwo who is now a security adviser to governor Soludo to enter and sell the portions of land as he, Mr Okonkwo assisted him to install a traditional ruler in Amanuke when he was the local government chairman of Awka North local government area. “I said no to the directive and said to him, you are the security adviser to governor Willie Obiano and the government told us that we are to protect government facilities in our various towns, how will I join you to sell my communal land already donated to our secondary school. People should ask Mr Chikodi Anara why he is always supporting hoodlums in isuaniocha against the general wish of the town, let him explain why the Hilux security vehicle donated to vigilante group in my town is still parked at police custody’. He wondered why the former security adviser to Willie Obiano, would be accusing him over the death of one Mr Angos while there are up to six persons killed in the town which is why the security vehicle of the community is still parked at the police including one Toyota Camry car belonging to one of the two victims his boys killed at Umuzocha and used the vehicle to convey their corpses. ” His so called boys used the vehicle when they murdered Ifeanyi and Chukwuebuka at Umuzocha and the investigation is going on since January 19th 2019, Mr Anara knows about this and he has not asked about the Hilux and the deceased car which is still parked at CPS”. According to the former PG, Nigerian police invited Mr Anara , now commissioner for homeland affairs to force headquarters Abuja, but he declined and instead sent a senior advocate to go and stand in for him. -Advertisement- POLL “The administration of Willie Obiano set up a panel over the secondary school land headed by late traditional ruler of Nteje, Igwe Rowland Odegbo of blessed memory, the panel found out that my hands were clean, but Mr Anara who was the then security adviser to the governor never allowed that report to see the light of the day. Even all the petitions I wrote to the governor, he frustrated it and never allowed any to get to the executive governor’ The former President General therefore challenged the commissioner to allow the present administration to set up a panel and invite them both to appear and explain their various roles in the crisis rocking Isuaniocha community as he had evidences to prove that he, the homeland commissioner was responsible for the issues in the area. Comrade Onyeagolu said following a petition he wrote to the National Assembly, the Senate committee on ethics invited Mr Anara to appear before it to explain his role in the Isuaniocha issues but he declined and later sent letter of allegations which led to the committee calling the SSG, professor Solo Chukwulobelu to confirm the state government stand on the matter. Comrade onyeagolu narrated that upon the call from the senate , the SSG invited him in his office at the government house only to be arrested while he was leaving the office by security personnel detailed by Mr Anara using his office as the then security adviser. The former PG claimed that Mr Anara used the then Nwafor of defunct SARS to invite DSS personnel to invade their family house, destroying property and arrested his elder brother and also made away with his private vehicle. He explained that later he visited DSS office and was taken to the then commissioner of police where Mr Anara refused to honor the invite sent to him by the command. ” This man in 2018 took me to court claiming I was damaging his name, but when the matter began, he was never seen in court and later he withdrew the case. He is claiming that he is not from isuaniocha , how come he is alleging details of what he earlier said he was not aware of any issues in my town. Those youths he is protecting and shielding in my town alongside Cosmos Okonkwo are now carrying guns in my community despite the fact that government had written to tell the people that those elements are not security operatives, I was removed just because I refused to agree to their clandestine plans to sell and share school land. Those hoodlums they call youths are now taken over the duties and responsibilities of the elders of my community, its quite sad and unfortunate that government have not considered our appeals and calls just because Mr Anara is using his influence against the overall interest of the people.” According to him, the cabal working with Mr Anara had chased so many people out of Isuaniocha including members of the Onyeagolu family and they had been destroying their properties, taking over their family house and also collecting rent from occupants of their houses in the community. ” Even the elders of my community went to Amanuke, town of the commissioner to warn them about their son causing problem in Isuaniocha, the elders of his community told them that their son does not listen to them let alone taking word of advice from anyone. The police officer that came to make peace , they collected his gun and used knife on him. Government knows how the gun was returned. Mr Anara knows the details too. I have every evidence to support whatever claim or allegation I am making, let a panel visit Isuaniocha without being controlled by the homeland commissioner.” Comrade Onyeagolu said that contrary to the release by the commissioner on why other people are not talking in the community, the silence is because anyone that talks risk being killed, attacked or their property destroyed as they continue to take people to Achalla community to go and swear that they will not talk or engage them in all their evil activities. ” I have the whole evidence, government have a way of finding out the truth if they want, let them come to my town and ask around, when you talk they destroy your property, a lot of people have been swearing. Let government collect gun from those rascals and see if my people will not open up and talk. We are talking because we want our community liberated. Everybody knows the entire truth even non indigenes living there also knows all these things am saying”. ” I am pleading with governor Soludo to set up an independent panel to look into Isuaniocha matter, if me or any member of my family is found guilty, let it be made known to the public, bringing a lasting peace to my town will no doubt bring about rapid development in the town and Awka North in general.” Reacting to the foregoing, the Homeland Affairs Commissioner Mr. Chikodi Anara said, ” I really hate to trade words with Anthony Onyeagolu. Looking ordinarily at what he is saying, is it possible that even the worst Government anywhere can remove a PG from office because he refused to collaborate with other people to sell land belonging to a school owned by the same Government? How do we classify this and other cock and bull stories he is telling? I have made it clear that my only concern with Anthony Onyeagolu is that one, he must answer to the shooting of Chidiebere Okoye, hitherto a star footballer that he, with his gang, crippled with bullets and quarantined into a wheelchair. Chidiebere is there at Isuaniocha for anybody to interview. I will forward to you the interview Chidiebere granted while in the hospital bed at Awka. Number two is that Anthony Onyeagolu must give account of why he, with his gang, abducted Angus Okoye in December 2018 and gruesomely murdered him the same night, leaving his young wife a widow and his six little children fatherless. The brothers of Angus Okoye and his wife are there at Isuaniocha for people to interview. These are celebrated cases, known to Isuaniocha people and they are seriously asking for justice in Court. What is he talking about? Anthony Onyeagolu had major issues with youths of the community for allegedly embezzling millions of naira belonging to them. The youths were said to have written a petition to EFCC and Angus Okoye was penciled down as principal witness as vice chairman of the youths. Chidiebere Okoye was also to be a witness. He announced dissolution of the youth wing of the Town Union and that move was vehemently resisted and he chased them about with arms and destroyed their properties. I had to do my job as a Security Adviser to the Governor in order to save lives. Why is he always talking about school land? Was Angus Okoye a member of the group of villages contesting the boundary of the land they donated to the school? The answer is no. Was there any shooting war around the school land or the disputed areas in which Angus Okoye was involved? The answer is again no. Going from pillar to post with stories to cover his crime does not help him at all. Claiming that all the petitions he wrote to the then Governor were frustrated and never allowed to get to the Executive Governor and in a summersault admitting that the same Governor set up a Panel that found out that his hands were clean amounts to double speaking. Another important thing for Anthony Onyeagolu to consider is that a judgment of an Awka High Court has laid to rest issues of the Panel and the land he is talking about. I advise him again to channel his grievances appropriately and to the relevant authorities if he has any claim. It is really very unfortunate that somebody in the mould of Anthony Onyeagolu is taking my time and the time of Nigerians following this story. I do not want to further join issues with him. My happiness is that the bereaved/concerned people are pursuing their matter to secure justice for their brothers against whom the hands of a villain had fallen.”