As the controversial decision to field a Muslim-Muslim ticket by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu continue to rage, the Chairman of one of the political parties believes the decision was borne out of arrogance rather than reality. The party Chairman who pleaded anonymity said Asiwaju Tinubu wanted to test and possibly demystify the decision advanced by adversaries in 2015 that forced President Mohammadu Buhari to drop him as his running mate. A former Chairman of the party who also aired his view on the issue, albeit anonymously, pointed out that the decision to pick Senator Kashim Shettima was not well thought out and may not fly except for the internal crisis engulfing PDP. Recall that President Buhari had in 2015 succumbed to pressure mounted against Muslim -Muslim Presidential tickets from several quarters of the APC on grounds that it will negatively impact the outcome of the race as he settled for Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as running mate. According to the source, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu reluctantly accepted the decision then but has now decided to put it to the test apparently to demystify Buhari’s decision of 2015.The source who quoted a head of a security agency said the Jagaban Borgu was out to prove to President Mohammadu Buhari that what he rejected in 2015 was possible. Recall that the Presidency had recently refuted an alleged memo from a security agency condemning the Muslim-Muslim. stating that no such memo came from the DSS The party chairman said: “I have it in good authority that the APC Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is not happy that he was dropped in 2015 because of the criticisms against Muslim-Muslim tickets and wants to prove to the President that it is possible. POLL “It was in this light that opted for a Muslim as a running mate against every persuasion. A head of a security agency told me this and they are watching him. Should he win, it would show that he has better political acceptability than President Buhari”. Also, a former Chairman of the party who preferred not to be named said the decision to pick Alhaji was not thought through, especially because of his alleged character traits. He said Shettima is a loner in the north and may not attract the vote Tinubu may look for, besides the fact that he is a Kanuri as distinct from the majority Hausa -Fulani tribe. “Shettima’s choice does not align with the Northern oligarchy. He has no camp in the Presidency, no camp within the governors and the former governors, in the Senate or anywhere. “Shettima is a loner, so he feels threatened and at the same time, he has arrogance. Besides all these, what affected him most is how he was introduced. Like Tinubu said, even Shettima doesn’t know and l did not consult anybody, l am confirming it to you, you media men who Shettima is. “The way Tinubu introduced him is where the trouble is “You can see a sign of arrogance in choosing Shettima unlike what happened during the National Chairmanship contest where before choice, everybody agreed. Another issue is that Shettima is from Kanuri and Kanuri is a minority in the North. “People have made mentioned of Amb. Babagana Kingibe as Kanuri, but they don’t know people were not as sensitive as they are now. The Hausa -Fulani majority don’t feel comfortable with Kanuri. “You can see the statement of Engr. Babachir Lawal and you can see how Osinbajo came. He was the choice of the South West, no one from the North selected Osinbajo. You need to give other regions their own space in a country like this. Whoever is going to deputize a Presidential candidate, you need to make consultations before announcing it to the public. Tinubu needed to give the Northern oligarchy chance to choose. “I don’t know who would accept a Muslim-Muslim ticket. I don’t know. We did it in MKO Abiola’s time but we did it for a very good reason because at that time there were no Northerners who were serious progressives so we wanted a transition to Progressive politics. And4 at that time, the regions have not become what they are today. “Whether anybody likes it or not it is a frontline issue. Whether they admit it or they don’t admit it, Muslim-Muslim ticket is a frontline issue.” According to the party Chieftain, the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the party is daring to the extent that if not for the crisis in opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party is an offshoot of PDP, APC would not get 1 million votes. He observed that the PDP is still struggling with deep-rooted trouble arising from the primary which he said has given APC a measure of space to restrategize.