A delegation of northern leaders has been assigned to meet with the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu over ‘vital concerns’ regarding his proposed running mate. The development comes barely 24 hours after the defection of the two-term Governor of Kano State and Senator representing Kano Central Senatorial district, Ibrahim Shekarau. Shekarau, whose defection was announced by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, during the plenary, had defected from the All Progressive Party to team up with the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Dr Rabiu Kwankwaso. Just as some of his contemporaries who left in a gale of defection, Shekarau stated in his resignation letter that he dumped the ruling APC over the unresolved issues of injustice, marginalisation and unfairness by Kano State Governor. Shekarau’s defection and unholy alliance with Kwankwaso have allegedly unsettled the APC and further changed the direction of ongoing consultation and negotiation among the northern governors. However, rising from a meeting of APC governors, gubernatorial candidates and ministers in Kaduna, North-West leaders had resolved to rather meet with Tinubu to present their case. The APC National Vice-Chairman (North-West), Salihu Lukman who disclosed this said that the meeting welcomed the initiative to commence the consultative meeting as vital for strengthening the party in the region as well as improving leadership engagements and cohesion within the zone. According to him, the governors and political office holders reviewed the state of the party at the national and zonal levels. -Advertisement- POLL They also acknowledged the challenges facing some APC state chapters and resolved to promote efforts at reconciliation as an urgent priority. He said, “The meeting noted the contribution of the North-West to the emergence and growth of the APC and its electoral viability, with the North-West providing about 39% of the votes the APC recorded in 2019 and 2015 presidential elections. “Therefore, the zone resolved to aggregate its interests and vital concerns and engage accordingly with the presidential candidate of the party,” he stated.