Ace Nigerian movie producer and deputy governorship candidate on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, Funke Akindele has promised to bring positive changes to the women, youths and children in the state. The 44-year-old filmmaker turned politician stated this during her unveiling by the Ikorodu Chapter of the party on Tuesday. Speaking during the event, Funke Akindele said that her political decision is a gesture of sacrifice they both will make to tackle the infrastructural problems in the state. According to her, “Jandor has sacrificed a lot talking about young people passionately for over seven years to plan this project, abandoning his business to make a change in the state. So, I am going to put aside my career now, I am coming out for the women, the youth, we have talents in Nigeria, we need to explore what we have. “We have both made sacrifices to join politics to bring positive changes to the people of Ikorodu and the state. We should build a state where our children can live rather than run and stay abroad. I am joining Jandor to bring a breath of fresh air to Ikorodu and Lagos. “I answered the call. We are the owners of Lagos, we will vote, win and rule the state. For the women, I am going there for you. For the youth and the children, I am there for you. We can do a lot for this state and country and make things work. We are youths, we can run, and we have the energy to fix Lagos State. For my Ikorodu people, I thank you, I will not put you to shame. PDP is taking over.” Presenting the flag of the party to Akindele, the state PDP chairman, Mr Philip Aivoji, said it was time for the party to take over leadership in the state. “When the time of a thing has come, no one can cover it. By the power of God, we have come to light up Ikorodu and all parts of Lagos State. By the Grace of God, victory is ours and it is certain in 2023,” he said. POLL Jandor said his governance will bring a fresh breath to the state and would be a clear departure from the norm. “We have brought a breath of fresh air to the people of Lagos. My deputy is a brand that will connect to both the grassroots and the people in the cyberspace. Formally, I want to present to you what we have christened a breath of fresh air. It is a clear departure from the norm,” he stated. Meanwhile, some Nollywood celebrities have taken to their respective social media platform to congratulate Akindele. While veteran actress, Joke Silva, wrote, “Well done, girl,” Dakore Egbuson, wrote, “Congratulations, my sister. May God grant you wisdom in this new endeavour.” Also, actress Juliet Ibrahim, wrote, “Queen, congratulations. #WomenLeaders #WomenInPolitics,” while Shan George wrote, “I find this truly awesome, the joy I feel right now is making my eyes teary. Yes, I believe.”