ONITSHA – The Foodstuffs Market, known as Ose -Okwodu Onitsha is now in a very bad shape and is bound to lose its numerous customers from the Northern part of the country who bring in food items such as dry fish, tomatoes, onions and other food supplies to the market. Newsmen who conducted a situation report on the ugly situation, gathered that the market authorities, Onitsha North Local Government under whose domain the market is located are yet to show concern over the dilapidated state of the market, especially Emejulu/Old Market Road portion of the market. The dilapidated state of the Old Market Road portion on entering the dry fish section of the market needs urgent attention. It was gathered that the portion of the road which caved in as a result of flooding is a great concern to both traders and their customers who troop to the market to transact their daily businesses. When our correspondent visited the site yesterday it was discovered that vehicles which usually ply the route no longer make use of the road as it is no longer accessible.Pedestrians also find it almost impossible to access the road at rush hours. This scenario , however,poses a great threat to lives of traders and customers using the road to access the market.lt also diminishes the fast pace of business in the entire market as it is close to Onitsha Main Market. Mr.Obidi Onyeturu ,a trader in the market blamed the poor condition of the market on bad market leadership since the time of the past administration in the State. According to the trader,”we have complained to the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the market who is commonly referred as “Chanchangi” to no avail.There is nothing else traders can do.We are hoping that soon the market authorities through the State Government will do something about it”. -Advertisement- POLL Mrs.Edna Ugodibia a fish seller at Ose-Okwodu Market lamented that the situation of all the roads leading to the market were all in bad shape. She enumerated the roads as Marine Road,Ajasa Street, James Street among others “Despite the huge amount of money being collected as stallage levy, including other levies by both the State Government and Ose-Okwodu Market leaders they are yet to consider rehabilitating the said market roads.”