 AWKA – Mr. Valentine Obi­enyem, media ad­viser to the presi­dential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, has alleged that some po­litical parties paid agents to malign the candidate by pub­lishing materials that portray him as enemy of Northern Nigeria. Obienyem, in a press state­ment in Awka, said the claim is supported by an acidic report credited to one A. G. Mahmoud, who sought to discredit Obi and bring him to disrepute by heaping false allegations on him. Obienyem queried if, “It was by coincidence that the report came when we were reliably informed that some political parties have charged their political office holders to hire people to relentlessly attack Obi with falsehoods on all available social media platforms.” According to him, the “Ob­viously non-existent AG Mah­moud”, accused Obi of doing the opposite of the things he did while in office. These in­clude his relationship with northerners in his handling of the relocation of goat and onion sellers, who constitut­ed a nuisance at bridgehead, Onitsha in 2006.” Among other things, Obi­enyem reacted to Mahmoud’s report on disturbances in Onitsha, which he said Obi handled by visiting the Onit­sha Army Barracks thereaf­ter, together with the Nation­al Emergency Management Agency and provided relief materials. Obi, according to him, also took far-reaching actions that fostered unity among all those living in the state to pre­vent such happening again. Also, Obienyem said the writer claimed that Obi re­jected an idea of exchange programme between the North and Anambra State; that Obi requested the DSS to remove an Hausa trader near his house; and that Obi equally deported people of nNorthern extraction back to Kaduna during his tenure as governor. -Advertisement- POLL All the, Obienyem said, were a calculated attempt to pitch Obi against the North. He said, “What Obi did in Anambra State was to send back underage beggars to their states, citing child abuse. “When a real deportation by the then Governor of La­gos took place, Obi fought against it, saying that every adult Nigeria’s right to reside wherever he desired should be respected. A single search on Google will show you the truth”. Obienyem said that Obi is very competent to become the President of Nigeria, and lamented that unfortunately it is the incompetent ones that always appeal to tribalism to hide their incompetence. “A sedulous enquirer would discover that as Gov­ernor, Obi celebrated Sallah with the Muslim community that visited him as a routine.”