Senator Ademola Adeleke, the Osun State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, has said that Osun State people are ready to reclaim their mandate stolen by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2018, at the Saturday’s polls. Adeleke, who spoke on Arise Television on Thursday, berated the ruling party for denying the main opposition party the use of the stadium and freedom park for its mega-rally, stressing that the time is up for the APC. “We have gone through all the 30 Local Government Areas of Osun State and the receptions were great. People are ready for PDP. They voted for PDP in 2018, APC stole the mandate and the people are saying that they want to reclaim their stolen mandate,” he said. On the assessment of the preparedness of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Adeleke said that the electoral body has promised to improve on their performance at the Ekiti gubernatorial election. “The INEC chairman and the Inspector General of Police have promised us that the election will be free and credible. INEC has promised there will be nothing like an inconclusive election like in 2018 in Osun State. We believe that the INEC and the Police will do things right. “People should decide who will lead them and this election will be a test case for the INEC and the security agents and we trust they will do things right,” he said. On the decision of the ruling APC to bar PDP from the use of the state stadium for its mega-rally, the governorship candidate said, “I have never seen this kind of government before. Osun State belongs to the people. The APC had its mega rally on Tuesday and we are to have ours today, Thursday but they denied us access to the stadium and Freedom Park. We opted for the technical school, but they also denied us. “I saw the governor at the venue of the signing of the peace accord. I asked him “why are they denying us the use of the stadium and the freedom park”, he said that he was not aware. I asked him to check and call his people to order. POLL “We are expecting our presidential candidate, governors and a lot of party chieftains. He promised to do something but up till 2pm today he hasn’t done anything, so we decided to use the party’s secretariat,” Adeleke said. “APC hasn’t been accommodating; its members destroyed my posters and billboards. They bring thugs from Lagos to be shooting all over the place. They should allow Osun people to decide who will govern them and not as they did in 2018. Osun people have rejected APC,” he noted.