The Super Falcons of Nigeria are set to make history in Morocco as they begin their African Women CAF tourney on Monday confronting the Bayana Bayana of South Africa in the group C first game in defence of their title. Having left the shores of Nigeria for the North African country early this week, the Nigerian ladies are very optimistic about coming back to glory days again after domineering the continent some decades winning the African Women trophy for nine times, until this recent past when Nigeria’s female football took a different dimension that led to the exit of Thomas Dennerby, the former coach of the Falcon. Although, those years of glory, kudos must be given to the Nigerian local coaches, who stood at the forefront of the Falcons! Coach Dennerby, during his stay in the country, was hardworking and made a mark with the team until an unhealthy political situation raised its ugly head on the Falcons and the team no longer hear the Falconer, which helped the Falcons depreciate in CAF ranking and its championships. Eventually, the female national team of Nigeria lost her winning rhythm and tactical style of play which they were known for, and amidst that entire crisis, the Falcons lost the connection of good coaching hands, as mediocrity crept in to devalue the rating of the once known Queens of African football with her indomitable posture to nothingness! More so, the advent of the COVID – 19 pandemic that ravaged the world of football crippling every economic activity across the universe did not only claim lives across Nigeria, Africa nay the globe, but did close down every country in the world; which did not only spare the former African Champions from sustaining their superlative form but degenerated them into the limbo. The Falcons had remained without a coach for almost a year. That condition also left them inactive in football with the social distancing medical therapy for human safety due to the coronavirus. The Falcons were also torn into various factions, players fighting against players, coaching crew pitched against each other; while their former coach, Dennerby, left in frustration because of some circular political power of division that played out, overtaking decency, decorum, orderliness for shortsighted individuals, who invaded the Falcons for personal aggrandisement, and to serve the interest of some powerful henchmen in government; alas, they crash-landed the team and went their various ways disgruntled. As it has become very obvious that the Falcons’ centre could no longer hold; the football federation started another round of discussion about who handles the Falcons. Of course, in our usual way of how the NFF usually roll with our football matters, the debate of whether a local is to be or not dominated the discourse space of which kind of coach handles the team. -Advertisement- POLL They (NFF) dilly-dallied with the sports ministry until Coach Randy Waldrum was hired from the United States of America to take charge of the team. No doubt, since the arrival of the American, the Falcons have been better for it. They played all their qualification matches without hassles to arrive at this stage where they are now to contest for the honour of who rules African Women’s football again. It is quite assuring that Coach Randy and the Falcons won’t disappoint Nigerians in their quest to redeem their image of a Champion to a mere contender of the tournament as we have observed in some of their outings in the past, where countries like Equatorial Guinea and South Africa suddenly became dreadful to the Falcons in female football tourneys. I mean, It is worth reflecting upon for the Falcons and the coaching crew so that they do the needful and bring back Nigeria’s lost glory days in female football, especially in this CAF Women Championship! You would recall that in the recently concluded Japan Olympics, Nigeria’s female team did not take part in the football category, which tells how much our female football had suffered the deadly blows of NFF maladministration in the country. It is on record that what projects Nigeria’s good image abroad is essentially sports. Be it whatever sport, football takes a longer range is shooting Nigeria’s image well amongst other nations in the world. So, when our administrators toy with this only wonderful tool of image projection for self-serving purposes, then, our nation and citizens will not have a place of pride amongst citizens of the world! Nigeria should not be relegated to the background amongst countries of the world in terms of sports generally because this is the only lethal weaponry that can reshape our battered image all over the place; whether we like it or not; it is the bitter truth as it stands now. In times of political wrangling in nation-building, football has always been there to heal the wounds and minds of the citizenry to keep the country running. So, it is too in every other sphere of our daily lives. And if this is the case, sports ditto football should not be neglected or be given to parochial- minded individuals to administer, otherwise, the critical issues currently plaguing the nation sports will just be a joke to what is to come in the near future if Nigeria’s sports is not salvaged and if Nigerian sports authorities do not put square pegs in square holes; we will continue in our failing syndrome of inadequate planning! As for the Falcons, this is another very rare opportunity to prove to Nigerians that they have come to stay because their outcome in Morocco will determine what is to be expected in their next global championship participation. However, Coach Ismaila Mabo remains the best of all the coaches that have handled the Falcons; his Russia World Cup outing stands out as the best as no coach has ever beaten his record of that “knock out” segment before the quarter-finals stage of that FIFA fiesta. Thank God it’s a world without end. Good Morning Nigeria!