LAGOS – The Alliance for Democracy (AD), which prides itself as the bedrock of progressive politics in Nigeria in the Fourth Republic, has declared support for the aspirations of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. It also threw its weight behind the presidential bid of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In a communique signed by both the Chairman and Secretary of CPC, Mallam Abdallah Muktar and Kola Ajayi respectively, congratulating Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the winner of the APC presidential primaries, the AD said the governor was one of the state chief executives on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 1999. The party noted that at the leadership and stakeholders’ meeting held in Iwo, Osun State on May 01, 2022, it was generally agreed that the party should work in agreement and support the candidature of Alhaji Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola in the coming gubernatorial election in Osun State on July 16, 2022. It stated: ‘All our members, loyalists and stakeholders are by this declaration, hereby direct them all to go out and vote Governor Oyetola for a deserved second term in office. “We equally enjoin all the good people of Osun State to vote Gov. Oyetola for continuity in good governance”On Asiwaju Tinubu, the party opined that by 2003, the APC National Leader was the only surviving governor on the platform of the AD in the Southwest, making him the only man standing for progressive politics in Nigeria. The party stressed that Tinubu singlehandedly fought hard and brought back to the progressive fold Ekiti, Ondo, Osun, Edo, etc. The AD eulogised Tinubu as a man of ideology and one who believes in party discipline and supremacy. POLL It stressed that Tinubu also believes in the vision and ethics of the Alliance For Democracy (AD). It added: “The leadership of the party congratulate him on his well-deserved victory at the APC primaries and his emergence as the party’s presidential flagbearer. “The party assures Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of their unalloyed support throughout the length and breadth of the country as one of us, and promised that the party will work tirelessly to ensure victory for Asiwaju at the elections in 2023.”