“Sri Lanka is bankrupt –PM.” CNN Report, July 4, 2022. Once upon a time, Sri Lanka was growing rapidly. Then, it fell into the hands of a government which believed in subsidies – in order to help the masses of course. The recently deposed President did something which would endear him to Nigerian Labour leaders. He cut taxes when the government was generating a surplus before COVID-19 hit. It was the wrong measure, at the wrong time and for the wrong reason. It was cheap politics and costly economics – for which the country is now paying dearly; and urchins swim in the presidential pool. By contrast Singapore, since Lee Kuan Yew, has operated on the principles entrenched by the man who took it From Third To First World In One Generation. That, by the way, was the title of the book he wrote. Yew was lucky; he did not have the NLC, members, current and departed, to contend with. Our “socialists” intimidated Nigerian Presidents; who continue to subsidise anything “subsidisable”. I just made up that word; but, it fits the story. POLL Our “socialists are at it again. Most were not good enough to be admitted to read Economics at any university; so, they read polemics, like Cubans living in socialist Stone Age. Ask any of them where they would rather go – Singapore or Cuba – all expenses paid. None will go to Cuba. Singapore is far better than Nigeria and Cuba because it does not believe in subsidies. Here is what Yew said. “Watching the increasing costs of the welfare state in Britain and Sweden, we decided to avoid this debilitating system…when government undertook primary responsibility for the basic duties of the head of the family, the drive in people is weakened. Welfare undermines self-reliance…” that was the first lesson Nigerian leaders failed to learn. The second lesson was just as vital. “Our aim is to have partial or total recovery for goods and services provided by the state…We have established a virtuous cycle – low expenditures, high savings; low welfare, high investments..” By contrast, Nigeria is characterised by high expenditure by governments at all levels, low savings by the populace; high welfare and low investments by all the stakeholders. In short, we have established a system of governance which promotes corruption and discourages investments. Buhari administration’s Social Investment Programme, SIP, or Social Welfare Programme, SWP represents the sort of welfare programme we all love. For seven years, SIP or SWP received more budgetary allocation than education, health and works combined. Yet, by the time Buhari returns to Daura next year, more people will be living in poverty than in 2015. Furthermore, if only half of the funds devoted to welfare had been invested in education, public universities in Nigeria, would not today be on strike. But, don’t ever expect the neo-Socialists to understand that SIP constitutes high expenditure and low investment; whereas the same amount spent on education represents high investments – and it promotes a virtuous cycle. Why Fuel Subsidy Is Unsustainable “If you let me write $200 billion worth of hot [dud] cheques every year, I could give you an illusion of prosperity too.” Lloyd Bentsen, US Statesman. All subsidies amount to governments allowing people to spend more money than they have. That approach to governance works fairly well when revenue surplusisgeneratedthanthegovernmentexpenditure. But, the scheme breaks down immediately government revenue falls below expenditure. The negative variance leads to government borrowing more to pay the bills and, in the process, creating higher inflation. Most Nigerians cannot seem to understand that the classic definition of inflation is still “too much money chasing too few goods”. Right now, we have food and fuel scarcities; government are spending more than they earn; the Federal Government is borrowing heavily from all sources – including the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, which is the lender of last resort. Millions of Nigerians are being paid for no work done (e.g staff of Nigeria’s four refineries) and they troop to markets in search of goods that are not available and services which are not being provided (e.g power supply by Discos); and they drive inflation up. “And, having looked to the government for bread, on the very first scarcity, they will turn and bite the hand that fed them.” Edmund Burke,1729-1797, in Thoughts and Details on Scarcity. Nigerian government leaders are mostly economic illiterates. It is easy for them to fall into the trap of mindless populism; and to drag the entire country into the trap. It is therefore, not surprising that the Buhari administration, which campaigned against subsidy, turned around to embrace it; and now, finds itself being vilified by the people whose consumption it has been partly underwriting. Global scarcity and the sudden sharp rise in the price of finished imported fuel have placed the FG in financial jeopardy. Government has suddenly become aware that it might run out of money; and will be unable to continue to supply fuel at less than recovery cost to Nigerian consumers. Instead of understanding and adjusting to the inevitable, the Federal Government is facing hostility from those who want subsidy to continue – irrespective of the consequences of continuing. Let me touch on two repercussions which governments are battling with right now. States Are In Deep Financial Trouble “Revenue allocation shortfall: Payment of salaries uncertain in months ahead – GOVS.” Report, July 7, 2022. Governors, especially members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, including the best educated among them, wentalong withthepaymentof subsidies as if it was an independent variable in our complex economy. They assumed, quite wrongly, that payment of subsidies could continue indefinitely without having adverse consequences for other obligations. Those who knew the truth were too afraid to speak out for fear of being stigmatised as being “anti-people”. It has finally dawned on them that they were living in fools’ paradises. Are public servants who might not receive their salaries not people? Are old pensioners, now being punished, not people? Are ASUU members not people? Are doctors owed several years entitlement not people? Yet, all these highly productive workers in the Nigerian society are being short-changed because the FG wants to continue with the unsustainable fuel subsidy policy. As the cash crunch gets worse at state level, there is increasing danger of a nationwide strike of public workers – such as Lebanon now experiences. Federal Government Could Run Out Of Money Sri Lanka, now in turmoil, was also importing and subsidising the consumption of the commodities until the balance of trade became seriously unfavourable. By then, the government had got Sri Lanka hooked on subsidised fuel. Removing subsidy became impossible until the country ran out of money. Government collapsed; anarchy followed. One thing is certain. Whoever eventually takes control will approach the International Monetary Fund, IMF, for bail out. The conditions that will be imposed will be more draconian than if the ousted government had removed subsidy on its own. Anybody who thinks Nigeria cannot run out of money is a damn fool. The question those wanting subsidy to continue is: what happens if Nigeria runs out of money?