Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us, (1John 3:1). Jesus said come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke on you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and you shall find rest to your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light (Matthew 11:28- 30). It is a wonderful story of love for Christ to die for sinners like us. This wonderful story of love still calls from Calvary’s mountain, begging us to come and obtain salvation, blessing, healing, promotion, victory over enemies and peace of mind that no one else can give, because he is our Lord and creator of heaven and the earth. Life has its own challenges and heavy burdens. Jesus is inviting us to lay our burdens and worries down, and rest in him. You may be discouraged and depressed. You may be tired and alone. You may be overwhelmed by life and circumstances. You may be drowning in the sea of life and you have no one to lift you out. Is your burden a lack of job? In all these terrible situations, Jesus is beckoning on us to come and lay down our burdens. Burden weighs one down. Burden robs one of the happiness of life. Burdens debar one from realizing the abundant life available through the blood of Jesus. The Lord said we should take his yoke upon ourselves. The yoke God wants you to carry here is a training yoke, but Jesus will carry the greater burden for you. Jesus will only give you what you can carry. Being with Christ, we learn about his overwhelming love. We also learn to depend on God and his promises never to forsake us. Our faith must be built to forget the despair of this world and believe in our all sufficient and loving God. Remember, Isaiah 9:6 says, “For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, counsellor, mighty God, the everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace. Above all, give your life to Jesus Christ. Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord (Acts 3:19).