***Seeks For N100m Compensation BAUCHI – A Bauchi based human rights legal practitioner, Y.A Haruna Esq of Y.A Haruna & Associates has instituted a suit before Bauchi State High Court in the matter of application by Sa’idu Abubakar and Abdulaziz Usman for enforcement of their fundamental rights to personal liberty, fair hearing and right to dignity of human person as guaranteed under Sections 35, 36 and 34 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as Amended ). The human rights lawyer instituted the matter against one Alhaji Rabo Abdulkadir, seeking a declaration that the act of the respondent of detaining, chaining the applicants in his residential home is on infringement to the applicants’ fundamental rights to personal liberty, fair hearing and right dignity of human person. He is also seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining the respondent whether by himself, agents, cohorts, or any person acting on his behalf or receiving directives from him from further arresting, detaining or doing anything prejudicial to the applicants. In another order, the lawyer is seeking the Court to direct the respondent to pay the applicants the compensation of the sum of N100,000,000.00 at N50, 000,000 each for infringing on their fundamental rights He also seeking an order of the court directing the respondent to issue a written apology to the applicants as well as for such further or other orders as the Court may deem fit to make in the circumstances. The grounds upon which the application was brought according to the legal practitioner was that the respondent infringed on the right to fair hearing of the applicants. The respondent also infringed on the fundamental rights to liberty of the applicants making the applicants to need to be compensated for violating their rights as well as the need to issue an apology to the applicants for violating their human rights. -Advertisement- POLL Speaking to Journalists in the premises of High Court Complex after the case was adjourned on the cause of issue, Barr YA Haruna explained that the respondent, Alh Rabo Abdulkadir had detained the applicants and two others in his residence under an inhuman conditions by chaining them for four days without feeding. “What actually happened is that, there is a boy called Ismail that was arrested in the residence of Alh Rabo Abdulkadir here in Gwallaga within Bauchi metropolis, he was caught in the house trying to steal some items. When he was caught, he was interrogated by the owner of the house, Rabo Abdulkadir”. “Upon interrogation, he admitted that indeed there was a time he stole some items from the house and sold same to one Sa’idu Abubakar who is a very young man of 18 years. When Sa’idu was invited for further interrogation in the house by the same man, Rabo Abdulkadir, he said that he sold the items to his boss who is Abdulaziz Usman who was also invited to the house”. “When he was invited, luckily he was there with his parents as well as the parents of Sa’idu too. They pleaded with the man that having admitted that they bought the items from him, let them think of the best way to resolve the problem amicably. They told him that Sa’idu and Abdulaziz told the owner of the house that they were not aware that the items were stolen, if they had known, they will not have bought them” “surprisingly, the same man further interrogated Ismail Yakubu as to whether he has been entering the house alone or with another person to which he answered that he had been going with another guy called Aliyu Abdullahi. All in all, he had 4 people in his custody”. “When they were trying to resolve the problem amicably, Rabo Abdulkadir said no, he had decided to detain them in his residence. He chained them, kept them where he kept his old car, locked them, tied their legs with their hands giving them food once in a day for 4 days. The families pleaded with him, but he did not listen to them”, he said. According to Barr , “Like isma”il and Aliyu Abdullahi were there for 4 days while Sa’idu and Abdulaziz were there for 3 days. They pleaded with him but he remained adamant. The elder brother of one of the persons in his custody fell back to the Elders in the community thinking that if they met him, he would certainly listen to them believing that they are his contemporaries”. When contacted for reactions to the allegation against the Police by the legal practitioner, the Command PPRO, SP Ahmed Wakili said that he will not comment because the matter is before a court of competent jurisdiction.