Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Nurses, under the auspices of the University Graduates of Nursing Science Association (UGONSA), have called on Nigerians to get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVC) and prepare to vote out politicians who have penchants for embarking on medical tourism abroad. The Association said it was heart wrecking that Nigeria loses about $2 billion every year to medical tourism, noting that the amount if put together for five years, and deployed for the upgrade of Nigeria’s health facilities, health research capabilities, and healthcare infrastructures, would launch the country’s health system to among the best five in the world. “Politicians who seek treatment abroad are directly telling other Nigerians that it is their own lives alone that matter and that the rest of us are sub-humans that deserve to be treated in the “mere consulting clinics” they have egregiously reduced our hospitals to”, the Association said. According to UGONSA, it is high time medical tourism became a topic for the acceptance or rejection of politicians at the polls in Nigeria. The Association stated this in a communique issued to Journalists at its Conference in Abakaliki on Thursday, which was signed by the National President, Chief (Hon.) Solomon E.O. Egwuenu, and the National Secretary, Nurse Goodluck .I. Nshi. The Association expressed worry that “rather than pay a premium on fixing our health system, alas!, our politicians are shamelessly busy competing on whom to win the ignoble title of “Medical Tourist 1 of Nigeria”. “Our hospitals are in shamble because our politicians and their families are not treated in our hospitals. Our hospitals will be fixed to be in the world-class ranking any day our political class starts getting treatment from our hospitals”, it added. The Association disclosed that the callousness and insensitivity of politicians to Nigeria’s health system had forced seasoned healthcare professionals, especially Doctors and Nurses, “to seek shelter in the responsive health system of other countries with responsible leaders where their skills, professional development, and remuneration are enhanced.” POLL “Ironically, our politicians are treated abroad by these same seasoned Nigerian healthcare professionals that left our health system for abroad out of sheer frustration. “The poor performance of our health system in global ranking has never been the fault of our healthcare professionals. It is a systematic fault of not putting the right facilities and motivation in place by the country’s successive leadership to enable our healthcare professionals to replicate the type of wonders they have been performing when they travel abroad in our own health system. “The monies wasted on medical tourism are enough to rejig our health system and make a competing payment to the healthcare professionals that will dissuade those currently practising in the country from contemplating going abroad and compel those that have left for greener pasture to return home. “It is an affront to our collective sensibility to see our politicians abandon our hospitals that they have run aground through age-long fund deprivation and neglect for the treatment of helpless Nigerians that elected them while they themselves jet out abroad at the slight of a headache to be treated in well organized, well-furnished, and well-funded hospitals with taxpayers’ monies. “Such is abominable and unacceptable and must not be allowed to continue. We, therefore, charge Nigerians to get their permanent voter’s cards (PVC), prepare to vote out, and never vote for any politician who has a penchant for embarking on medical tourism abroad. “Politicians whose pastime is medical tourism have testified that they do not believe in the Nigerian system. If our health system is not good for you, our political system should also not be good for you”, the Association added. On the growing corruption and security challenges in Nigeria, UGONSA, said “The level of corruption among our politicians is very pathetic as it is obvious that we now practice “Lootocracy” instead of “Democracy.” “The spate of borrowing for consumption and re-looting with no obvious commensurate project on ground is unacceptable to nurses as it is to the generality of Nigerians. “We therefore strongly call for accountability and transparency in governance to rescue the country from its economic doldrums occasioned by financial profligacy as this will have unimaginable economic enslavement of our unborn future generation. “The spate of insecurity in this country is also a severe concern to nurses as it has callously led to the loss of precious lives that nurses strive to protect and preserve. “We call on both States and Federal Government to do more in the area of security to tame the ugly trend of worsening insecurity.” UGONSA also thanked the Head of Civil Service of the Federation for releasing the circular for the proper placement of graduate nurses that was approved by the National Council on Establishment (NCE) at its 43rd meeting held in Abuja in January 2022 and called for its speedy implementation in all health institutions where nurses work. “Any delay in implementation of the circular will amount to further traumatization of the already traumatized and frustrated nurses who have been psychologically and financially bruised by the inexplicable injustice of under placement meted on them in the civil service over the years despite their unalloyed loyalty to Nigeria and to the patient,” the Association concluded.