With just two days to the Osun 2022 Governorship election, a chieftain of the  People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former Delta State governorship aspirant, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu to watch his utterances against other political parties, saying politics in Osun is very different from that of Lagos. Onuesoke said the APC leader should not be carried away with his unchallenged popularity in Lagos State while reacting to Tinubu’s statement of ‘PDP, Labour Party and other opposition parties will labour to death’ at the APC Mega rally in the state. He said Tinubu’s confidence will backfire because Osun State PDP governorship candidate, Ademola Adeleke is permanently on ground in terms of structure and popularity compare to the APC governorship candidate. He further reminded Tinubu that he should not compare elections in Osun State to Lagos state because the coming poll in Osun state is a different ball game entirely. “I do not expect Tinubu to underrate other political parties in Osun 2023 Governorship race, especially the PDP. Ademola Adeleke of PDP who is challenging the incumbent Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola is no doubt a strong contender and he stands a good chance of emerging victorious. “He lost to Oyetola in what was obviously a keenly contested election that was decided with a run-off after a clear winner failed to emerge on the first ballot. “As a former Senator, he is well known across the state. His 2018 gubernatorial aspiration as well as his being a member of the illustrious Adeleke family of Edeland, combine to make him a popular candidate to defeat. “He is also known to have a wide political structure peopled largely by leaders of the PDP in the various wards and local governments of the state. The candidate will also benefit immensely from the street credibility and state-wide popularity of his late brother, former governor Isiaka Adeleke. POLL “This is why I am saying that Tinubu should not compare the Osun election to Lagos. In Lagos, Asiwaju does not have strong challenges as you have in Osun state. It is a one-man affair. “However, the setting in Osun is different entirely. Tinubu and his APC loyalists should expect a shocker from PDP in Osun 2023 Governorship election,” Onuesoke stated.