A socio-cultural group, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), has tasked foremost Yoruba leaders to initiate genuine reconciliation among the leading South-West political heavyweights ahead of the 2023 Presidential election. The ARG spokesperson in Ekiti State, Michael Ogungbemi, while addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti at the weekend, said the region can only produce a successor to President Mhammadu Buhari if it can demonstrate unity of purpose from which other regions of the federation can take a cue. Afenifere chieftain maintained that such unity was imperative to actualise the presidential aspiration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader and former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The group also noted that the South-West would have lost out in the 2023 power-game but for uncommon unity displayed by leading politicians in the region, who stepped down for Tinubu during the APC Presidential Primaries. The group lauded President Buhari for allowing the will of the majority to triumph during the APC Presidential Convention. Ogungbemi posited that Southern Nigeria would eternally be grateful for the patriotic zeal of the APC Northern Governors’ Forum that insisted that power must return to the South in the spirit of normative order and promotion of justice, fairness and equity in the system. “The ARG, on behalf of Yoruba race, applauded President Buhari for his statesmanship, ditto to the Northern Progressives Governors’ Forum, who rose above clannish sentiment and regional affinity by displaying the gravitas to embrace a pan-Nigerian decision that power must shift to the South. “It is now time for the South- West to display uncommon unity to complement the patriotic and progressive efforts of the APC members, who overwhelmingly elected Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the primary. -Advertisement- POLL “This is not the time to put up the toga of ego and sulk in the enmity of the past. We must chart a new course and work hard with the other five zones of the country for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to ascend the throne. “We hereby humbly task Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Chief Bisi Akande; the Chairman, South-West Governor’ Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu; Governor Kayode Fayemi, Ibikunke Amosun, Rauf Aregbesola and other bigwigs in the progressive fold to midwife sincere and genuine reconciliation among contending forces and unite for Tinubu.”