LAGOS  – The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Mr. Isa Ali Pantami, has said that in the last few years, the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Econony, has taken significant steps to position the country in the global tech race. Pantami spoke earlier in the week in Abuja, while declaring open the 10th edition of the Digital Africa Conference & Exhibition themed: ‘Positioning Africa in the Global Tech Race.’ Pantami stated that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration recognised the need for a regulatory environment that supports, rather than stifles development, and has developed a number of policies in this regards. “Nigeria has a potential critical mass of ‘digital natives’ that can transform the country into a regional and global digital powerhouse. “These creative Nigerians can play a key role in the creation of digital jobs across all sectors of the country; jobs that are either based on or are dependent upon Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs),” Pantami said. While noting that the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) emphasises the importance of the innovation and startup ecosystem to the development of an indigenous digital economy, the minister vowed that his ministry would continue to position Nigeria to develop this ecosystem to transform the country into a sustainable and thriving digital economy. He stated that in recognition of the role of emerging technologies and in preparation for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the Federal Government was actively building competence in these technologies and had set up a National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics to serve as the digital laboratory for advancing skills development and innovation in emerging technologies in Nigeria. “In addition, we are establishing a National ICT Park and a National Digital Innovation Centre to create an atmosphere that would usher in innovation-driven culture among the Nigerian populace,” he said. -Advertisement- POLL Pantami said that for Africa to assert itself in the global tech space, there was the need for effective collaboration, and insisted that “we must urgently improve international cooperation and work together towards achieving our national and regional development plans in building the Africa we want.” While reiterating Federal Government’s commitment to providing the enabling environment required for such partnerships to thrive, he reaffirmed government’s willingness to continued partnerships and forging new ones with industry stakeholders in this regard.