UCHE NWOSU As the 2023 governorship election approaches with jet-like speed, many people in Abia State tagged “God’s Own State” are beginning to narrow down their choices for the all-important exercise. As of the last week of June 2022, the candidates that will represent the various political parties in various elections have emerged in compliance with the Electoral Act 2022 and some stipulated guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as it relates to the party primaries or a consensus arrangement. The various players are now awaiting the kick-off of the campaigns expected to begin in September. The governorship contest has now been narrowed to four candidates of the major political parties in the state, namely: the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), whose candidate is Uchenna Eleazar Ikonne, a professor of optometry, and immediate past Vice-Chancellor of Abia State University (ABSU). Ikonne defeated Mr. Lucky Igbokwe, a USA-based businessman, while others, asides Mrs Ezenwanyi Ngozi Jonah, did not show up at the venue, alleging that the governorship primary was hijacked by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, claiming that the delegates’ lists were strange to them. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) shadow election produced Prof Gregory Ikechukwu Ibe, who had in April decamped from the ruling PDP, a decision he blamed on the realisation that the party of which he was a founding member in the state, has shown that it would not guarantee the principle of fairness, inclusiveness and equity during the primaries. He has since released his road map to birth a new Abia. In the case of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which has been neck-deep in a leadership crisis that continues to threaten its very foundation, there are two factions locked in a supremacy battle, one of which has Hon. Nwankpa as chairman, backed by a former governor of the state between 1999 and 2007, Chief Orji Uzor Kalu; while the other faction led by Dr. Emmanuel Ndukwe enjoys the blessing of Chief Ikechi Emenike, a chieftain of the party. As such, there are two claimants to the Abia APC governorship flag- High Chief Ikechi Emenike from the Dr. Ndukwe-led faction, who defeated six other contenders in the primary election; just as the Chief Donatus Nwamkpa-led faction produced Dr. Uche Ogah, a former Minister. Others with candidates for the 2023 Abia governorship poll include the Labour Party (LP), and Dr Alex Chioma Otti; Young Peoples Party (YPP), and Engr Enyinna Chima Nwafor; All Peoples Party (APP), and Chief Mascot Uzor Kalu; and Bishop Sunday Ndukwo Onuoha and the African Democratic Party (ADP). The various parties have continued consultations with stakeholders and leaders of various groups across the state to sell themselves to the individuals or groups. These are the real contenders, even if some are pretenders to the exalted office of a governor. A critical analysis shows that while some enjoy grassroots support due to some variables, others are merely floating, banking on the premise that mother luck would see them through. Top Contenders -Advertisement- POLL Top contenders for the job, who are in a fierce contest to replace Governor Okezie Ikpeazu who completes his second and final term of four years on May 29, 2023, according to findings by Daily Independent are the PDP the ruling party in the state; the main opposition APC; and APGA. During their primaries, the aspirants were enthusiastic that winning the primary of their parties is just like winning the main election, even if there can only be one occupant of the Government House among them. Therefore, clinching their party ticket became so acrimonious to the extent that some of the aggrieved aspirants resorted to litigations when they thought that they had been schemed out of the race. Nonetheless, the other three parties, LP, APP and ADP had less stress in their gubernatorial primaries. However, the candidate of ADP, Rev Sunday Onuoha, Bishop of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, had it rough contesting against his opponent- Otisi Ebitu-Ukiwe, son of Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe, a retired Navy Commodore and former Chief of General Staff during the early years of the Gen Ibrahim Babangida military regime. As noted earlier, the first three political parties have some advantages and indeed, trouble to deal with. For instance, the PDP is banking on the grass root support that has helped it retain its hold since the advent of the fourth republic in 1999, except in 2007 when the then Governor Orji Uzor Kalu broke off from the flank and formed the Progressives Peoples Alliance (PPA) which produced his successor- Theodore Ahamefule Orji. So, from whichever angle anybody looks at it, the party has a strong presence at the grassroots, but allegations of a self-succession bid by some people in the state could be a minor challenge. Even so, some sections of the state see Prof Ikonne as an Ngwa man itching to replace his kinsman, a situation believed to an aberration, while others disagree, arguing, after all that both the incumbent governor- Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, and Prof Ikonne, despite being of Ngwa extraction are of different Senatorial Districts of the state. While Governor Okezie is from Abia South, Ikonne hails from the Ngwa section of Abia Central. Unperturbed by such arguments, the PDP candidate and his party continue to make inroads across the political landscape of the state. Challenges Of Intra-Party Squabbles Threaten Big Names In Abia APC’s Intra-Party War As Threat For the Abia APC, it has not been an easy road. Since 2019, members of the party have remained practically at war, leading to series of litigations before, during and after the governorship primaries. Ahead of the 2019 elections, the current governorship candidate had challenged the election of Hon Donatus Nwankpa as APC state chairman. The state chapter is engulfed itself in an intractable hoard of crises. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, who was initially behind the Nwankpa faction is believed to have sneaked out of the faction to align with Emenike, which perhaps explains why Emenike is referred as the leader of Abia State APC, even as supporters of Kalu see this as an aberration since he is a serving Senator. However, after a long battle, Emenike won the party’s governorship ticket to which former Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah, still lays claim. Ogah who conducted his own governorship primary as Emenike did, insists that he did his primary according to the APC’s directive. For now, a 12-man Reconciliation Committee, has been saddled with the responsibility of bringing the warring factions to a roundtable. However, an Abia High Court, has however ruled against the victory of Chief Emenike in a controversial primary election, the nullifying the sult, following a suit instituted by Mr. Chinedum Nwole and two others. Justice O. A. Chijioke declared that Emenike lacks the locus standi to contest the primary election, having earlier been suspended from the party, and that both he and the APC State Chairman, Chief Donatus Nwakpa breached article 9.3 of the APC constitution by going ahead to participate in the primary election. The judge, therefore, directed the APC National Working Committee to desist from having further dealing with the duo based on the subsisting court order. APGA Is No Better Unlike chapters in some of its neighbouring states, the state’s APGA may not be fairing any better with two candidates also laying claims to the party’s guber ticket. Our correspondent recalls that Prof Ibe, the Chancellor of Gregory University Uturu (GUU), emerged winner of the governorship primary conducted in Umuahia. The university administrator had defeated Etigwe Uwa, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria; retired Army General, Ijioma Ijioma, as well as Chief Chikwe Udensi, an international security expert, at the shadow election. However, as the poll was about to commence, Udensi walked out of the venue, only to declare himself winner of the APGA primary at another location. Following a rebuttal of his claim, Udensi challenged Prof Ibe’s nomination in court, praying that he be declared the governorship candidate of the party in the state. Some political analysts believe that Otti, a former top banker, could ride on the wings of Mr Peter Obi, the party’s Presidential candidate, seen by many youth across the country as a break from the past, during the governorship poll of Abia State That notwithstanding, the national leadership of APGA has accepted Prof Ibe as its flag bearer in the state, based on the report of the committee set up for the exercise, led by Echezona Etiaba SAN, son of the former Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Dame Virgy Etiaba. In the YPP, Enyinnaya Nwafor, son of the former Deputy Governor of Abia State, Chima Nwafor clinched the ticket of the party effortlessly as he was elected flagbearer. Surprisingly, the erstwhile contender and oil magnet, Desmond Anyaso accepted to serve as his running mate. Riding On Popular Momentum Meanwhile, Alex Otti, who contested the governorship poll under the APGA in 2015 and 2019 and later joined the APC, decamped to the Labour Party when it was apparent that APC favoured Emenike. Some political analysts believe that Otti, a former top banker, could ride on the wings of Mr Peter Obi, the party’s Presidential candidate, seen by many youth across the country as a break from the past, during the governorship poll of Abia State. Another politician in the governorship race is the Mascot Uzor Kalu. Mascot, the younger brother of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, is also putting his hat in the ring. Win or lose, the Kalu’s family will be unperturbed because the senior Kalu has been governor from 1999 to 2007. Rev Onuoha, seen as an underdog, may spring some surprises during the election, even as the cleric who regretted that Abia has, for so long, failed to live up to the yearnings of the people, because the people have “over… the years… failed to identify leaders who can heal our land.” He seeks the support of the people so he can “be the balm and solution to the challenges in Abia State,” forging ahead with his underground consultations, even as many say how he intends to spring the much-expected surprise remains a guess. One rumour that has swept across the state unhindered is that the Deputy Governor of the State, Ude Oko Chukwu, may dump the ruling PDP, and pitch his tent with the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), under which platform he intends to actualize his dream of replacing his boss next year, a first in the history of Abia State. With the big parties enmeshed in ego-induced troubles, it left to be seen how soon they can each come out of their intra-party wars and begin the task of selling their agenda for Abia State and its people ahead of the all-important 2023 general elections.