Cornerstone Insurance Plc, provider of risk management services, has announced a gross premium income (GPI) in excess of N20billion in 2021 business year. This is as the company also declared a dividend payment of 5 kobo per ordinary share of 50 kobo for the financial year ended December 31, 2021 to be disbursed at the firm’s annual general meeting scheduled to hold next week. The dividend payment will be subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) holding on 26th July 2022.. Speaking on the results, Ganiyu Musa, the Group Managing Director, stated that the Company’s performance in 2021 was as a result of strict adherence to a well laid out long term growth strategy based on sound business principles and the core values of Integrity, Empathy, Professionalism, Innovation and Team Spirit. According to him “We are indeed grateful to all our esteemed customers (Institutional, Retail and the Broking community) for their continuous patronage and for entrusting us with all their risk management needs. These, coupled with the ingenuity and resolve of our staff and our commitment to exceptional service delivery have made us one of the leaders in Nigeria’s Insurance industry”. “As a team, the management and staff have continued to build a sustainable and profitable business on the platform of transparency, corporate governance, sound risk management practice and value creation for our customers. All these, he said, have culminated in the Company achieving a landmark result in its history, by earning Gross Premium Income in excess of N20 billion”. POLL Kehinde Olorundare, the Chief Financial Officer said: “The Board of Directors of the Company will propose to the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, 26th July 2022 at 1:00p.m. the dividend of 5k (five kobo) per ordinary share of 50k (fifty kobo) each. Dividend will be paid to the duly mandated accounts of Members so entitled, whose names appear in the Register of Members”. The AGM will be streamed live via the Company’s website. This will enable Members and other Stakeholders who will not attend the meeting physically at the Agip Recital Hall, Muson Centre, Onikan Lagos, observe the proceedings. Group Financial Highlights Profit & Loss Account with Gross Premium Income of N20.9 billion in 2021 as against N17.5 billion posted in December 2020. He added that “the increase of 19per cent was as a result of our superior value proposition and increased patronage from all our institutional and retail customers.Underwriting Result of N5.2 billion (December 2020: N1.08 billion).” Growth of 381per cent was driven by focus on cost optimization and our conservative approach to underwriting.Profit before Tax of N3.7 billion (December 2020: N2.19 billion). The increase of 69per cent was driven by our strong revenue growth and improved operational efficiency.Profit after Tax of N3.5 billion, an increase of 60per cent (December 2020: N2.19 billion). Balance SheetTotal Assets of N49.3 billion, an increase of 13per cent (December 2020: N43.8 billion). Growth has been driven largely by strong growth in turnover which dovetailed into growth in insurance funds. Shareholders’ Funds of N20.17 billion (December 2020: N17.45 billion). Cornerstone Insurance Plc was incorporated on 26 July 1991 as a private limited liability company and became a public limited liability company, quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1997. The organisation was established to conduct insurance business in a professional, ethical, and customer-focused manner. As part of its corporate brand strategy, the company implemented a re-branding exercise in 2008 to position Cornerstone as a leader in the industry, part of which was the unveiling of the new corporate identity for the company. The Company is licensed and re-certified by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to carry out both General and Life businesses. The classes of Insurance business, we currently underwrite Motor Vehicle, Aviation, Marine, Engineering All Risks, Asset Protection, Liability to Third Party, Oil & Gas, Group Life, Credit Life, Mortgage Protection, Term Assurance, Wealth Creation Products and Takaful (Islamic Insurance).