Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 general election has sent a message of congratulations to Osun state governor-elect, Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He also hailed the LP candidate in the election, Lasun Sulaimon Yussuf and his running mate, Adeola Adekunle Atanda, praising them for the hard fought battle and display of sportsmanship despite the outcome of the poll. He reminded members of the Obidients family across the state and country not bemoan the performance as the movement and party is barely four weeks into the race, and was up against entrenched interest that have been in the state for decades. Nonetheless, he said the party made impact despite the vicissitudes. Obi added that a lot of work needs by the family to be done to raise the consciousness of the people to challenge facing the country as a whole. His words: “I extend my warmest personal congratulations to Sen. Ademola Adeleke on wining the Osun State Gubernatorial elections.” “I also congratulate the candidate of our Labour Party Rt. Hon Lasun Sulaimon Yusuff and his running mate, Adeola Adekunle Atanda, for a hard fought battle and their spirit of reslove and sportsmanship, despite the outcome. “To our the Obidient Movement Family and our supporters nationwide, the outcome of this particular election is not a verdict on our exponentially growing srtength nationwide especially when viewed against the fact that we are barely one month old in the party and we had to contend with forces that have been entrenched in the state for the last two decades. “However, within this very short period of only a few weeks, the Labour Party has made its presence and political impact felt nationally. We must strengthen our collective resolve not relent in our noble march to take back our country.” POLL “Much work remains to be done, hence we must focus the totality of our efforts now on the forthcoming 2023 General elections. In the fullness of time, our message of rescue and recovery will resonate through out the length and breath of the Nation and most Nigerian electorate will buy in into our mission to take back Nigeria, for the purpose of rescuing it from continued decline , shift the National psyche from consumption to production and from sharing dwindling resources to creating wealth and frontally combating poverty.”