KATSINA  – The race for who replaces Rt. Honourable Aminu Bello Masari as the occupant of the General Muhammadu Buhari Government House in Katsina, North- West Nigeria hots up, three major contenders have so far emerged in the jostling among the various political parties for the number one seat in the only state that has so far produced two Nigerian Presidents since the onset of the country’s fourth republic in 1999. The governorship election is expected to, at least, lay to rest the issue of which of the two dominant parties- the ruling APC and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that had ruled the state between 1999 and 2015, really owns Katsina. Among the top contenders for the ticket of the ruling All Progressive Congress APC in the state is Dr. Dikko Umar Radda, former Director-General of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), who outpaced high profile aspirants such as the former Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mustapha Muhammed Inuwa; Abbas Umar Masanawa, former Managing Director, Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPMC); Ahmed Musa Dangiwa, the former Managing Director, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria; Mannir Yakubu, the state Deputy Governor; and four others. They are, Senator Sadiq Abubakar Yar’Adua, and the former Chief Personal Security Officer to President Buhari, Abdulkarim Dauda Daura. In the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Yakubu Lado Danmarke, 61-year-old businessman, who is a former member of the House of Representatives (2003–2007), from where he was elected Senator for Katsina South constituency in 2007, clinched the ticket after polling 66.24 percent of total delegate votes. He defeated Yusuf Majigiri, Ahmed Yar’Adua and Shehu Inuwa Imam. Another political force that cannot be ignored without negative consequences, according to keen followers of developments in the state, is Engineer Nura Khalil, flagbearer of the New Nigeria People’s Party NNPP for the make or mar election, helped by the followership of Rabiu Musa Kwakwanso, former Kano State governor and Presidential candidate of the party. APC’s Troubled House There is the belief among political stalwarts that the incumbency factor may help the ruling APC to return to power in 2023, even as many agree the party must put its house in order, beginning from resolving the brewing crisis that followed the recent gubernatorial primary in the state, bringing all aggrieved aspirants to a round table, where they would jointly chart the way forward, in addition to others who contested for various National Assembly seats. The state APC chapter became engulfed in crisis soon after the governorship and legislative shadow elections, threatening its chances in the 2023 polls. Already, key members are dumping the party for the rival PDP and the NNPP, following the crisis that became pronounced when Dr. Inuwa told his supporters at a meeting how he was betrayed because of his principled stance not to allow himself to be controlled, which was why a “clueless and subservient” candidate was selected. POLL He pledged to work for the victory of his supporters who won various APC tickets, and even those who decamped to the NNPP because of injustice. Reacting, the APC vice-chairman in Katsina, Bala Habu Musawa, reportedly threatened expulsion for those who participated at meetings where the dignity and integrity of the party’s governorship candidate would be dragged to the mud henceforth, including office holders. For him, those who were defeated at the recent primaries should either accept their fate or resign their membership of the party, expressing confidence that the APC will be victorious at the poll. But rather than calm frayed nerves, such grandstanding and power show may be seemingly emboldening party stakeholders and their supporters, giving rise to fear that President Muhammadu Buhari may lose his home state in next year’s elections except something is done to salvage the situation. Dr. Kabir Musa Yandaki, Head of the Political Science Department at the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua University, Katsina, sees the fear as real unless measures are immediately taken to assure members that their worries are being addressed, calling for the intervention of Governor Masari, as leader of the party in the state, to avert its imminent implosion. “If the APC in Katsina fails to reconcile its members ahead of the 2023 general elections, the party will face serious challenges at the poll. In fact, it will lose the election.’ Already, he continued, ‘the people are aggrieved, believing that the economic hardship faced in the country is a direct result of the party’s failures. “With such crisis raging within the APC, the party should not waste its time expecting victory during the elections. “And if you observe, you will notice how the major opposition parties have presented popular politicians as their flag-bearers. If you look at the PDP, it has presented a popular gubernatorial candidate, NNPP has also presented a popular candidate as its flag-bearer,” he said. Similarly, he described as uncalled for, recent verbal attacks on President Buhari and Governor Aminu Masari in statements credited to some of the aggrieved APC leaders. “The president, even with his age, deserves the respect of all party faithfuls and Nigerians at large,” he stressed, urging the gubernatorial candidate, Dr. Radda to extend his hands of fellowship to aggrieved aspirants and their supporters. Whether the ruling party will go into the impending battle with a divided house will become evident in the coming weeks and months. Will PDP Benefit? Senator Danmarke, a grassroots politician and Chairman of Kankara Local Government Area, who is contesting the Katsina State Governorship seat for the third time has vowed to wrestle power from the ruling party this time around. In 2015, he contested under the PDM umbrella, losing to the incumbent, just as he did when in 2019 he ran under the PDP. He hopes his party could reclaim the seat it lost in 2015, having learnt serious lessons from the previous polls, even as pundits believe his determination to get the party’s ticket again and the developments within the ruling party could work in his favour. Expectations are that unless the ruling party puts its house in order by winning back the confidence of aggrieved party members, the PDP is set to reclaim power in Katsina State in 2023, a situation they believe does not speak well of the party, given that it is the President’s domain. A quiet achiever and old-timer on the political turf, he is believed to enjoy the support of youths in the state, besides his ability to serve as a rallying point for various power blocs. A foretaste of the impending battle for the number one seat in the state was the recent defection of thousands of APC supporters to the PDP fold. The defectors were led by Alhaji Ali Maikano Matazu, a retired director at the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), who contested for the Matazu/Musawa Federal Constituency primary in the APC, but lost due to perceived “injustice of the party.” Receiving the over 5,000 defectors, Danmarke, accompanied by the state party Chairman, Yusuf Salisu Majigiri, among other party leaders, alleged that the PDP won all the local council seats in the recently conducted local government elections, but the mandates were stolen by the ruling APC. He is confident that the forthcoming general elections will offer a platform to prove the truth about which of the PDP and APC really is on ground in the state, urging his party members to get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVC) ready ahead of the elections. At another forum, he had assured newsmen that he has what it takes to win the election for the PDP next year and indeed govern the state, such as his pedigree, political experience, unflinching support for vulnerable households and closeness to the grassroots. He promised to run an all-inclusive government if elected as the governor of the state in the forthcoming general election His entry into the race is bringing excitement and apprehension, being a strong PDP contender with age and sustainable economic track records on his side. Key stakeholders are said to be rallying support for him to chart a way forward for his aspiration. But political analysts believe that he may find it difficult to win the 2023 gubernatorial, because he is from the southern part of the state like the incumbent Governor Masari. Keen observers of the power dynamics in the state warn the PDP candidate not to rely on his perceived strength, especially his political faithfuls, but to carry the state PDP leadership along in the scheme of things, because of the foundation already laid by the late Yar’Adua, which was consolidated by Barrister Ibrahim Shema. NNPP As Third force The PDP may not be the only beneficiary of the sloppiness in the APC, especially as the Katsina NNPP, by virtue of the clout of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwakwanso, the Presidential candidate, has also receive decampees from the ruling party. This, analysts believe, is complimented by the personality of Engineer Khalil, who many believe he is neither a political neophyte, nor a push over in the political terrains across the state, having contested with the then late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua for the governorship seat under the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in 1999 and lost. He, however, fizzled into political oblivion afterwards, resurfacing in the NNPP this time to contest elections again for the number one seat in the state. Last Line The weeks and months ahead of the Katsina gubernatorial battle are, indeed, pregnant, amid questions begging desperately for answers. Will the APC leadership in the state come down from their high horse and embrace true reconciliation in view of the high stakes, including the possibility of the President losing his own state to the opposition? Can the PDP ride on the euphoria and popular acclaim, especially among the youths to reclaim a seat it lost seven years ago, in the battle to determine whose Katsina State really is? Can the Kwakwansiyyar tsunami ensure a sweet victory for Khalil in the all-important election? It is still eight months to the election and many eventualities are yet possible, and the electorate can still be swayed depending on what happens in the race to the Katsina Government House within the period.