Parthian Partners Limited, over the weekend, celebrated 10 years of operations in an event that was as exciting as it was nostalgic. Clients, friends and well-wishers from all over, joined the company, led by Oluseye Olusoga to commemorate 10 years of outstanding achievements. The anniversary of the company was with an award with it maiden awards ceremony as members of staff who had excelled over the past year were rewarded in the midst of guests. In attendance at the epic night of activities, were captains of industry, political leaders, clients and friends of the investment company. Some of the guests present were Chairman Fate Foundation, Fola Adeola, Chairman Lenox Group, Yemi Adeola; Managing Director/ CEO Central clearing Securities, Ibrahim Jalo Waziri; Chairman Abraham Strategies; Dr Abraham Nwankwo,; Engineer Adebayo Adeola, and Dr Olusola Labinjo Mr Adedotun Sulaiman, the Chairman of Parthian Group, while commenting on the early beginnings of the company and its achievements, said: “Today we are celebrating all those who have contributed to the success of Parthian and the industry in general. For us, success was achievable because we had a clear vision of what we wanted to achieve, and we were focused making it work. Parthian Partners became an interdealer broker in Nigeria at a time when the concept was alien to the region, so we had to build from the scratch. “It was no mean feat to introduce this vision and work with regulators and develop a framework for its regulation and operations, a vision which birthed not only a successful business but also a thriving sector.” “As we celebrate Parthian’s 10th anniversary, it is an appropriate time for us, as pioneers of this great company, to reflect on our phenomenal achievements and to commit ourselves to build a legacy for the future generations.” Mr. Sulaiman further disclosed. POLL During the event which was attended by prominent industry personalities, celebrities, staff and management of the organisation and other stakeholders, the Chief Executive Officer of Parthian Partners, Mr Oluseye Olusoga said the company has greatly contributed to bridging the gap in both the wholesale and retail financial sector. same topic, advocated for multi-level collaboration amongst key stakeholders within the states and specific bodies. He said: “part of our Key focus at NCDC is to give keen attention to sub-national support activities. We have seen how collaborations with key bodies like the Red cross have spurred improvements in the sector, especially at the local levels. We will continue to drive initiatives to ensure Nigerian health security is strengthened” Dr. Aliu Isreal, National Laboratory Manager, Clina-Lancet Laboratories, while addressing how public-private partnerships can be strengthened, said: “We cannot over emphasis the role of public and private partnership. For players like us in the private sector, solving customers’ challenges sits at the heart of what we do. And as we continue to place priority on meeting the customers’ needs, we are propelled to improve our system or mode of operation. This by extension improves the health sector”. The forum had in attendance many leading voices in the health sector including Dr. Ngozi Azodoh, Director Health Planning, Research and Statistics; Dr. Olaolu Aderinola, Head Response Division Department of Health Emergency, Preparedness; Dr. Ifeanyi Nsofor, Senior New Voices Fellow, Aspen Institute Washington DC; Dr. Patrick Nguku, Country Director, AFENET; Dr. Njide Ndili, Country Director, PharmAccess Foundation; Dr. Festus Soyinka, Director, Public Health Ogun State Ministry of Health; Dr. Alex Okoh; Director Public health, FMOH; Dr. Yahaya Disu, Director, Risk Communication NCDC; Niniola Williams, Managing Director, DRASA Health Trust; Dr. Anne Adah-Ogoh, Head of Policy, private and sector health alliance of Nigeria; Dr. Omokhudu Idogho, Managing Director, Society for Family Health; Dr. Emmanuel Agogo, Country Director, Resolve to Save Lives.