Hon Chidi Duru is the Deputy National Organizing Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with select reporters, the former lawmaker explains what the party is doing to retain power in 2023. TONY EZIMAKOR brings the excerpts: Amid the threat to defect to opposition parties, there’s this report that your Chairman promised some lawmakers who lost the primary of their tickets as part of the bargain for them to remain with the party. How true is that? The only condition in which the party can substitute any Candidate is well spelt out , either the Candidate resigns and says he is not running or the Candidate dies. The power to substitute at will is no longer there. So, it was not possible for the Chairman to have made that Promise at the Senate, to go to the Senate to consider a barter arrangement to necessitate; a quid-pro-quo. I’m in the party and I can tell you, our Candidates emerged through the primary and in accordance with the guidelines and INEC observed the Primaries and within the window set by INEC, 3rd-9th for presidential and national assembly primaries. Threats by lawmakers You must know that it has become a seasonal habit. Every four years there must be a movement across parties. Those of them who did not get tickets to return to the upper and lower Chambers, some of them for very good reasons may think that they have to go to another political party to retain their seat. Those other political parties may also be waiting to harvest disaffection from one party or the other. So it is a seasonal thing. And I think that this time around it is not different. If anything, this time around, it think level of disaffection is not as it was in the past when the level was over 97% . It happened in 2003 again in 2007. It is a seasonal habit (by Nigerian politicians). Whilst in APC it is a concern that a number of them could not secure ticket to come back, that is not to say it is a fresh thing, that it has not happened before. For those in the national assembly, the wish is that for those of them who have done well, I’m one of those who formatted the idea that for those who have done well, especially for the legislative work, you give them as many opportunity as possible to come back. Because there’s what you call institutional memory because the older or longer you stay in the parliament the more experienced and respect you command not only among your peers but the others leading the country, as president, governor etc. It is not that the chairman promised them the ticket of the party, the visit is to let them know of other opportunities available in the party. Yes it is good to placate them to stay with the party. What is happening in Abia Central Senatorial District where the party did not submit any name even as it apparent Hon Sam Onuigbo emerged? -Advertisement- POLL The truth is that the party submitted the names of Emeka Atuma but for whatever reason, INEC refused to publish his name. He has however gotten an order of court compelling INEC to publish his name, the party has been served I’m aware. There’s also another suit by Sam Onuigbo who has challenged the whole issue and APC have been served. He is claiming that he is the rightful Candidate who won the primary to represent the APC. Any comments on the propriety or otherwise of the action of the party now, I’m aware is subjudice. What is the situation with the placeholder, what is happening, is that the party has found it difficult to shop for a Vice Presidential candidate? As far as INEC guidelines are concerned, APC has complied with the requirement of law. We have submitted and uploaded the name of our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and joined to that , in the hips , is Mallam Masari . Unless the vice presidential candidate says he is not interested and decides to withdraw or resigns as provided in section 33 of the electoral Act, the party will welcome him with open arms . What is constant is the VP will come from the north, any zone of the north. That is the standard of the party. It does not come within the conjecture of Muslim -Muslim Ticket , infact the issue of whether it is a Muslim -Muslim ticket is resolved already with the choice submitted. ls it that the party cannot find a Christian northerner, when you are looking at competence? We have a candidate now, if our vice Presidential candidate steps down, and another competent person is found, that joins the ticket. But today as we speak, we have a vice Presidential candidate, and that candidate is Masari. In the North, we have people who are Christians and those who belong to other religion. The criteria of number two is not a criteria that says it must be a female. Why don’t we talk about gender? Why don’t we say that APC must have a woman running mate as a criteria? We are at a point where what we are considering is competence. We are at a point where we should not be looking at the structured zoning based on some agenda that does not reflect competence or nationalism. If we find it in a woman, why not?. If we find it in Jigawa or Benue State, why not?. But what we are saying is that it must come from the North. APC Chairman, Adamu said Ahmed Lawan participated in the party primaries, but INEC is saying it was Machina that participated, what actually happened? The NWC of the party met and approved and submitted the name of Senator Ahmed Lawan as the candidate of the party, for Yobe North. I’m aware that Machina has also gone to Court, so the matter is now subjudice. We are a law abiding party, if at the end of the day, based on the prayers before the court, if the court decided that he should be the candidate of our party, we will do the needful. Is there any documents showing that Ahmed Lawan participated in the primaries? There are no documents to show the participation of the Senate President, but bear in mind that decision are made for certain reasons, it doesn’t mean we are always right. But when we sat as NWC of the party, decision was taken and that decision was that the name of senator Ahmed Lawan should be submitted as the candidate of the party. On what part of history would you be counted vis-a-vis the ongoing Peter Obi wave sweepingacrossthecountrysinceheisyourkinsman from Anambra? Obi’s politics and mine are different. We don’t belong to the same political party. He was governor of my state, I respect him, where he did two terms. He was Governor under APGA, at that point, I was in the National Assembly, though before he came into politics. In any case, I respect him for what he has achieved and his talent and his ability to have found his way into opportunity to become the governor of Anambra State. I also know that when we left PDP, he joined PDP, but he has now left PDP, he is flying the flag of Labour Party. So we play our politics differently, I respect his views, and I also know that he has managed to have some swat of support across the divide, it transcends across not just in Anambra, but across the country. The essence of politics is competition, we are not a one party State, and I respect his decision to put himself before Nigerians, and if Nigerians find out that he is better candidate to meet with the expectation and yearnings of what they need at this time and vote for him, so be it, and he becomes our President. But should Nigeria find a case for APC to retain power in 2023, and for APC to give them hope that things can get better, and for APC to, using the institutions of governance and knowledge of how Government can be run, to keep and hold the realms of power, as we have done and I will continue to participate in that process. I’m confident that given another opportunity, APC will be much more better than it is currently. Is Obi a threat to APC? Every party is a threat, Sowore is a threat, Kachikwu is a threat, Atiku is a threat to APC, but what is important is that we are not complacent. APC understands that the party in power is a sitting dock, waiting to be taken out. We understand also that Change is for the opposition to takeover power and for the party in power to lose power and become an opposition. On the basis of that, APC has long before now, worked hard to ensure that it can communicate to Nigerians what it will be, should the party be reelected in 2023. One of the first things we have done is that while other parties are managing their internal crisis or are trying to find their way out of their internal crisis, APC has managed the various tendencies in the party. Therefore, it is easy for us, across board, that as of today as I speak, even before the July 1 window of uploading the State Assembly and gubernatorial candidates, APC has resolved the State Assembly in five States out of thirteen States. Out of 28 governoship candidate for the 2023 general election, APC has resolved all twenty eight, but only ten are being upload today, the other eighteen is because we are fine tuning the deputy governoship candidates that will run with them and before Tuesday next week, we will be done with that. The whole essence of it is that we are starting on time. We want to dust this and get it behind us.  