LAGOS – As different groups supporting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential flag bearer continue to pitch tents with candidates for the VP slot, the frontline support group, the Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group (AATSG) has thrown its weight behind former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima. Otunba Abayomi Odunowo, the National Chairman of the AATSG, dropped this hint in Lagos Thursday during a parley with media men. Otunba Odunowo maintained, “Among all the candidates being tipped for the VP slot, former Governor, Sen. Shettima remains the most outstanding in terms of pedigree, deep knowledge of Nigeria’s leadership issues and a generally acceptable disposition”. He said, ” If Sen. Shettima is given the slot as VP, he would not only galvanize the support of the Northern political elites, but he would also mobilize massively for votes from the electorates. Former Governor Sen. Kashim Shettima who is reputed for nurturing talents was the one who identified the incumbent Borno State Governor, Prof, Babagana Umar Zulum, who has continued to transform and still rebuilding the once conflict-ravaged State into a preferred destination to the admiration of everyone and is still working to see that peace returns to the State. “Any group or persons pushing that the current Governor of Borno, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum should not complete the wonderful things he is currently doing in Borno is not a lover of the people of Borno. We must understand that when a sitting Governor leaves his seat, it throws the State into difficult situations and it sets back the State leading to underdevelopment due to lack of continuity. Two examples are that of Adamawa during Obasanjo when he picked Atiku and Jonathan when he picked Sambo from Kaduna, though Kaduna has picked up now since El-Rufai came in as the Governor.“The Borno State Governor should be allowed to complete the wonderful job he is currently doing, apart from the issue of gender that we believe he would rectify soon. “All said and done, he has been performing well and he should complete this good work for the good people of Borno. Otunba Odunowo vouched, “Like his principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, if and when picked for the VP slot, as advanced by AATSG and other well-meaning Nigerians, Shetima would work seamlessly to engender cohesiveness and a robust transformational leadership for the Nation.” -Advertisement- POLL On the issue of a Muslim/Muslim ticket, Otunba Odunowo said, Nigeria has grown beyond regional, religious and other sentiments that are rather retrogressive and is now looking towards advancement in terms of real economic growth and transformation as encapsulated in the progressives’ ideology. Besides, he said the drive for membership recruitment for the AATSG has continued to expand as more chapters of the group are daily being inaugurated.