YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Government clarified on Wednesday that the state-owned international airport had not been downgraded, contrary to insinuation in some quarters. It explained that the absence of scheduled flights to and from the Bayelsa International Airport for a couple of weeks now was not the fault of the state government, but had to do with some technical issues involving the two airline operators. The Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, offered the explanation when the leadership of the Federated Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Bayelsa State Council, paid him a courtesy call in Government House, Yenagoa. He said the two airlines, Ibom Air and United Nigeria Airlines (UNA), were carrying out what he called D-Check on their aircraft, which had also affected their flight operations from their primary routes. Ewhrudjakpo explained that the D-Check is a major maintenance check to determine the airworthiness of an aircraft after it had made commercial flights for a period of 10 years. He said the state government was in touch with the management teams of both airlines, adding that normal flight operations would resume at the airport before the end of the month. Ewhrudjakpo further said, “I can assure you that the Governor Diri-led Administration is very much on course. I know that you are going to ask us what is happening to the Bayelsa International Airport. “There are a few issues, but they are not really our issues as a government per se. We are aware some people are pushing the news that the airport has been downgraded. That is not true. The Bayelsa Airport has not been downgraded. POLL “What happened is that the two airlines working with us have gone for D-Check. The D-Check means a plane going for a major maintenance check after it had been put to flight operations for 10 years to determine its airworthiness. “If you watch very well, even flights in their regular or primary routes, like the Port Harcourt to Abuja route, have now been reduced to only one daily flight.”