ABUJA – Director-General of World Trade Organisation(WTO), Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has counselled Nigeria to be proactive in meeting the conditions spelt out during the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference that took place in Geneva ,Switzerland recently in order to access fisheries funding. Okonjo-Iweala who stated this on Tuesday in Abuja during her official visit to the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, underscored the need for Nigeria to benefit from WTO Fisheries Funding. Okonjo-Iweala’s visit to Nigeria comes barely a month after the WTO’s Council of Ministers meeting which was held in Geneva between June 12 to 17 with a major focus on improving trade, health, food security, and economic reforms which aim at building economic resilience globally. She explained that Fisheries Funding Mechanism, is envisioned to support developing and least-developed countries in implementing a prospective agreement to curb harmful fisheries subsidies. It would be recalled that during the12th Ministerial Conference (MC12), Okonjo Iweala was quoted to have said, “We all know that a healthy, productive, sustainable, blue economy is one where our oceans are replenished, where our fish stocks are also healthy, and where fishermen and fisherwomen who depend on such resources continue to earn a decent living,” “Many members have told us that they need capacity building and technical assistance to better manage their fisheries and implement the disciplines that will be in the Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies. “This Fund is something that will be incredibly important to help us help those who need it.” She pointed out that about 260 million people depend on fishery for their daily survival, adding that 12 million of these people are in Africa. POLL She, therefore, advised Nigeria to deposit the instrument of acceptance in WTO as well as fine-tune other things required for the country to benefit. In her welcome address, Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, commended the Director General of WTO for her sterling leadership and tenacity that led to the positive outcomes at the recently concluded MC12. Katagum assured that Nigeria would not rest on her laurels in the implementation of the outcomes of the Conference, adding that steps have been taken to ensure timely and effective implementation of these outcomes.” She said: “Nigeria welcomes the outcomes of the MC12 and notes the great progress that the MC12 made. “We note, however, that we must not rest on our oars but should take this success recorded at the MC12 as a sign that with the right leadership, a lot can be done and we must build on this momentum to make progress in all other outstanding areas of work at the WTO. “On return from Geneva, I immediately notified Mr President about the outcomes of the Ministerial Conference (Monday 20th June, 2022) and we are in the process of preparing a Council Note to inform the Federal Executive Council (FEC) of the outcome and the steps that need to be taken to ensure timely and effective implementation of these outcomes.” She revealed that her Ministry, in collaboration with critical stakeholders, had met to specifically consider the Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies and deliberated on how Nigeria could implement the Agreement while also taking advantage of the opportunities presented by the newly created WTO Fish Fund. She noted that the outcome of the stakeholders’ meeting and the requirements of Nigeria on the WTO fish fund include “Technical Assistance in the determination of Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing – This could include assistance in developing appropriate domestic regime, training in enforcement, training domestic fishers, and ensuring an ability to take appropriate action with respect to foreign fishers operating in Nigeria’s water. “This activity requires equipment to monitor fishing activities which is essential to enable Nigeria to trigger the prohibition of IUU fishing. “Capacity building to carryout Stock Assessment – it is important to build the capacity of relevant institutions/ministries/colleges of fisheries in the determination of overfished stock in the Nigerian waters based on best scientific evidence which would trigger the prohibition in Article 4 of the Agreement.” It would be recalled that the proposed Fund will be operated by the WTO with partner organizations to tap relevant expertise, such as Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, International Fund for Agricultural Development, and the World Bank Group. Around $20 million in contributions will be targeted over the course of the Fund’s operation, with an initial starting amount of around $10 million.