The former Commissioner for Information and Communications during the tenure of former Governor Rotimi Amaechi, Dame Tamunoibim Semenitari resigned from the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). IBM’s resignation came barely twenty-four hours after another strong member of the party and Amaechi’s ally, Dr Dawari George dumped the party. This has brought to three, the number of top-notch members of the opposition party in the state that have left the APC in less than forty-eight hours. George had served on a peace and reconciliation committee. He was also in the House of Representatives while he lasted as a member of the party. In a letter addressed to the APC Chairman of ward 5 in the Okrika local government area of the state, Ibim said “I write to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress with effect from today (dated July 9, 2022). I appreciate the friendship, camaraderie and opportunities that this platform has provided me to serve my state, region and country even as I wish the party well”. Before now, Ibim was appointed to serve as Acting managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, shortly after the expiration of Amaechi’s tenure where she served as Commissioner. The resignation of the CNN-Award-winning Journalist did not come as a surprise to many in the state. During the last APC presidential primary for the 2023 election, Ibim pitched a tent with the campaign camp of the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. An informed source disclosed that there was a bad feeling between Amaechi and his former Commissioner and decided not to draft her into his campaign team. “Even when the Vice President invited Madam to join him in his campaign, she took excuse from the Vice President and still went and informed the former minister of Transportation. He snubbed her”. Meanwhile, there are speculations that the gale of defection that has suddenly hit the party is due to the APC’s bad leadership in the state. Some of the governorship aspirants in the last gubernatorial primary are alleged to be angry with Amaechi over his choice of his business partner, Architect Tonye Cole as the flag bearer of the party. POLL Dr Dawari George and Ibim Semenetari were in the Amaechi faction of the APC in Rivers state while Barrister Golden Chioma who resigned last week from Senator Magnus Abe’s camp was quoted as saying that there was “no future in the party”.