OSOGBO – A chieftain of the Local Government Service Commission in Osun State, Elder Tunde Adediji, has appealed to public workers in the state to protect their permanent voter’s card (PVC) against being corrupted or sold. Adediji, who made the appeal while speaking with newsmen on the preparation for the Saturday governorship election in the state said that the PVC is the only power they have to determine who becomes their chief executive in the next four years. The Local Government Commission Chieftain, however, scored Governor Oyetola high, saying that no government has surpassed him in terms of infrastructural development within the space of time he has governed. Adedeji, stated that ”Anyone saying that prompt payment of salary, pension and gratuities by Mr Governor are not achievements is either irresponsibly ignorant or satanically mischievous,” stressing that “Anyone who does what Napoleon was unable to do is greater than Napoleon”. He noted that Osun State Civil Service was a reflection of the society, explaining that the “state government is paying them as at when due. To whom much is given, much is expected. “The request the government has always been making from the workers is to be diligent in their duties, honest and loyal to the government and people of Osun State” He enjoined them to troop out in their large numbers and cast their votes for Governor Oyetola. The Osun LGSC boss who condemned campaign of calumny by some politicians said, the good jobs done by Mr Governor would speak for him on Saturday, saying his efforts in transforming the entire Osun cannot be over emphasized. POLL “Governor Oyetola deserves a second term for him to complete his good job for the citizens. His people-oriented programmes like health, education, agriculture, provision of foods, the welfare of the aged, and vulnerable, youths empowerment, and infrastructures among others have been contributing to the development of all and sundry. “The only way people can appreciate Governor Oyetola is for them to demonstrate their unalloyed support for his second term bid. Let us all join hands together and ensure the return of Mr Governor to the office come Saturday” Elder Adedeji, however, called on the local government workers across the state to show their complete love to Mr Governor by voting him in for the second term in office on Saturday’s election day, adding that they should not allow themselves to be deceived by the oppositions.