Hon. Ogbonna Nwuke, a former member of the House of Representatives is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Rivers state. In this interview with DANIEL ABIA, he speaks on the latest crisis in the party which was a fallout of the choice of the running mate of Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the party. He also speaks on developments in Rivers state and other sundry issues. Excerpts: What do you make of the outcome of the last PDP Presidential primary in Abuja giving the role of your party as an opposition for the past seven years going to eight now? The convention has come and gone and the outcome is known to Nigerian people. There was a strong expectation that the party leadership would understand the need for power shift. As loyal party people, we in the south have accepted the outcome of the convention and we hope that some corrections would be made subsequently. You cannot have a party candidate from the north and at the same time a party national chairman from the same north. Coming out from the convention, we hoped that reason would prevail. We are not in any way perturbed about what has come to be known by everybody now. We know what happened at the convention. We know that the Sokoto state Governor, Waziri Tambuwal was allowed to speak twice even when he had the window to have spoken his mind. When the scheming behind the scene began to play out, Tambuwal made a second appearance at the podium. We don’t want to dwell on that. But one thing we take home is that Governor Nyesom Wike ran a strong race. He didn’t run as a minority. He didn’t run the race as a southerner. Governor Wike relied strongly on his supporters who understood the input he has made in the party. He turned the PDP into a major opposition voice. But we were shocked to watch an emerging video of the party chairman (Dr. Iyorchia Ayu) describing Tambuwal as the saviour of the party. We were surprised that a party chairman could do that. It was partisan, distasteful and it was an evident of his political immaturity. There are serious issues that had been made after the convention. Those issues are self-inflicted. We believed on the convention night that the south was robbed of the opportunity to present the presidential candidate of the PDP. I put that blame on the senior citizens of the party who ought to understand that we have a fragile relationship in Nigeria. The unity of this country comes first even before power. We understand the regional relationship that exists in Nigeria. For me, I just see these men as power mongers. The slogan is one Nigeria, but the action they took does not reflect that. Governor Wike alluded that the south-south Governors betrayed the region’s opportunity to produce a presidential candidate. Between the Governors and Tambuwal, who do you think actually betrayed the region? Governor Wike has his reasons for making that statement. But I am looking at the bigger picture. The southern governors in a meeting said that all the political parties should field southern candidates. You can see that APC has kept fate with that. Labor party has also done the same by picking a southern candidate. PDP has not done that. Wike is a point of contact in this case. The major setback we got on that day when voting began was the southern interest of the people. But when it mattered most, they betrayed the yearnings of the south. What in your opinion could have prompted Atiku to opt for Ifeanyi Okowa other than Wike who came second in the primary, as his running mate for 2023? It is a matter of perception. There are moments to politick and there are moments to administer in politics. Wike was a minister and there is evidence anywhere that he did extremely well in that capacity. He was a chief of staff to (Rotimi) Amaechi and he didn’t step out of his duty. Everybody who is active in politics and administration knows this fact. They should see Wike as an administrator and as a politician. He holds his strong views as a politician. (Olusegun) Obasanjo made a statement that he made a mistake when he chose his number two man. He was referring to Atiku’s strong character. The circumstances at which Atiku chose Okowa has become a big issue in the country. Atiku didn’t beat Wike in such a big margin. Wike was primed to win that convention, everybody knew that. The votes swung because of the lackluster performance of Tambuwal, Bukola Saraki and Bala Mohammad of Bauchi state. These men refused to press for their own interest but queued behind Atiku. But for the purpose of the party unity, the flag bearer should have chosen Wike who has what it takes to win the election for the party. Everybody agreed on this fact. Governor Wike had earlier said he was not the one interested in becoming a Vice President. He told them to rather use Governor Ifeanyi Ugwanyi or former Governor Donald Duke from the south-south. Uqwuanyi is respected in the south-east. These were his suggestions. When NWC voted, Wike won with a wide margin. We don’t know what prompted Atiku’s choice of Okowa. We saw how Wike stood his ground in support of Tambuwal during the Port Harcourt PDP presidential primary in 2018 and other monetary support he gave to the Sokoto state on two occasions, don’t you think Tambuwal’s action during the Abuja convention was a betrayal of some sort? POLL What Tambuwal succeeded in doing is that he is not somebody to be trusted. If Tambuwal’s conscience doesn’t prick him, then leave that to him and his God. Wike did what he was supposed to do as a friend. Tambuwal only proved that people were supposed to be used and that friendship does not matter. There is a deep crack in the PDP presently and we have about eight months or so to the next general elections, do you think this challenge of the party will be resolved before going into the elections in 2023? In other to have peace, we have to look for peace. Governor Ortom put it succinctly that aggrieved members in the party must be reached and things must be sorted out with them. It does not matter what people are saying, PDP is reeling at the moment. Everybody knows that there is trouble in the party. The trust of the party is shaking. It is shaking because somebody chose to mishandle things. That is not who we are in the PDP. When it comes to conflict resolution, everybody knows that PDP has always known what to do. There is a wide gulf. There is an injury created by Atiku that has divided the party. We must put the blame where it belongs. It will take the intervention of God and that of understanding to resolve this. We can’t pretend there is no problem. We have a big problem. There is a lot of dissatisfaction in the party. Ayo Fayose’s statement that this is the turn of the south to produce president, is not something to be ignored. Fayose has only re-echoed that fact. It is unfortunate but not unforgiveable especially in a victory that you were supposed to be reconcilable. While in Turkey for a vacation, Wike was rumoured to have met with APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu in France. We have seen topnotch politicians trooping to his country home in recent times. There is also the rumour of Wike’s planned defection to another party, what do you make of all of these? These are rumours actually. They fall within the realms of speculations. In times like these there are bound to be conversations. We don’t know the details of those conversations which are also private. Wike is like an old wine which comes with more vintage with time. What you are seeing is a fact that the contributions of the Rivers state governor is widely acknowledged. These are not inconsistent with the way politics is played. Like I said, there are bound to be conversations. You don’t close your doors in the face of somebody who says I want to have a talk with you. I think that is what Governor Wike is doing, opening the doors to those who respect him and want to have some talks with him. Wike I know is not a man who stands by the wisdom of his thought only. He is one who consults with his associates. I know at the appropriate time, he will address the Rivers people. What you are seeing is the anger of Wike’s supporters. What we have not seen is Wike’s anger. Wike has not spoken to anyone apart from having conversations. Do you think if Atiku should come down from his high horse and meets with Wike one on one that will solve the problem in the party? First of all, let us agree that Atiku owes Governor Wike an apology. When that apology comes, it must be complete. What is at stake is beyond Wike and Atiku. What is at stake is the future of the PDP. It is whether or not PDP can rise to the occasion and get back power at the center. It is a serious business. Wike has the right to be angry. Somebody like Sule Lamido who is a man that does not talk every time has agreed that we need to talk to this man who is aggrieved. Wike has not made any public comment since this thing happened. This has opened a new fear among those who are lining up behind the presidential candidate of the party. They know that we are going into an election. They know that Rivers is among those states that produces the highest votes for the PDP. They need the support of Rivers state in many ways. I think that the reactions that we have seen means that we need to tread softly. We need to respect people. In the interest of national unity and the party, we need to do things differently. Let their sins be on their heads. But I know that the doors of reconciliation have not been closed yet. Atiku does not need to hide behind the mask. This is the time to step forth. If you say you want to be the president of Nigeria, then you should be able to take certain decisions. You should provide leadership when it is required, not to hide behind clueless committees that mean nothing. There appears to be no clear cut political ideologies in any of the political parties in Nigeria which is why politicians defect from one party to another at the slightest provocation, what is your take on this? Ideology and feelings of humans are two different things. In the time of Gen Ibrahim Babangida, our political parties were founded on the ideology of a little bit to the right and a little bit to the left. Looking at what we have right now, you will easily agree that those in the PDP are conservatives while those in the APC claim to be progressives. That is who they are. Ideologically, the evolution of that trend will take some time. It will mature when people become politically aware. Even in the United States, you see Republicans voting for Democrat and vice versa. That is element of dissatisfaction in the party. You see the Blue states turning to Red states. It happens sometimes. Our constitution recognizes the fact that if you are aggrieved by your party, you have the right to look for greener pasture elsewhere. I am confident that the future will define ideological bases for our political parties. For you to vote and believe in any political party means you agree with the ideology of such party. In 2011 Atiku had opportunity when he contested the PDP presidential primary against then President Goodluck Jonathan. He goofed. In this 2023 he has made some questionable choices that have sparked crisis in the PDP, what is your definition of the man Atiku Abubakar? Atiku was not born to rule. He was born to goof. That is why goofing has become part of his lifestyle. You must have a clear choice of what you want to do. You heard when Wike said give me power and I will stop insecurity. Give me power and I will improve the economy and so on. That is a man who has a policy and vision of what he wants to do if given the opportunity. For other people, what we heard was one Nigeria, one Nigeria. This is a man that made a tweet on a brutally murdered Christian female student and when some extremists threatened him, he withdrew the tweet. He quoted somebody when the news came out that one of the Chibok girls has become one of the best students in the world. We want a thinking and an active President, not a sectional president. I am unable to say this is the clear policy of Atiku. His choices in this last few weeks, are not surprising. You can fool men, you can’t fool God. If he fails this time, that is the end for him. He has not acted as somebody who wants to rule Nigeria. I respect Atiku but I don’t know what I think about him now. By his actions, he was not born to rule because he keeps making mistakes over and over. People are saying that he is not dependable. That is not a good sign of somebody who wants to be the President of Nigeria. I hope that the PDP will find answers to some of these things. In the meantime, we are still PDP people and we are waiting for whatever decision our leader will take, he directs, we follow.