Manchester City would be making a mistake if they pursue a move for for Paris Saint-Germain and Brazil star Neymar this summer, according to their former player Nedum Onuoha. City have already had a busy summer with Erling Haaland, Julian Alvarez, Kalvin Phillips and Stefan Ortega coming in and Raheem Sterling, Gabriel Jesus and Fernandinho going out — but that doesn’t mean that Pep Guardiola’s side aren’t being linked with a host of other names. Brighton’s Marc Cucurella is City’s prime target, with the Blues expected to step up their pursuit of the left-back if and when Oleksandr Zinchenko leaves for Arsenal. Neymar is the other player being linked with a move to the Etihad. The Brazilian star has has scored 100 goals in 144 games for PSG since arriving from Barcelona in a world record £200m deal in 2017. He has helped his side to win four Ligue 1 titles, but last season his relationship with PSG’s ultras soured after another embarrassing exit from the Champions League. New PSG manager Christophe Galtier has said he would like to have Neymar in his squad next season, but PSG are believed to be open to letting him go for the right price. City and Chelsea are the two teams most heavily linked, but Onuoha doesn’t think it is a venture City should pursue. When asked if he thought City should go after Neymar he told ESPN FC : “No. But it’s not because he’s not a good player. I think they don’t need him. “Especially if he will be playing on the left. You’ve got Jack Grealish there, Phil Foden as well. To bring someone in, who would stunt the development of those two players, it doesn’t seem to add up. “I understand he has the pedigree and all that stuff. But City are building and building, looking to sign younger [players] when they can. It’s that concept of futureproofing. Neymar is an outstanding player, but it’s not the right moment for him to go to City. He will draw a crowd in, get a ton of goals and assists. POLL “But City have this mentality where everyone is pulling in the same direction, it’s not about the tricks and skills, it’s the hard work and understanding. I don’t see it being a good move. It’s a no-go for me.”