Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo on Saturday expressed great worry over the rate at which youths of the state are going into drugs and destroying their future, saying there has been a sharp rise in drug consumption in the state in recent years. He also lamented what he termed as environmental terrorism in Ijaw land caused by the activities of operators of illegal crude refining camps across the creeks. Ewhrudjakpo disclosed that the available statistics indicated an upward swing of about five per cent in 2018 to the current 15 per cent of drug abuse in Bayelsa. A statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Doubara Atasi, quoted the deputy governor as having stated these during a courtesy visit to him by the executive committee of the Central Zone of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), led by its chairman, Doodei Week, in Government House, Yenagoa. He described the rate of substance abuse and other related crimes as alarming, adding that the incidence of drug consumption had earned the state the unenviable position of being the third highest drug abuse rating in the country. The deputy governor urged the INC and its youth wing, the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), to play a pivotal role in the fight against drug abuse and environmental terrorism in Ijaw land. He implored the two organizations to collaborate with the state Committee on Drug Abuse to sensitise the youths on the dangers posed by the menace. He charged them not to be swayed by primordial sentiments being peddled by operators of artisanal oil refineries, whose activities he noted, were doing greater damage to the Niger Delta environment than that of the International Oil Companies (IOCs). POLL Ewhrudjakpo said, “Our environment has been shattered, terrorized and almost completely destroyed. Our youths are into transactions that are doing greater damage to our environment than what the IOCs are doing. “Drug abuse is another issue I will like you, people, to join the government to tackle in our various communities. Our zone (state) has become Number 3 in the country in terms of drug consumption. The rate at which our youths are going into drugs is quite alarming. “The INC and IYC cannot afford to stand aloof or allow themselves to be compromised over the crumbs from oil bunkering and illegal crude refining merchants.” The Central Zone Chairman of the INC, Doodei Week, said that the organization was ready to partner with the government in ensuring peace, unity and stability in Bayelsa and Ijawland in general.