Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party and former Governor of Anambra State in this interview on Arise Television, speaks about his readiness to fix Nigeria with his team, reacts to former Kano state governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso’s comment that the North cannot vote for any presidential candidate from the South-East among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: The presidential candidate of New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso has said that the North will not vote for any presidential candidate from the South East, that the region has a problem and no Northerner will vote for a candidate from the region. What is your take on that? The comment by my respected elder brother Kwankwaso is the reason we have 100 million Nigerians living in poverty, the reason 18 million children are out of school and over 55 percent of Nigerians are under or unemployed. It is the reason we have all the problems, the reason Nigeria is not secured. Rather than vote for competence, we chosen to vote for incompetence based on primitive consideration of ethnicity and religion. Today you cannot travel from Abuja to Kaduna by road, by air or by rail. Is it because somebody from the South- East is in charge? You cannot travel from Abuja to Mina by road, is it because somebody from the South-East is in charge? There was an attack by bandits on the presidential convoy in Katsina, is it because somebody from the South-East is in charge? Tell me, where you have a regular supply of electricity or people are prospering in the North because a northerner is in power, or people in the south-West or the South-East are prospering. What we have consistently done in this country is to hire car drivers to fly Nigeria airplanes, as pilots. My commitment is to address the issues in this country. This country is besieged by debt issues that should preoccupy us now. We should deal with the issues. This election shouldn’t be based on my turn; it shouldn’t be based on ethnicity or religion but on the agenda of Nigeria to save this country. Nigeria is in coma, she needs a specialist to save her life or she dies, and that is what I am offering. I am appealing to people to vote to save Nigeria and to save Nigeria is to hire the best. I don’t want people to vote for me because I am from the South-East or South- South. I want people to vote for Peter Obi because I am a Nigerian and I have the competence to pull Nigeria out of the mess that it is in today. He also said that the Igbo people are on the lower ladder of Nigeria’s politics. Buba Galadima also said that it is best for the Igbo to consider the position of the Vice President. Can you elaborate on the Labour Party, NNPP talk? I wouldn’t want to discuss the Labour Party, NNPP alliance talk. Oftentimes we neglect the fact that those in the lower ladder might be the solution to our problem. Those kinds of discussions shouldn’t be on the table today because we have a problem. My candidacy is to help solve the problems. Those who are on the higher ladder brought us to where we are today so let those on the lower ladder help solve the problem. Let me take the comment of Buba Galadima, he said that I have the competency to take up the position of vice president because of my knowledge of economy. Let me also tell you that Nigeria’s problem is the economy. Why do you want somebody who has the knowledge of the problem to be the vice? He wants to use people who should be on the reserve bench to start the match. He said that I have knowledge of economy. The Nigeria problem is the economy because people don’t have jobs, they don’t have means of livelihood and so they are pushed into criminality, agitation and all the problems that we are facing today. I have the capacity to pull these people out of poverty with the team of those that I want to assemble, young smart people, who will start cutting costs to pull Nigeria out of poverty. Itwassaidthatwhenyouweregovernorof Anambra State you wanted the northerners inAnambratowearbadge, anditwasthe intervention of Rabiu Kwankwaso that made youbackout, canyoualsoreacttotrending videothatitwasyoursonwhowasseen carrying Biafran flag and standing on the Nigerian flag? They also claimed that I sponsored agitation. I have never sponsored any agitation, whether Indigenous People of Baifra (IPOB) or anyone. In 2017, I made a comment that IPOB and other agitators are as a result of leadership failure to address the critical areas of government. All the agitations are the creation of the government. I will handle all agitations through dialogue, and enthronement of proper leadership and when I finish I will deal with the criminals decisively. I have followed all the issues of agitation globally. The issue of badge and identification never happened, and throughout the period that I was governor, Kwankanso never visited me. To tell you why it is a lie, I never had a commissioner of police from the South-West or South-South, all of them are from the North. My Aide de camp is from Kano, so who will I give the order to? Will I tell them to go and deal with their brothers? People call their brothers to be their aide de camp but mine is from Kano and we remain close till today. The person in that video is not my son. My son is a professional who is preoccupied with his work. I just came back from London and I couldn’t even see my son. I stayed in New York for one week but I couldn’t see my son because he was busy doing his business. That thing happened in Germany but my son is in the United Kingdom. My son lives in the United Kingdom. I can award any amount of money for somebody to prove that it is my son. The person in that video is shorter than my son. Can you talk about your vice presidential candidate, Datti Baba-Ahmed? POLL He is the kind of person that I would like to work with, bring in younger people with fresh ideas, and not stay there to keep recycling ourselves, claiming that we have been there so long and it is our turn and all that. We want to assemble a formidable team, the kind of the team that I had in Anambra State, a team that cannot take anything, even from me as the president. I want to work with somebody who can look me in the face and say, “Mr. President you are wrong” because I don’t know everything. We need to save this country and you can only do that with a capable team. You were in Egypt and Morocco at some point to study about their power sector and a lot of people are saying, you are not prepared for the job which is why you are going to other countries now to learn from them. What is your take? If you are told that somebody is doing something well, go and learn from the person, find out what they are doing to get it right. I have been to 31 countries to learn because it is important. I was in Morocco. The population of Morocco is 36 million, her export last year was over 50 billion dollars, she didn’t export any oil. In our case, with the oil revenue included, we had only 18 billion dollars, with a population of over 200 million people. Morocco doesn’t have many natural resources; her revenue comes from manufactured goods. Morocco has the best seaport in Africa, more than twice the cargo tonnage of Nigeria ports put together. Morocco issues euro bond at 2 to 3 percent. People are skeptical of buying Nigerian bond even at 14 to 15 percent. I drove from the capital to the seaport in three and half hours. I was in Egypt, Egypt, Vietnam, India have the fastest electricity distribution and generation in the last five years. Egypt moved their power distribution from less than 20,000 megawatts in 2015 to 58,000 megawatts. Today, its power requirement is 30,000 megawatts and its generation and distribution is 58,000 megawatts. I went to the power holding company of Egypt, met the top government officials that are involved and went to Europe to meet the financiers. Here, what we see is a situation where people go into government and start giving excuses. I want to see the problem on ground and provide means to solve them. I don’t want to go there and start giving excuses. The job of a leader is to solve problems and not to give excuses. When you are hired, you are hired because the person there is not doing well and your job is to solve problems and not give excuses. In Egypt they have the same kind of agreement like our people here in Nigeria, why has it not worked here? It is because we are not serious. In Egypt they put power, security of lives and property, education and health as a national security issue, because they knew that one of the things that cause the protest in 2011 and 2012 was power. Small businesses didn’t have power so they collapsed. If you go to Egypt it will amaze you what they do with power, security, education and health. If you go to the office of the chief executive officer of power holding company of Egypt, on the wall, you will see all the power generation, distribution and utilization. The day that I visited total utilization was 27,800 megawatts and total generation was 52,000 megawatts. They have organisation over there but here we are not organized, all we do is tell stories.