YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, threatened on Tuesday that the kidnappers of a former state Commissioner for Special Projects, Mr Mike Ogiasa, would face the wrath of the law. Diri, who eventually reacted to the abduction of Ogiasa about 40 days after the incident happened, assured the people that the state government was working to ensure he regains his freedoms. A statement issued on Tuesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, said the governor spoke during the 17th State Security Council meeting held inside Government House, Yenagoa. Ogiasa, who is a cousin of former President Goodluck Jonathan, was kidnapped by an eight-member armed gang from his country home at Otuogidi in the Ogbia Local Government Area of the state on June 2, 2022. He was spotted in a viral video on Saturday wearing only shorts in a flooded shallow grave with his hands and legs tied, and his covered with black sack. In the 27 seconds video, the victim was seen appealing to family members and friends to pay the ransom demanded by his assailants in order for them to release him, lamenting that his life was more important than money. He said, “It’s my life. Is the money that is there more important than my life? You’re seeing me in the grave (pit), please do everything possible to come and release me. POLL “Any money that is available, any money that you can make, do everything possible to come and release me. Is the money more important than my life. Is the money more important than my life.” Diri, who condemned the kidnap of the former commissioner, stressed that his administration had zero tolerance for crime and criminality, and all those involved in the kidnap will not go scot-free. He cautioned youths against involvement in crime, stating that it is an ill-wind that blows no one no good. Diri urged them to seek legitimate means of making money rather that resorting to crime, stressing that the government had the capacity to deal with perpetrators. He called on the people to support the government’s efforts to secure the state by availing relevant security agencies of necessary information as government alone cannot successfully tackle insecurity. He said, “Let no youth be used to terrorize our brothers and sisters. Recently, a video clip of a kidnapped former commissioner has been in circulation. Unfortunately, people take pleasure in using it to give a negative connotation and image about our state. “The government is not sleeping on that matter. We are working on it and by God’s grace we believe and hope that the victim will come out alive. Mike Ogiasa must be released immediately. Security agents are working on it and I am sure in the end we will triumph.” At the end of the meeting, the governor handed over additional 28 Hilux vehicles to the state police command to combat crime. They were received by the Commissioner of Police, Ben Okolo. In December 2021, the governor also presented 50 patrol vehicles and 40 motorbikes to the security agencies in the state.