LAGOS – The Lagos State Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has asked persons with disabilities (PLWDS) to take advantage of the two-day window provided by the Commission to visit the various special centers for registration and data capturing for their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs). INEC has also opened eight special centres in Lagos State PLWDs for them to have seamless registration in the state. The eight designated centres include Ikorodu- Ikorodu Central LG; Badagry- Ability and Disability Centre, Ajara; Ikeja- Old Secretariat; Lagos Island- Onikan Youth Centre; Epe- Sports Recreation Centre; Idi-Araba Correctional Centre; Teslim Balogun Stadium and Oko-Baba, Ebute-Metta. At a press conference held in Alausa, Ikeja, on Friday, the INEC, in partnership with the Lagos State Office of Disabilities Affairs (LASODA), announced that the Commission has Fixed July 25 and 26 for the exercise as special equipment for the exercise have been deployed across the special centers in the five divisions of the state. Head of Desk Voter Registration and ICT at Lagos State INEC, Muyiwa Yusuf, said Lagos at present has six million, seven hundred and twenty two thousand, three hundred and ninety four PLWDs registered, while over one million PVCs are yet to be collected. Muyiwa, therefore, asked all PLWDs in the state to go to the centers on July 25th and 26th for data capturing and PVC collection, noting that the various segments of persons with disabilities have been put into consideration. He added that going by the partnership with the Lagos State government, “the two days will be well taken care of by those people so that they are well captured. “There are people who cannot thump print, INEC has biometeic machines that will capture them. For people with visual impairment, you might need someone you trust on election day. We also have provision for braille so that they can read the paper. For people with low vision like albinism, we provide magnifying glasses,” Yusuf stated. POLL While lamenting that out of over six million registrants for 2023 elections in Lagos State, over one million PVCs have not been collected, Yusuf urged the concerned persons to go to their respective local governments for collection. He also disclosed that over 75,000 PLWDs were captured in the entire country since the electoral body began the CVR exercise for the next year elections. Yusuf, therefore, said that the new window opened by the Lagos State government would have provided better opportunity to PLWDs if the exercise had been activated much earlier. Also at the event, General Manager, LASODA, Dare Dairo, said the state government has engaged INEC to provide for people with different forms of disabilities to ensure they perform their civic responsibilities during the forthcoming general elections, adding that adequate security has been put in place to protect them for successful conduct of the exercise. Dairo said PLWDs were affected by social poverty as a result of exclusion, adding that this was part of the reasons the administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu came up with the idea to get PLWDs involved. “In collaboration with INEC, we have created special centres across Lagos to get registered and revalidate their PVCs. We have designated INEC officials who are at the various centres and carried out feasibility study. It is for the PLWDs to take advantage of this window to get their PVCs for the forthcoming elections.”