The Judicial Commission of Enquiry on Land Allocation and Documentations has sought the cooperation of Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) of government, to assist it in the course of carrying out its responsibilities, towards achieving the goals of setting up the Commission. The Judicial Commission of Enquiry was recently set up by the Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun to unravel all illegal land transactions, identify all perpetrators in any discovered illegal land dealings, as well as receive and investigate general complaints from the public around land acquisition and documentation in the State. Chairman of the Commission, Justice Solomon Olugbemi (rtd), made this known during a familiarisation meeting with the Bureau of Lands and Survey, Ogun State Property and Investment Corporation (OPIC), and Ogun State Housing Corporation, at the Ministry of Justice Conference room, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, noting that the Commission was not established to witch-hunt anyone, but to find out facts and have a fair knowledge of their organograms and operational duties before the commencement of sitting. Justice Olugbemi said the Commission must familiarise itself with relevant agencies, to assist it when petitions are received, saying “as you are all Civil Servants who are efficient in your duty posts, your cooperation is needed for us to discharge our responsibilities and to bring out the reality. The Commission is not to witchhunt anybody and we are assuring you that the interaction will be a friendly one”. The Chairman of the Commission added that a public sitting would come up soon, advising aggrieved parties to send hard copies of their petitions to the Ministry of Justice Conference Room, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, while soft copies are to be forwarded to the Commission’s email address, ogunjudcomlands@gmail.com. In his contribution, Secretary of the Commission, Mr. James Olubankole Mafe said the Commission had fixed dates of visit for concerned agencies to interact with them, noting two petitions have been received so far. In the same vein, Justice Olugbemi reaffirmed that the Commission intends to keep with its terms of reference, saying the contributions of MDAs would enable the Commission to deliver at a record time. He revealed this while taking the turn of the Ministries of Housing, Physical Planning and Urban Development and Internal Revenue Service, at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, adding that the Commission is committed to effective service delivery making suggestions and recommendations that would assist the State government in all other related matters.