ABUJA – The Director, Highway Construction and Rehabilitation, Engr. Folorunsho Esan has assured the completion of Kaduna – Pambeguwa – Jos Road in Kaduna and Plateau state within the next 12 months. The Director made this known during an inspection tour on the road recently to ascertain the progress and level of work done so far by the contractor. According to a statement signed by Blessing Lere-Adams, Director of Press and Public Relations, Engr. Esan is optimistic that the rehabilitation work on the road will be completed in due cause saying he is highly satisfied with the quality and pace of work on the road. He said, “Yes, the quality of work is satisfactory, we have 35km of binder and if you don’t look properly you’d think the job is finished. We are still expecting another layer on top.18% is done currently because 35km out of 190km is 18%, which shows there is a lot of progress from the date the contract was awarded,” he said. The Director confirmed that the funding of the project is not a problem as the source of funding for the project has already been mapped out. “Everything is together, when you think of the time of completion, you’d think of the funding that is available, the funding has to match the time frame and we are trying with what we have to ensure that the project is completed within the next 12 months,” he said. Esan encouraged the contractor to continue with the pace of work and that whatever challenges they may encounter, will be attended to in good time.” They should not stop work, they should continue working. Whatever is the problem would be solved and they should just keep up the pace of work” he said. At the inspection of the road too, the Director, Highway, North West, Engr. Adebayo Taiwo said that the road has added value and economically impacted on a lot of communities along the road corridor. -Advertisement- POLL “You can see that this road cut across many states, starting from Kaduna and going towards Jos border and there is also a spur to Bauchi. So there are a lot of economic impacts. Agricultural areas are being more accessible, rural communities too are now being well connected” he said. He pointed out that the road has helped the local communities to have easy access to bigger cities like Kaduna to sell their farm produce. ” you can see that this particular location we passed now, where there is a settlement, with drainage and proper layout makes easy access to Kaduna and if they want to go to Jos too they can easily connect to move their agricultural products,” he said. While explaining the progress of work done so far, the contractor handling the project Messes Setraco Nig. Limited represented by the Project Manager, Engr. Jabir Mustapha appreciated the Ministry for the award of the contract and confirmed that funding of the project has not been a challenge. He noted that all the communities along the road are cooperating with them. He promised that the road project will be delivered on time but noted that the rainy season might reduce the pace of work but the specifications and the standard must be maintained. He thanked the Ministry for the regular release of funds. He also appreciated the nearby communities for their security support. The Engineer’s representative on-site, Engr. Eyitayo Aluko gave the project description saying that the existing road is approximately 199.50km in length. The project begins from Maraban Jos to Tudor Fulani in Plateau State border 189.9km, while the spur begins from Saminaka junction to Bauchi State border 9.6km. The road he said serves as a link road from Kaduna State and the other North-Western States to Plateau and the other North Eastern States of the country.