26 years after the International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Nigeria is still working to achieve unrestricted use of family planning, despite a variety of myths and misconceptions. This is particularly prevalent among Nigerian women between the ages of 15 and 49 who desire to use modern contraception but are dissuaded from doing so due to misconceptions based on ingrained socio-cultural notions. Numerous research on the subject has over the years concentrated on individual attitudes toward contraception; yet, false beliefs about contraception can easily propagate among groups and impede women from considering their family planning alternatives. For instance, in Nigeria, different communities have different beliefs and misconceptions. Some common at the individual and communal levels are, “People who use contraceptives end up with health problems,” “contraceptives are detrimental to women’s health,” and “contraceptives can injure your womb.” “Using current family planning methods at an early age can cause infertility and prevent one from becoming pregnant in the future,” according to another. Some argue that “using condoms can lead to a reduced sperm count,” and that “a woman cannot become pregnant shortly after birth if her menses have not returned.” There are still some misconceptions regarding how contraceptives, like as implants, dissolve inside a woman’s body. Some believe that when implants are utilized, they wander around the woman’s body from the hand to the brain, whereas the majority of women feel that family planning causes cancer. POLL “A woman cannot become pregnant soon after delivery if she is breastfeeding,” “modern family planning fails,” “traditional family planning methods are safer and more effective than modern methods,” and “women are operated on during the insertion or removal of the implant,” are among the other myths and misconceptions. Unfortunately, millions of women are still hampered or prevented from starting or continuing to utilize contemporary contraception because of harmful, difficult-to-address myths and misconceptions. The average number of births per woman was 3.0 when the Cairo conference hosted delegates from 180 nations, including Nigeria, thousands of non-governmental organisations, and activists from around the world in 1994. The conference endorsed a new approach to stabilise the population and enhance development by recognising women’s critical role. Two and a half decades later, the global fertility rate has dropped to 2.5. But, this is not true for Nigeria according to a report, which was released in commemoration of World Population Day which shows Nigeria also moved from the 10th most populous country in 1990 with 94 million people to become the sixth most populous nation in 2020 with 216 million people. Sadly, her rising population along with its fertility and birth rate is also two times higher than its death rate. As the fourth among the most fertile countries, its fertility rate put at 5.7 exceeds both the continent’s and global average Total Fertility Rate (TFR) which is 4.4 and 2.3 respectively, the PRB data further showed. Unfortunately, not every Nigerian woman of reproductive age who needs modern family planning has access to it. Indeed, surveys show that a major reason is a concern about the side effects and/or health risks of contraceptive methods. However, the surveys don’t show how many of these women are avoiding modern contraception because of myths and misconceptions about the various methods. Obviously, reaching more Nigerian women who still want to plan childbearing, but aren’t using contraception will require innovative tactics and approaches to break down the myths and misconceptions that scare them away. Similarly, there is a need to respond to the very real side effects that these methods can cause. Research shows that there is no such thing as feeling some movements in the body after implant insertion. A contraceptive implant is inserted into the upper arm inside the surface of the foreskin in the upper arm. It is a very small or short surgical procedure that takes a little time to clear after a user. If you are on injectable you need to give yourself some time before it is cleared out of your system. The female condom, or femidom, is made of polyurethane. It has a flexible ring at each end. One fixes behind the pubic bone to hold the condom in place, while the other ring stays outside the vagina. A diaphragm is a rubber, dome-shaped device that is inserted into the vagina and placed over the cervix. It fits into place behind the woman’s pubic bone and has a firm but flexible ring that helps it press against the vaginal walls. Used with spermicide, it is 88 percent effective. Used alone, it is between 77 and 83 percent effective. An intrauterine device (IUD) is a small, T-shaped device made of plastic that’s placed inside your uterus to prevent pregnancy. They provide long-lasting, reliable protection against pregnancy, and they’re reversible. There are two types of IUDs: hormonal and non-hormonal. With no proof of a connection to any disease or disorder, research has shown that birth spacing for a number of years, at least for a minimum of two years, between one pregnancy and the next, offers a number of health benefits. When it comes to building trust for the use of family planning in Nigeria, a knowledgeable service provider will make a big impact.