LAGOS – It is now possible through 1 system, Radical Clean Solutions International, the RCS system, to “cleanse” an indoor environment of all pathogens and odours, both from the air we breathe and from all surfaces we come into contact with up to an acknowledged and proven pathogen reduction of 99.9999 percent, a report said. The report which was contained in a press release signed by Stuart Elson – Head of Global Development, RCS International, which was made available to Daily Independent noted that  RCS has replicated this atmospheric phenomenon, so that now, the natural cleansing power of the Hydroxyl Radical outdoors can be experienced and work indoors. The press release partly reads, “Yesterday we had the threats from MRSA and Rotavirus – “superbugs” in a medical setting in particular; Today we face the threat, both to our health and to the disruption of our lives by Sars  Cov-2 (Covid); Tomorrow there may well be a new virus that we know nothing about…………and how have we got rid of these threats or prepared for ones to come…? Answer, we have not been able to. “If the last two years have taught us anything, it is the enhanced realization of how much we are aware of our immediate environment and how much genuinely safe spaces now matter. But it was not Covid or lockdowns that prompted RCS to launch the Hydroxyl Radical Generator systems, for that we go back in time,” it added. NASA first became aware of the effect of atmospheric Hydroxyl Radicals in the 1960s, a study by Leeds University in the UK in the 1970s demonstrated it was the Hydroxyl Radical and not Ozone (as  first thought) that cleansed our atmosphere from the threat of pathogens and toxic gases and in 1995 The Intergovernmental Panel Conference on Climate Change acknowledged this fact publicly for the first time. Elson explained, atmospherically, a Hydroxyl Radical is formed when UV light from the Sun collides with water  vapour. This coming together prompts a reaction which changes the water vapour (H2O) to OH or HO. This OH attaches itself to pathogens and eliminates them, and in doing so neutralizes any threat  in the air and on any surface. RCS has replicated this atmospheric phenomenon, so that now, the natural cleansing power of the Hydroxyl Radical outdoors can be experienced and work indoors, the Head of Global Development added. How does it work? By mimicking the natural Hydroxyl Radical process of generation. Each of our different models draws air inside the unit, once there that air enters a reaction chamber which contains several advanced  optics light sources. Inside the chamber the moisture is reduced to OH and the resultant OH (the Hydroxyl Radical) is emitted out of the unit, establishing the same level of concentration as we find naturally which is 2.6billion Hydroxyl Radicals per cubic centimetre (cm3). POLL What makes this solution so effective? To answer that, let us consider the alternatives that have been in use for decades, alternatives which  we know make very little impact but we keep using them in the absence of anything better. Einstein may well have regarded this approach as close to “Insanity” – the continued application of the same methodology in the expectation of a different outcome. Hydrogen Peroxide (Bleach) – dangerous to handle and expensive to store correctly; requires  trained personnel to dilute and administer; often used in highly diluted condition therefore infinitely less effective. Eventually all that chemical gets back into the ground or sea when washed away. Requires a room to be vacated to be applied in industrial settings. Direct UV light – UV needs 14 seconds of uninterrupted contact to achieve a reduction of 90 percent (Log 1) and have any minor effect on a pathogen, but because air circulates, this method is flawed. UV also works via “line of sight”, anything blocking the light beam casts a shadow and anything in that shadow is uncleaned/unaffected. The effectiveness of the light is greatly reduced the farther the target is from the original light source. Cannot be used whilst people are in the room. Filtration – by very definition, a “filter” attempts to trap a substance from getting through, not eliminate it. Filters clog very quickly, reducing significantly any effectiveness. But size is important here – most bacteria measure 200-350nanometers (1 nanometre = 0.01 micron); most virus measure 80 -150 nanometres. The most highly engineered filters used commonly are HEPA filters, which sit on the outside of a building in an aircon system. Average HEPA filters can only stop particles of 3 micron size (3000 nanometres); the advanced ones go down to 0.3microns (300 nanometres) so by very definition they are not capable of stopping elements as small as virus or bacteria and can do nothing to eliminate fungus/mould growth or remove foul odours from indoor spaces, the statement noted. The RCS Hydroxyl Radical Generator range is perfectly safe for humans, animals and plants – you can continue working in its vicinity; therefore the productivity of an establishment improves with its continuous usage, Elson, the Head of Global Development noted. “Consider any indoor space which, after normal use must be “cleaned” before it can be re-used. It is necessary to vacate the room, clean, wait and then re-enter…..This downtime can be hours at a time. If the RCS Hydroxyl Radical Generator were in that same space, one activity could simply follow the next therefore more can be done in the same amount of time. These benefits cover both Health and Commercial concerns – increased productivity, safer working environments, better outcomes, better environmentally,” he added in the press release.