The former Governor of Niger State, Dr Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu has expressed worry over the worsening security situation, particularly in Minna, the state capital and the seeming lack of concern by the government checking the trend. Aliyu has also asked Nigerians to save the country and the future of their children by coming out en mass to vote for candidates who feel their pains, who are familiar with the socio-economic challenges citizens have been subjected to in the past few years and who are ready and capable of solving them. Aliyu who spoke during the ‘Sallah Treat’, part of activities to mark the 2022 Eid-el-Kabir, which took place at his residence, lamented that the numerous challenges, insecurity in particular have made citizens lose confidence in government as ‘no one is safe anywhere in Nigeria’. He said, “It is worrisome that the security situation is not getting any better hence people now live in fear. No one is safe even within Minna metropolis as some hoodlums continue to inflict pains on Nigerlites and nobody is talking or tried to stop them”. Nigerians can no longer sleep with their two eyes closed because of the worsening security situation. “Believe me we all now know those who are behind Boko-Haram, Armed bandits except we don’t want to tell ourselves the truth”. Aliyu said the situation in Niger state is more pathetic as they operate unchallenged and unhindered. “The people that have continued to cause a breach of peace, do they not have parents? Is there nobody in change to call them to order and for how long do we continue to live in fear in our own country? In next year’s general election, Aliyu said he wants Nigerians and Nigerlites, in particular, to vote for a President, Governor, and National and State Assembly members who are desirous of rebuilding the badly fragmented country to restore confidence in the minds of Nigerians. While urging Nigerians to eschew peace and show love for one another irrespective of ethno-religious and tribal differences, Babangida Aliyu said, “Without peace, there will be no progress, without peace there will be no development”. “Let us come together and secure our environment. In Minna, we have continued to experience a breach of peace and I have always wondered, these people that have continued to deprive us of peace, is there no one who know their parents? Can’t they do the right thing?   Former Governor Aliyu also cautioned against money politics and its attendant consequences on citizens and the future of the country, saying “If you collect money, for four years they will continue to do the wrong and we will continue to suffer”. He said, “Vote wisely, vote for the right people who are ready to lead or serve the interest of the greater percentage of Nigerians and if we do so, as Nigerians we will have everything working for us and the future of our children and those yet unborn will also be guaranteed”. Our correspondent reports that the special Sallah treat witnessed cultural displays by the different cultural troupes from within and outside the state including; Gwape International, Kabulu Tagbegyi, Balogun Talba, Sibombo and Algaita dancing groups.