GOMBE – A community of Tangale speaking Nigerians from Gombe State living overseas, says Nigeria has failed to utilize qualified, promising and visionary leaders because of religious bias. It has therefore called on Nigerians to eschew politicians who use religion as a political tool. They gave the warning in a press release titled, “Democracy: the power in your hands”, signed by it’s General Secretary, Lamela Umaru Lakorok and sent to our correspondent in Gombe. The group said, “We all know that a leader’s religious affiliation does not translate into into leadership quality”, citing for example that, “more Muslims have died in Nigeria in the last ten years than in the previous 50 years (www.aciafrica.org).” It stated further that, “Suppose religion was the yardstick of leadership in Nigeria; how does one explain these tragic deaths of Muslims under the presidency of a Muslim? “Ironically, if Nigeria had good leadership that ensured the free exercise of religion and commerce, over 30,000 Muslims would be alive today. “It appears that the religious beliefs of the national and local leaders did not hinder the wanton killings of Muslims and Christians in Nigeria. Yet, those who are blind fail to see that it is better to have an excellent servant-leader to guarantee the conditions for their religion’s growth than a member of the faith who hinders it”, the statement added. POLL While calling on Nigerians to learn to look at other nations where leadership is about establishing a framework for peaceful commerce and the movement of citizens within the country, it warned that Nigeria cannot achieve that through religious bigotry. “Therefore, at the national level, we must think of which candidates will provide the conditions necessary for our values and for us to flourish as a people”. It stressed. The group also noted with concern that some local politicians in Gombe south are already promoting the politics of thuggery and cautioned that, “We cannot allow this to continue, respect your life and the lives of your neighbors. No politician is worth your life”. It warned. While praying for a peaceful election of leaders, it called on Nigerians to play their part by getting their PVCs and vote the right leaders during the elections. “It is (PVC) a golden ticket that guarantees your voice is heard. In a democracy, your vote is everything: the larger the number, the more difficult for corrupt leaders to suppress”. It advised.