 YENAGOA – Members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly have de­clined the screening of a commissioner-nominee for the State Local Government Service Commission, Grace Ekiotenne, who is the imme­diate past Commissioner for Transport. Ekiotenne was among a list of three nominees that Governor Douye Diri sent to the 24-member House for screening and confirmation to serve as commissioners and member at the commis­sion. The governor also forward­ed the name of one Eyororo­kumo Ben for screening and confirmation as the Executive Director, Finance and Admin­istration, Board of Internal Revenue. He was successfully screened and confirmed. But the legislators rejected the nomination of Ekiotenne over allegations bordering on disrespect for the legislature, resulting in a mild drama on the floor of the House during plenary on Thursday. The commissioner-nomi­nee, who resigned to contest the state House of Assembly primaries of the Peoples Dem­ocratic Party but failed to pick a ticket, was alleged to have undermined the powers of the Assembly. The legislators claimed that Ekiotenne on several occasions shunned members of the House Committee on Transport while in office as commissioner, thereby frus­trating their oversight func­tions at her ministry. Some of the lawmakers, who vehemently opposed her nomination, stated that she had used her alleged close­ness to former governor and Senator representing Bayelsa West in the National Assem­bly, Seriake Dickson, to intim­idate the legislators. -Advertisement- POLL They said the time had come for them to take their pound of flesh even as at­tempts by Ekiotenne, who hails from the Ekeremor Local Government Area in Bayelsa West, to seek audi­ence was rebuffed. The other two nominees, Stanley Braboke and Awipi Odudu were screened and confirmed with dispatch as commissioner-designate and member of the local govern­ment service commission respectively. However, the leadership of the legislature constituted an ad hoc committee chaired by the deputy speaker, Michael Ogbere, to look into the rea­sons why the screening of Ekiotenne was declined by the members.