‘Many people in wealth or advisory get things fundamentally wrong by offering advisory service without looking at the macro story. An adviser should always keep an eye on the macro story – what is the trend you are seeing, how can you predict the trend, what is on the horizon?’ ABIOLA ADEKOYA’s PROFILE Abiola Adekoya has worked in financial services for almost two decades. Prior to establishing Artios Capital, a personal investment advisory, she held senior management roles at leading financial services firms with global footprints such as Renaissance Capital and RMBN Stockbroking. She has provided equities brokerage services to both Nigerian and foreign institutional and high-net-worth investors. Abiola studied Economics at the University of Lagos and has an MBA from Lagos Business School. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers of Nigeria. Abiola is on the Board of Directors of the insurance company, Allianz. As a child, what did you dream of becoming? I wanted to become a doctor. In fact, I told my parents about my ambition. They were super excited. But my interest in medicine changed when I got to SS1 and I started studying biology. I attended the International School, University of Lagos. I saw enough to quickly realize I would not like to be dealing with blood. So, I went back to my parents and told them about my change of plans. They were not happy but had to accept that I was not going to be a doctor. Despite being scared off medicine, I stayed in the science class. What was the attraction to studying Economics? I wanted to study Accountancy. Over time, I observed that I like working with numbers. I have that in common with my dad. I remember that my dad and I would stay up late to work on maths problems. So, I was drawn toward studying something heavy in mathematics. I was admitted to study Insurance but later got interested in Economics which is a broader subject. So, I crossed to the Economics Department. Interestingly, I am now a director at an insurance company, Allianz Nigeria. What were your favorite subjects in Economics? POLL Econometrics, Statistics, Quantitative Analysis and any subject that involved calculations. I made As in all of them. But the micro courses were not so brilliant. Critics say that Economics has gotten too mathematical. Do you agree that we should have more historical analysis and less modelling? You cannot analyse without data. You need data to project, forecast, look at current trends and past trends. How do you want to talk about growth without data? How do you want to measure growth? What we do in the practical world is to use a simpler language. So, when I am talking to clients, I use terminologies that they would understand. I explain how market forces or demand and supply can influence risk and profitability. To what extent do you use or have you used your knowledge of Economics in your previous and current roles? I Economics all the time. As a wealth advisor and in my former roles in banking and stock broking, the premise of everything I have done is macroeconomics. If you do not get that right, anything you do is like building a house on a shaky foundation. The house will definitely collapse. For example, in banking, if I do not understand government policies that affect different sectors, and I start lending to those sectors, I am very likely to commit big blunders. This also applies to stock broking; predicting what will happen on the stock market to my clients without understanding the implications of raising or cutting the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR). You also have to really understand things like forex policy. So, there is nothing I do that I do not have to use Economics. Many people in wealth management or advisory get things fundamentally wrong by offering advisory services without looking at the macro story. An adviser should always keep an eye on the macro story – what is the trend you are seeing, how can you predict the trend, what is on the horizon? As a wealth advisor, when you talk to people, the key value you are offering is to explain trends in the economy and how they affect investments and also be able to predict these trends. You cannot offer good investment advice if you do not know the macro story. What has historically been performing well, is it equities and if so, what sectors? Is it tech, food and beverages, real estate? All these are