Ahead of the recently approved date for the deployment of the Fifth Generation network (5G) in the country, there are palpable fears among some Nigerians about the health implications of the new technology. The concerns are not unconnected with the controversies that attended the new technology during the critical period of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, during which some countries in the world engaged in violent protests over the 5G deployment moves. Investigations by Daily Independent show that some Nigerians are still worried about the health effect of the technology. According to a telecom industry stakeholder who preferred not to be named, the network operators are finding it difficult to build new base stations. The reason for the development is attributed to the belief that any new infrastructure being built for any telecom purpose has a link with 5G network services. Areas more sensitive to the acquisition of land spaces for the building and installation of base stations and masts are the urban and highbrow areas in the country. Speaking with Daily Independent, an engineer who also preferred anonymity, who builds and erects masts for telecom companies in the country, said: “It has been very difficult for network operators to get appropriate places for their infrastructure. It is easier in rural areas as they only demand for various fees and charges, some of which are not legal. But for over a year now, it is difficult to get a contract in the urban areas. “The primary reason, as I gathered, is that the elite in any of those highbrow areas always kick against any plan to build any telecom infrastructure within or around their environment. -Advertisement- POLL “The surprising thing is that after showing them all the approvals from relevant agencies of government regarding their safety and other issues, they usually resist. In some cases, they take up matters with legal action, stressing that their lives would be at risk through radiation effects of the telecom equipment.” In response to the continuous concerns by some Nigerians, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) during the parliament discussion with stakeholders recently, dispelled the fears that the 5G network had health consequences. Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity at NCC, Dr. Bako Wakil, assured the general public that there was no relevant health and safety authority that had confirmed any health hazards arising from the 5G network. Also corroborating NCC’s position at an event recently, a representative of MTN Nigeria, Mr. Chinedu Ezeigweneme, said: “We have put all plans in place. We have discussed with relevant stakeholders and I can assure you that come August 24 this year, MTN will roll out 5G services.” Despite the benefits attributed to 5G, there have been suspicious prevalent global reactions against its deployment, especially as it borders on its probable negative health effects on humans which have resulted in protests in some countries, including Nigeria, during the peak period of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. The issue became a matter of urgent national importance which brought about public hearing, especially when the World Health Organisation (WHO) is still conducting health risk assessment associated with exposure to radio frequencies generated by 5G network with results expected to be published this year. However, while speaking at the public hearing in February 2021, Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, affirmed the findings from some independent scientific reports published by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the World Health Organisation (WHO), both agencies of the United Nations (UN), which clearly indicate that there is no health risks to human lives associated with the deployment of 5G. NCC back in November 2019 approved a trial test for 5G for a period of three months and the trial was concluded and installation decommissioned. The trial, among others, was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. Relevant stakeholders including members of the security agencies were invited to participate during the trial. The main advantage of 5G networks over the previous generation networks is their ability to provide larger or wider connectivity bandwidth and low latency, which leads to faster download speeds of to 10 gigabits per second (Gbps) and will not just be used for low bandwidth Internet content such as text, images, audio and light video, but will allow the use of real time applications such as TV broadcasting, gaming, autonomous vehicles, Internet of Things (IoT), Virtual Reality (VR), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data to improve the way we live and work.