 The council for Islamic Affairs, Ekiti state has acknowledged and commended the brilliant role played by governor Kayode Fayemi during the All Progressives Congress(APC) Presidential primaries which paved the way for the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a candidate. The group equally enjoined Muslims to those who are of Voting Age and yet to register for Permanent Voters Card to go and do so within the time frame allowed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). These were contained, in a statement jointly signed by Alhaji (Dr) Hammed Afolabi Bakare,  Alhaji Mureim Alabi Jegede and Sheikh Ahmed Yusuf, the President, Secretary and PRO of the group respectively. The group charged its members to vote for candidates who will respect and protect their fundamental rights in the upcoming general elections. The Islamic body also tasked those who have registered but have yet to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (Pvc) to do so and keep them Safely. The group commend His Excellency Dr John Kayode Fayemi, the Governor of Ekiti State being A Man Of Honour And Integrity, A Christian for stepping down for Hon Ahmed Bola Tinubu, a Muslim during the presidential primary election of APC. The Statement reads “We wish to congratulate all Muslims in Ekiti state for peaceful celebration of Id-Kabir and wish all our pilgrims in the holy land for 2022 hajj operation save journey back home. POLL ” All Muslims In Ekiti State Should Go Out In Mass To Exercise Their Right In All Elections And Most Especially 0n 2023 Presidential Election And Vote For Candidates Who Will Protect And Respect Their Fundamental Human Rights As A Muslim And Be Just Fair To All Nigerians. The Person Who Can Maintain the Peaceful Co-Existence of All Nigerians And The Unity Of The Country. “We commend His Excellency Dr John Kayode Fayemi, the Governor of Ekiti State being A Man Of Honour And Integrity, A Christian for stepping down for Hon Ahmed Bola Tinubu, a Muslim during the presidential primary election of APC. “We pray that God will continue to honour him too. He would rule Ekiti Etate Successfully In Sha Allah. We wish he will continue to be Fair and Just to we Muslims in Ekiti state up to his last day in office as governor, that we Muslims will never forget to be praying for him. “We congratulate him for the peaceful conduct of the governorship election in Ekiti state that produced a responsible, reliable and homegrown capable Mr Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji as governor-elect for Ekiti state. we wish the governor-elect of Ekiti successful tenure of office. We know he is going to continue with all the good deeds of his “Oga” and is going to be just and fair to we Muslims and all citizens in Ekiti state. “We felicitate with all our Muslims in Ekiti State and all over the world in advance for the beginning of the Muslim New Year 1444 AH on 1st Muharam,1444 AH (30th July 2022). Wish them a peaceful year. May Allah bless Ekiti state and Nigeria, free from violence, injustice and kidnapping.” the group said