ISEGHE AJAYI It is a good thing to start preparing for your children financial future especially when they are young to avoid financial stress when they grow older. That is why some parents who know the importance of savings and financial prudence do not hesitate to open a bank account for their children when they are toddlers. In fact, some ensure the first monetary gifts presented to them on their naming ceremony are reserved in a bank account newly opened for that purpose. They also try as much as possible to dedicate certain amount of money every month to such savings account. Again, most parents prefer to open savings account for their children education to reduce the financial burdens usually associated with school fees. Besides, opening a bank account for your child or children offers a hint into how banks operates, and as well gives your child a place to keep allowance, birthday money and cash gifts from aunties and uncles. Likewise, it is one of the best ways to commence your children drive to financial success, aiding them to appreciate the value of money, encourages them to save, each time they are opportune, knowing full well that with time, their little savings will grow. POLL Prioritising saving over spending is a valuable life experience and opening a savings account for your child is one of the best ways to acquaint that idea at an early age. However, the following tips will assist you on things to know about savings account for children particularly if you do not have an idea; When is the Actual Time To Open A Savings account For A Child? It depends on the parents as some prefer to open bank account for their children as soon as they started given them pocket money or monthly stipend. But then, children savings accounts usually give parents joint ownership, signifying that, either the father or mother can manage the finances until the children are prepared to do so, on their own. Because of the situation, your child perhaps will not have to meet an age requirement to open an account. Rather, a simple piggy bank will probably do for most children younger than age six. However, as soon as the money starts accruing, you will really want to give it the opportunity to grow the more How do I open children savings account? There is no much variance between opening a savings account for yourself and that of your children as the same information is needed. Which savings accounts To Pick? Before you open an account for your child, it is expedient, you take some time to find out the best bank that offers good packages for children savings account. And in doing that you must watch out for the following; Is there a minimum balance requirement or monthly maintenance fees? Children should perceive saving as a good thing, securing their money and not having their money deducted because of a maintainace fee as the manner of some banks are. Is there a minimum monthly deposit? You may not desire to commit your child to a monthly deposit particularly if he or she is just learning about the habit of saving money. Additional benefits such as an ATM card: An ATM card can show your child how dealings work and how to withdraw cash without requiring your help. What about accessibility? Opening a savings account with bank that has branches for easy accessibility will be beneficial to your child as walking into a branch office is a good way to help your child become acquainted with routine bank transactions relating to his or her account. Setting Up the Account Children under the age of 18 are not legally permitted to sign documents. So, you must open the account in both of your names. When the child is of age, say 18yrs you can approach the bank to remove your name permanently. But, if our child is still a minor, you will be the one who will have control of the account in terms of making deposits and withdrawals. Charges Savings accounts often carry fees, but there are ways to go about it. What you need do to have a good knowledge about the fees it attracts, is to chat with the bank you presently use. They may allow you link this new account to your other accounts, letting you to avoid the fees or minimum-balance requirements. Else, seek out a financial institution with low or no fees. Some banks will ignore the charges provided a certain number of deposits are made to the account monthly. What about the interest? As your children grow older, learning the rudiments of banking or owning a savings account, you can always change to an account with a better interest rate since that of savings is low. Through this, they will begin to know how banks make their money, and how saving over a particular period of time can yield better earnings. Your children are also allowed to have an easy-access account for their pocket money savings, and another for saving higher amounts for their long-term future. However, the long term usually tie the money, until the child clocks 18. It is important to know that a child cannot open an adult account, but can have a children’s account. Investment Concepts It is good to have a good investment idea, apart from saving money as interest obtained on several savings accounts is low. You will possibly find the best charges by looking at a local credit union, which also often offer supplementary benefit of no fees. If you really want to invest your children savings, you can discuss with your local bank about options that might offer you with more favorable interest rates or tax advantages. Also, you can also move the funds into a more attractive investment account as they grow, allowing your child to earn more interest on his or her savings.