In this article, the different type of bets is the subject of discussion, but it is important to take note that there are somewhat inconsistent labelling of bet categories by bookmakers. It might be really frustrating to not even be able to find the correct kind of bet on the bookmaker’s website when you’re going to place a bet. The bet type can, however, simply be listed with a name unrelated to what you were looking for. This is because particular bet kinds have distinct names in various parts of the world. Someone who is unfamiliar with sports betting would find this to be pretty confusing. With a little expertise, though, you will ultimately comprehend how each bookmaker displays its odds. • Win / Moneyline / Draw No BetAlso known as straight bet, DNB or 2-way bet.This is one of the most common kinds of bets, available across several sports. It simply refers to placing a bet on a certain team to win a game, contest, or other event and is mostly called ‘’Straight win’’. Draw No BetAs in soccer, where there is a possibility of three results, a draw results in a return of your bet. Thus, “draw no bet” was coined and it can also be named as Asian handicap of 0 (AH0. 1X2One of the most common types of bet on soccer is the 1X2 bet. The three outcomes that can occur in a bet on a match between two teams are Home (1), Draw (X), and Away (2). This market is also referred to as Match Betting, Full Time Result, and Three-Way Bet. • Asian Handicap (AH)Also known as point spread, puckline (hockey), game handicap (tennis) or map handicap (e-sports)When placing a bet, the bookmaker will “handicap” one of the rivals by giving them a slight advantage. The elimination of the draw outcome is the primary justification for handicapping. (The two odds also go a little bit closer to each other, which might help balance out your variance.) POLL A draw in an Asian Handicap is referred to as a “push,” and you are given a partial or full return of your initial bet. AH0 = DNB (Draw no bet)You can also use the Asian-level handicap betting market, which shows the handicap as 0. Your money would be returned if the match ended in a draw, thereby producing the same result as a Draw No Bet. Half and quarter Asian Handicaps Due to the fact that the initial bet is divided between two handicaps, half and quarter Asian handicap is sometimes referred to as split handicap. • European Handicap (EH)Also known as 3-way handicap or 1X2 handicap European handicap is similar to a bet on the results of a 1X2 game in that it is essentially a 3-way handicap. In games where the two sides are of unequal strengths, the underdog is given a handicap in order to level the playing field. Asian handicap differs in that the EH is always an integer value. The European handicap is always of the -1, -2, -3, etc. variety rather than an Asian Handicap of -1,5 goals or -1,75 goals. A tie is possible when betting on a European Handicap, but it can only happen if the favorite team equals the goal handicap. • Over / Under (OU)Also known as Totals, Goal line.In addition to basketball and soccer, other sports also frequently feature over/under wagers. You wager on the overall sum of goals or points that will be scored in the game, regardless of which team wins. When playing tennis, you can wager on how many sets or games will be played overall before the match is over. It doesn’t matter who wins the game. Bookmakers will establish a line and provide odds based on how many goals or points they predict the final score of the game will be. Example: If you bet on more than three goals in a football game, you win if more than three goals are scored and lose if only one or two goals are scored. Your bet will be returned in the event that exactly three goals are scored. Example of a half-point over/under bet: If you placed a bet on “under 2.5 goals” and the game only has one or two goals, you win. You lose the bet if there are three or more. A half-point over/under effectively eliminates the middle option. • Double chanceYou can cover two of the three possible outcomes of a game with a double chance bet. For soccer matches, this kind of bet is frequently available. There are three possible outcomes when placing a Double Chance bet:Home or Draw (1X) – If the home team wins or the game is a draw, your bet is a winner. If the away team wins, it will lose. Draw or Away (X2) – Your bet is successful if the away team wins or a tie results. If the home team wins, you lose. Home or Away(12) – If there is a winner, whether it is the home team or the visiting team, you win. If the game is a tie, your bet is lost. • Lay betIn lay betting, a type of bet made available by betting exchanges, you bet on an event not happening. You place a bet on an event with a regular bet (also known as a back bet). By offering odds to sell a bet rather than to place it, lay betting effectively gives gamblers the possibility to fill the role of the bookmaker. Now that you are better in tune with the appropriate terms for some of the different types of bet options, you can now proceed to bet on the best sports betting and lottery platform in Nigeria – ILOT BET. ILOT BET offers the BEST ODDS across sports betting events in all your favourite leagues and teams. Log on to www.ilot.ng and enjoy the world of sports betting like never before!