LAGOS – The Apapa Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), said it collected N522.4 billion revenue between January and June 2022. It said this had a significant increase of N156 billion as against N366.5 billion collected in the same period in 2021, representing a 42.5% increase. The Command also disclosed that it recorded a boom in the exportation of non-oil commodities with about 2.5 million metric tonnes above the 540 metric tonnes in 2021. The Free on Board (FOB) value for the exported items rose from $1.6 million in the year 2021 to $138 million in 2022 from exportation of steel bars, agricultural and mineral products amongst others. The Customs Area Controller (CAC), Comptroller Malanta Ibrahim Yusuf, made the disclosure during a press briefing in Lagos. He said the Command surpassed the half year target by 20%. In the area of anti-smuggling, he disclosed that the command intercepted dangerous items, resulting in the seizure of 83 containers with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N8.3 billion for the period under review. Comptroller Malanta said: “The Command has consistently strived in its core mandates of revenue generation, prevention and suppression of smuggling, Trade facilitation, implementation of government fiscal policies as well as collaboration and cooperation with other government agencies to ensure ease of doing business in the port. -Advertisement- POLL “This feat was made possible because of our officers’ resilience in ensuring identified revenue leakages have been mitigated, while sustaining the level of compliance by the importers/stakeholders in the clearance value chain. “The Federal Government policy and export incentive schemes have played vital roles in boosting export trade in Nigeria. “Our anti-smuggling operation is guided by the Federal Government Import and Export prohibition lists, as well as other government fiscal policies as directed.” Some of the seized items include: 32 containers of processed/ unprocessed wood; five containers of unregistered pharmaceuticals; 18 containers of used clothings/shoes; 12 containers of foreign parboiled rice; seven containers of vegetable oil; three containers of tomato paste and 1x20ft container laden with 150 cartons of tramadol. According to the CAC, 21 suspects have been arrested in connection with the seizure items. He further added that a suspect has been arrested in the recent seizure of 1x20ft container of tramadol and that he is currently undergoing interrogation/investigation. The Comptroller also revealed that the command recently handed over 2x20ft containers no. SUDU 7774749 and UETU2798479 laden with 150 cartons of illicit hard drugs to the NDLEA to further strengthen existing relationship between relevant government agencies in the port.