ABUJA – The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) popularly known as “Shi’ites” has threatened to take legal action against Nigerian Army for allegedly killing one of their members, Jibril Usman Sarki during an attack on Kuje Correctional Center by terrorists where over 600 inmates were released. The sect revealed this on Saturday in Abuja in a statement signed by Dauda Nalado on behalf of the movement. The group explained that the inmates after the attack voluntarily approached some soldiers who were patrolling the town and introduced themselves as inmates and would like to return to the prison but the soldiers opened fire on them killing many of them including Jibril. The statement noted that Jibril was an inmate in Kuje prison awaiting trial before Justice Suleiman Belgore of FCT High Court for allegedly participating in Free-Zakzaky protest that took place on July 22, 2019 at Federal Secretariat, Abuja but was arrested in July, 2019 alongside 62 others. IMN said despite the assassination of Jibril more than forty ( 40 ) Free-Zakzaky protesters were being held voluntarily returned to the facility. The group added that the whereabouts of three of their members were still unknown. The sect also threatened to take necessary legal action against the Nigerian Army for the gruesome murder of Jibril and hold President Muhammadu Buhari’s regime responsible if anything untoward happens to their members that are still missing. The statement read in part: “The team of Nigerian Army that was dispatched to Kuje after the prison break which occurred on Tuesday, 5 July, 2022 attacked inmates fleeing for safety on the street of Kuje. “An eyewitness informed us that the explosion that occurred and its attendant magnitude forced hundreds of inmates to move out of the prison premises to save their lives. POLL “Consequently, Jibril Usman Sarki alongside other inmates moved out of the prison. About 2 hours after the incident, the inmates saw some vehicles of the Nigerian Army patrolling the streets of Kuje town; they decided to meet the Army and seek for protection and assistance towards the voluntary return to the prison. ” The eyewitness noted that the devastated inmates shouted that “WE ARE INMATES”; but instead of help, the Army rained bullets on them resulting in the inmates lying on the ground. The bullets injured scores and killed many including our brother Jibril Usman Sarki. After the shootings, the Army deposited the injured and corpses of those killed with the Prison Authorities. “Despite the assassination of Jibril Usman Sarki, more than 40 Free-Zakzaky protesters being held in the Custodial Centre voluntarily returned to the facility. We, therefore, wish to commend all the 40 inmates for this rare show of restraints after the jail break-even as reliable information reaching us disclosed that the whereabouts of 3 other Free-Zakzaky protesters is still unknown. “Accordingly, we condemned in strong terms the killing of brother Jibril Usman Sarki and vow to take necessary legal action against Nigerian Army. We shall also hold Buhari regime responsible for whatever happens to our brothers that are still missing. ” It may be recalled that according to the reports by numerous national dailies, 24 hours before the prison break, there is no single Army personnel in the prison which is a clear indication of compromise of the nation’s security thereby endangering the lives of hundreds of inmates. “While condemning the attack on Kuje prison, we wish to sympathize with all the victims of this unfortunate incident. We urged Nigerians to hold Buhari responsible for the great national embarrassment, which attracted nothing but a mere expression of disappointment by a supposed Commander-in-Chief.”