Interswitch Group, Africa’s leading integrated payments and digital commerce company will headline the flagship edition of the Nigeria Fintech Forum, a one-day conference to be hosted by leading event servicing company, Eventhive.ng The forum, which is billed to hold in Victoria Island, Lagos on the 3rd of August 2022, is expected to draw public and private sector stakeholders from across Nigeria’s financial services industry and will feature keynote presentations, panel discussions, breakout sessions, exhibitions, and fireside chats. The focus of this year’s edition tagged, “Building Partnership For Growth: Exploring The Intersection Of Banks, Telcos And Fintech Companies” will provide a platform for participating stakeholders to explore topics essential to growing the financial sector. These topics will include ways to deepen digital transformation, strengthen financial inclusion strategies, aligning with the regulatory environment among other key conversations targeted at positioning Nigeria’s fintech industry for further growth and development. Speaking on why the event was launched, Jamiu Ijaodola, CEO of Eventhive.ng, organizers of the event, disclosed that “the event was designed to channel the interests of industry players within Nigeria’s financial ecosystem with a keen focus on the fintech players as they are revolutionizing payments and other fintech offerings across the continent. “The event would combine conference and exhibitions, providing players with an opportunity to share their brand story and equally showcase multiple solutions that have been developed over the years.” Speaking on behalf of Interswitch Group, the headline sponsor of the event, the Managing Director for Transaction Switching and Payment Processing (Interswitch Purepay), Akeem Lawal restated Interswitch’s focus on supporting industry events such as the fintech forum, where critical issues, trends and analyses pertaining to the fintech industry are discussed. According to him, “We at Interswitch remain committed to supporting and participating at platforms that share our vision to drive greater financial inclusion and prosperity across Nigeria and indeed, Africa. -Advertisement- POLL Platforms such as this provide Interswitch and other industry players the opportunity to engage with other key stakeholders and collaborators with a view to improving our offerings to our customers.” The expected outcome of the conference and exhibition is to help industry stakeholders network, learn and map out the future of the fintech ecosystem towards implementing policies that promote growth in Nigeria and Africa at large. The event will also showcase the latest fintech solutions in the Nigerian ecosystem.