The youth wing of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, OYC, has condemned the decision of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to field a Muslim-Muslim ticket for the 2023 presidential elections. Recall that the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday in Daura, Katsina State, announced the choice of former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima as his running mate. Reacting to the development, the National President of OYC, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, in a statement on Monday, said the choice of Shettima was a grand plan to sink Nigeria, describing it as against the law of natural justice. Nnabuike also expressed concern that the Christian community would become a totally endangered specie under the Muslim-Muslim presidency, declaring Tinubu’s decision an insult to the millions of Christians in the country. The statement read, “Today, we have deemed it fit to alert Nigerians of a looming danger ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is following Bola Tinubu’s decision to opt for a Muslim-Muslim ticket, despite obvious reasons why he should not go such a route. “This is totally unacceptable and should be rejected by anyone who means well for the country,” Okwu declared.Okwu recalled that, “in 2014, Tinubu made efforts to force Muslim-Muslim ticket on Buhari, but the President resisted it by listening to the wise counsel of people like former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki. He balanced the ticket. “Fast forward to seven years after, Tinubu now desperately wants to actualize a Muslim-Muslim presidency. There is more to this than meets the eyes. The insensitivity of Tinubu and the APC leadership is dreadful and that is their downfall.“We see this as a grand conspiracy to sink Nigeria. How can anyone contemplate this arrangement in a multi ethnic and multi religious society like Nigeria? “APC should forget 2023, they have shut themselves on the foot, we can’t allow them to destroy Nigeria. They lost the opportunity to compete very well in the forthcoming election. Nigerians, Christians and Muslim brothers who mean well for the country should rise and resist it to the last, it will never fly. POLL “The country has never been this polarized and every sensitive person should have been concerned with processes that would engender national cohesion and unity but what we have seen from APC’s Tinubu is a further division of the country. “Tinubu claimed the choice is based on competence- our question to him is simple: does it mean that from the 19 Northern States there is no competent Christian? We can see the obvious falsehood in Tinubu’s claims. “No religion is more superior than the other, but this is what Tinubu is making people to believe, a situation that would throw the country into avoidable crisis.”