As the July 15 deadline for the closure of the INEC nomination portal approaches, desperate politicians are said to be running from one court to the other ostensibly to “procure” court orders to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to publish their particulars on its portal. Top on the list of these alleged forum shoppers are said to be the House of Representatives and Senatorial candidates nominees of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), some of who did not participate in or failed the party primaries but whose particulars were forwarded to INEC by their political party to fly the flag of the party. It could be recalled that the electoral body has vehemently refused to publish the credentials of individuals whose primaries fail due to diligence in accord with the electoral Act. In a recent statement clarifying its position on the issue at the weekend, the electoral umpire insisted that it will not succumb to a ploy to impugn its reputation and integrity over its refusal to publish the particulars of persons whose nominations it did not monitor. Two notorious cases cited by INEC included those of Akwa Ibom North West and Yobe North senatorial districts involving Senator Godswill Akpabio and President of Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan. However, it has since also emerged that Abia Central Senatorial district is equally facing a disputation over an attempt to substitute the alleged winner of the ticket, Hon. Sam Onuigbo Some Court papers gleaned by this reporter and which were served by the electoral body showed proof of this desperation. For instance, a nominee of the ruling party, Chief Emeka Atuma, a contender for the Abia Central senatorial seat, according to an INEC source, served the electoral umpire an order dated June 29th which was issued by a State High Court in Umunneochi, Abia State. POLL The order was signed by Benjamin Ikea, an Assistant Chief Registrar 1, and compelled INEC to publish the details of the Chief as the duly nominated candidate of the party. Interestingly, the same Chief Atuma was listed as no. 2 Plaintiff in another order in the Katsina Division of the federal high court issued by Justice Shittu Abubakar and dated July 6th. The order of the Federal High Court granted Exparte, prayed the court for an Interim Injunction restraining INEC from causing irreparable political damage to the applicants, directing INEC to receive the applicants’ documents as flagbearers of APC temporarily, pending the determination of the motion on notice. The APC and Fifteen others were listed as plaintiffs/ applicants in the suit.