The Governor of Rivers State and a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Nyesom Wike on Saturday returned to the state after spending a few days in Turkey to unwind after a hectic political moment. Wike, alongside his Abia State counterpart, Okezie Ikpeazu had on Tuesday, June 28, traveled to Turkey on a vacation and were later joined by Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde. Governor Wike was welcomed back to the state in a warm reception by the Rivers PDP amidst speculations of his defection ahead of the 2023 general elections. While he was in Turkey, there was rumour that he flew to France where he met with the APC Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. However, Tinubu’s camp later debunked the story, saying Wike never met with Asiwaju in France. Also, the Wike’s camp had said similar thing about reports of the purported meeting which went viral during the week. Wike vacation came shortly after he lost the contest for the presidential ticket of the party to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the vice presidential ticket to his Delta State counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa. He was said to have been hurt by the action of Atiku who had “ignored” him as his running mate to pick Okowa. Daily Independent gathered that while at Turkey, Wike shunned the emissaries of the party flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar, following the division that rocked the party. -Advertisement- POLL During his absence, the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom lashed out at the PDP for choosing Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as Atiku’s running mate ahead of Wike. Speaking in an interview with Arise TV on Wednesday, Governor Ortom hinted that some governors are unhappy with Atiku. “Atiku should go to him (Wike). Why won’t he ignore their calls? Is that not an insult? Wike is a pillar in the party. “Currently, Nobody in the party has contributed more for the party to move forward than Wike. If Atiku was not going to honour the decision of the committee, he should have called Wike earlier and informed him. He didn’t do that. You can’t do things anyhow and expect us to be happy,” Ortom said.