IBADAN – There was excitement in the ancient city of Oyo in Oyo State recently, when magnificent buildings housing Al-aadi Unique College was commissioned by the Spiritual Head of Shafudeen in Islam, Alhaji (Professor) Sabit Ariyo Olagoke. The college, built on a large perimeter of land has state of the heart standard sporting facilities such as table tennis, volley ball court, basketball court and modern hostel facilities. While speaking with journalists at the event, Professor Olagoke stated that there is need for the teachers, parents and the alumni association of the college to maintain the multi-million naira structures put in place by a retired principal manager of the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN), Alhaji Abdul- AAdi Olayiwola Yusuf. Professor Olagoke identified underfunding, lack of proper monitoring of the agencies activities, low or no feedback mechanism and lack of concussive environment for learning among others as the major reasons for the fall in standard of education. In his remarks, the proprietor of the school, Alhaji Yusuf stated that the citadel of learning is aimed at given back to the society and allow the less privileged to have good education and that the school is not only for Muslims students. “If it is for money I should have built the school in an eyebrow area, but I have passion to bring sound education to the grassroots because I know what I passed through before I got to this level and I thank God for that.” POLL “Therefore, I want to advise parents to cooperate with us so that together we can bring out the best in our students and I’m assuring you that we’ll continue to build on the successes you are seeing here today,” he said. The annual Olagoke Education Legacy started on the first day, while the second day began with the commissioning of Shafaudeen International zonal headquarters at Jobele area of Oyo town. During the mosque commissioning, Professor Olagoke charged religious leaders to ensure the sacredness of the houses of God and make them holy so that prayers could be promptly answered there by God. The Islamic scholar then called on religious leaders to shun religious discrimination, but keep and respect all houses of God and maintain there sacredness and take the path of righteousness. According to him, “houses of God by the grand design of Almighty Allah must operate on the axis of Dar-us -Salam, the home of peace. “Remember that the goal of religion is to promote peace and produce virtuous men and women as enshrined in the Holy Quran, chapter 33 vs 35” The two days event ended with the usual monthly Thajud, “vigil” of the group to pray for the members and the nation at large. The two day events had in attendance dignitaries from the educational sector as well as Islamic clerics.