Heritage Bank has disclosed plans to further adopt Ynspyre, a digital product to help cater and deepen support for professionals and amateurs for the creative and entertainment industry’s growth. The bank stated that in a bid to further expand its reach by connecting with more groups that align with its digital banking product vision, it has partnered Xplo-Sound owned by Laolu Gbenjo, a multi-talented recording live performing artist. Titilayomi Babaoye, Group Head, Inclusive Banking, Heritage Bank, who made the disclosure during Gbenjo’s Concert for Life gratitude celebration, explained that to help create an incentive-based ecosystem, the Bank has continued to partner with organizations like Silverbird amongst others. Babaoye said “as a forward-looking financial institution, its strength lays in the ability to spot and mould talents into great professionals.” She noted that the Ynspyre product was established to train, nurture and arm young employees with the right skills needed to fast-track development and enable talents to flourish. She further explained that the aim of Heritage Bank being at the forefront of empowering youth in the entertainment and other sectors, is to emancipate the latent entrepreneurial spirit in the teeming youths to unleash their contributions on the growth of the economy. Gbenjo, the CEO, during the Concert for Life Gratitude celebration, expressed readiness of Xplo-sound to collaborate Heritage Bank on its digital product, Ynspyre to propel the growth of creative industry, through the supporting young talented Nigerian artists. “I am aware Heritage Bank has a product for the creative industry called Ynspyre, I am happy to work with Heritage Bank to promote this product so that the young talented Nigeria artist can access it. POLL He added that besides the funding, the young artists need the Bank’s advisory Midas touch in areas like financial literacy and entertainment mentorship You begin your journey by opening an Ynspyre account via the product website: https://ynspyreng. com/#/. Select “Open an Ynspyre Savings Account” and enter your details.