The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) and First Phase Ex-Agitators of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, in separate statements on Monday, faulted threats by the Senate Public Accounts Committee to issue a bench warrant on officials of the PAP, including its Interim Administrator, Colonel Milland Dikio (retd). Chairman of the IYC, Abuja branch, Adam Marbo, said the council was surprised at the committee’s claim that the warrant was to compel Dikio to appear before it to explain an alleged N10billion unaccounted for by the amnesty office contained in the Auditor-General of the Federation’s report of 2018. Marbo said the council was further amazed that the report referred to by the committee was based on transactions that were carried out in the 2015 fiscal year. He described the posture of the Senate committee as a witch-hunt, explaining that the transactions and the audit report happened years before Dikio was appointed as the interim administrator of the programme. Marbo said, “We can recall that Dikio was appointed towards the end of 2020. What the Senate is investigating is a transaction that occurred in the amnesty office in 2015 but was mentioned in the Auditor-General’s report of 2018. “The matter does not concern Dikio at all. Why will the Senate Committee become so fixated on Dikio that it descended to the arena of desperation with the threat of a bench warrant? What are they looking for? The committee cannot feign ignorance of persons at the helm of affairs in amnesty office when the transaction took place”. The Ijaw youth leader cautioned the committee to stop distracting Dikio and allow him to concentrate and deliver his vision for PAP, insisting that the current amnesty boss should only be held accountable for his actions and inactions during his tenure. “Dikio has reformed the amnesty programme and we won’t allow any baseless attack on him. The Senate Committee should judge Dikio by his deeds in the amnesty office and not by the actions and misdeeds of others before him. We perceive any attempt to otherwise as a deliberate attempt to distract the amnesty boss and destabilise the Niger Delta,” he added. POLL Similarly, the ex-militant leaders in a statement issued by the chairman, First Phase Ex-Agitators, Henry Binidodogha aka Egbema One, and Andabafa Namah aka Opunamah,called on President Muhammadu Buhari to hold the Senate responsible should there be renewed hostilities in the Niger Delta. They said the legislators were on a mission to disrupt the existing peace in the region with their plot to destabilise the good works of Dikio and embarrass him in order to make a mess of all that he had achieved within a short period of time since he took over. The former creek warlords also said the issue listed in the probe predated the tenure of Dikio and wondered why the Senate Public Accounts Committee would be disturbing him about it. They insisted it made no sense whatsoever to compel a man to answer for an alleged offence that he knew nothing about, and urged the Senate committee to stop the sponsored media trial and invite those responsible to answer for themselves about what transpired in 2018. They said, “We know the pressure Dikio is going through because he refused to offer contracts to people who are not capable of handling such contracts. We don’t want to believe that the Senators are guilty of this. “Even with the malfeasance he met, he has not blamed anybody or accuse anyone but has been working seriously, transforming the programme and affecting positively lives of the people, particularly the PAP beneficiaries. His achievements are visible for all to see. “Dikio has said contracts can only be awarded to people who meet the expected standards, and we stand by that. Only recently, he terminated a contract because the company breached the terms and we supported him.” The ex-militant leaders said while the Senate Committee headed by Senator Matthew Urhogide had the statutory right to carry out their oversight functions, they must be careful and sincere, especially when it had to do with the Niger Delta.