ENUGU – The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has trained 200 civil servants under the employ of the Enugu State Government on emergency and disaster preparedness. Flagging off the training on Friday at the state’s secretariat, Enugu, the acting Zonal Coordinator of NEMA, Mr Thickman Tanimu, said that the training would avail the workers’ special skills and vital actions to be taken during emergency or disaster situations. The civil servants that attended the one-day training were drawn from the state’s Ministry of Lands and Urban Development; Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Environment. The training was themed: “Basic Life Support, Disaster Preparedness, Mitigation and Response at Home and Workplace for Enugu State Civil Servants”. Tanimu, who commended the workers for turning out en masse for the training, noted that all they would learn would be useful to them within and outside their service years. According to him, all you will learn and the knowledge acquired today will also be useful for and applicable to your homes as individuals. “I must commend the state government and your various ministries for giving this vital emergency and disaster preparedness training its needed priority. “I will implore you to pay attention and ask questions in all lectures, various simulations and demonstrations to be carried out here. POLL “All you learn here today would be of great benefit to you even after your service years to the state,” he said. Also, the state’s Commissioner for Lands and Urban Development, Chief Chidi Aroh, thanked NEMA Director-General, zonal coordinator and his team for the well-organised training given to civil servants in the state. Aroh, represented by the Director, Administration and Supply in the ministry, Mr Michael Ugwu, assured that civil servants would always make good use of the knowledge they acquired from the training in saving life especially during emergency. “I will also urge NEMA to come around again and make this engagement and training more frequent to assist both civil servants and everybody in the state to be emergency and disaster preparedness conscious,” he appealed.