EMMANUEL OBETA e- Commerce Marketing e- Commerce has grown to become an integral part of our global, modern economy and has transformed the way we shop, and do business. e -commerce is the short form for electronic commerce, online commerce, an umbrella term for any transaction done over the internet. It includes retail stores, and services of all types trans versing all kinds of online transactions ranging from clothes, shoes, fashion accessories to other physical goods, to services like consulting, cyber security, booking of hotels, tours, purchase of airline tickets etc. The distinguishing factor about e -commerce transactions is that all the significant stages of the transaction; product search, selection and placing of orders, payments are all carried out online while the delivery of the goods or services are done at the agreed time frame. The incorporation of an online payment system completes the loop for e commerce. e-commerce draws or relies heavily on technologies such as mobile commerce, electronic funds transfer, supply chain management, Internet marketing, online transaction processing, electronic data interchange (EDI), inventory management systems, and automated data collection systems. POLL The first e- commerce transaction in history was carried out by Dan Kohn in 1994 when he sold a Sting CD for $12.48 to his friend through his website, NetMarket, while payment was made through an encrypted credit card transaction (Wix ecommerce, 2021). This was quickly followed by Pizza Hut which launched PizzaNet in the same year where people could order and make payment for Pizza. Amazon launched its online bookselling platform in 1995 followed closely by eBay and PayPal which then culminated in the e commerce boom that we are currently experiencing. This trend continued till 2014 when $2.68 billion was made in online sales on a single Cyber Monday. 2019 was another landmark year when for the first-time online retail sales surpassed sales from brick-and-mortar businesses. According to Statista the total global e commerce sales in 2020 was $4.28 trillion and is expected to grow to $5.4 trillion by 2022. Types of e Commerce Businesses Two ways of categorising e commerce business are by the parties involved in the transactions and the types of products and services provided by the business. Using the types of parties involved to classify e commerce businesses you have Business to Business (B2B) transactions, Business to Consumer (B2C), Consumer to Consumer (C2C), Consumer to Business (C2B), Business to Government (B2G), and Government to Business (G2B). Business to Business transactions or models refer to businesses or companies that provide services to other businesses or companies and could range from haulage or transportation companies, wholesalers, raw material manufacturers, security companies and other service providers. Business to consumers on the other hand is businesses or companies that provide goods and services directly to the end consumers like retail companies. These could encompass both physical products and online services or digital products. Consumer to Consumer refer to such services and transactions carried out between two people through the facilitation of established business companies set up to render such services or facilitate such connections like e-Bay, craigslist or marketplaces on Facebook and Instagram. Consumer to Business. This is an evolving business model but incorporates such services provided by individuals to companies or businesses like freelancers, and other small service providers through platforms like Fiverr, Upwork etc. Business to Government. This model focuses on the provision of services specifically to the government entity as they also possess the ability to both purchase and provide services. Different strata of government are usually inclined to certain services that can be provided to them by different business organization like waste management, urban planning, lobbyists etc. Government to Business: the government also provides some regulatory, inspection and monitoring services to businesses as well as the collection of mandatory levies, taxes etc so government to business is a flip side of the business to government services. The second means of classifying e commerce is by the types of products and services offered by the different operators. This could be more appropriate than just describing the various operators which does not give us an idea of the types of transactions that takes place in terms of the products and services being offered. The products and services offered by e commerce ranges from physical products, services as well as digital products. There is an endless stream of services available or that are sold online ranging from hiring personnel, skills and freelancers to the streaming of movies and other subscription and rental services. Each of these services are surrounded by their own peculiarities which determines the modality of their operations. Some of these services are sold via the owner’s website, or on a dedicated platform for similar services, similar to what would have been obtainable in a physical market where similar products are sold. Businesses adopt a lot of different approaches in making their sales like offering snippets of their services via online advertising where such prospective customers are then required to opt in, subscribe, indicate their interest or contact the service providers through filling out a form, entering their email list for regular information and updates or request for product demos rather than purchasing the service upfront. Other forms or models for e commerce businesses encompasses subscriptions to those services like libraries, newspaper publications, bookstores or even streaming services like Netflix, radio and Television production companies. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com 