No fewer than 50 indigent secondary school students across the four local government areas in Akoko, Ondo State, received scholarship from a nonprofitable organization, DOW Initiative, on weekend. The conspicuously indigent students were selected from the secondary schools in the Northern Senatorial District of the state by a committee constituted by the convener of the organization, Barrister Oluwarotimi Williams-Daudu, in collaboration with the school authorities. Addressing the beneficiaries who gathered in two locations, St. Patrick’s College, Iwaro-Oka and Mount Carmel Girls’ Secondary School, Ikare-Akoko, the convener explained that the initiative was borne out of his personal experience, likewise his wife, Dr.(Mrs.) Funmilola Williams-Daudu, when they were growing up as orphans. Williams-Daudu disclosed that he was appointed the Senior Prefect of his set despite patches on his tattered school uniform and inability to afford a pair of sandals. Explaining the criteria for the scholarship, he said the beneficiary student must be brilliant and truly indigent. In accordance with the current government approved bench mark, he paid N6,500 school fee for the present academic session for each students, assuring them the fees for the next academic session would be paid as soon as they resume in September. The convener explained that the delay in payment of the fee was as a result of registration process of the organization and other required processes including opening of bank account for smooth running of the initiative. He assured the beneficiaries that the Foundation would come with their school fees, uniforms, sandals and books as they resume for a new academic session in September later in the year. POLL Speaking on the initiative, Barrister Williams-Daudu said: I have a humble beginning when getting a school uniform was difficult, when having meal as and when due was difficult thing. When I wanted to write my West African School Certificate Examination, I went in in empty stomach. Those were the experiences that culminated in this initiative(Foundation). “The 50 students will continue to benefit provided they be of good academic standing, obedient to rules and regulations of the school. Next year, we intend to bring more people of board. Dr.(Mrs.) Funmilola Williams-Daudu, wife of the convener, advised the beneficiaries to dream big  and work towards achieving their dreams. She said: “I want to tell you that there was a time I was like you. Both of us(she and her husband) lost our parents at our tender age. Your future is very bright especially now that you’re  DOW Ambassadors. “Think of your academics, be diligent, honest and hardworking. People must see that you have been transformed. Among you shall be governors, doctors, engineers.” Appreciating the gesture, Mr. Adebisi Adesina of Mount Carmel Girls’ Secondary School, described the convener as a rare gem. He commended him for the gesture particularly in the period when most people are selfish and want everything for themselves. Mrs. Olaniyan Esther, Principal, St. Patrick’s College, said the award would inspire the students to study more. She said: “For somebody to don’t his at the hard time is something that goes beyond ordinary. The students should seize the opportunity to excel.” One of the beneficiaries, Matthew Hannah of Mount Carmel Girls’ Secondary School, appreciated the convener, promising to put in more effort in her academics as challenge of payment of school fee is over.