At least six people died and 24 were wounded in a shooting at a July Fourth parade in the Chicago suburb of Highland Park, and officers are searching for a suspect who likely fired on the festivities from a rooftop, police said Monday. Highland Park Police Commander Chris O’Neill, the incident commander on scene, urged people to shelter in place as authorities search for the suspect. Hours after the shooting, with bystanders and media standing nearby, about a dozen officers suddenly dashed for a small office building half a block from where the shooting occurred — crouching at the glass doors, before flinging them open and rushing in, rifles pointed inside into a dark foyer. It was not immediately clear why the police had entered the building. Lake County Major Crime Task Force spokesman Christopher Covelli said at a news conference that the gunman apparently opened fire on parade- goers from a rooftop using a rifle that was recovered at the scene. He didn’t know which building. Covelli said police believe there was only one shooter and warned that he should still be considered armed and dangerous. He and O’Neill described the shooting as random. Police have not released any details about the victims or wounded. “This morning at 10:14, our community was terrorized by an act of violence that has shaken us to our core,” Mayor Nancy Rotering said at the news conference. “Our hearts go out to the families of the victims at this devastating time. On a day that we came together to celebrate community and freedom, we are instead mourning the tragic loss of life and struggling with the terror that was brought upon us.” Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said in a statement: “There are no words for the kind of monster who lies in wait and fires into a crowd of families with children celebrating a holiday with their community.” -Advertisement- POLL Hundreds of parade-goers — some visibly bloodied — fled the parade route after shots rang out, leaving their belongings behind. Video shot by a Sun-Times journalist after the gunfire rang out shows a band on a float continuing to play as people run past, screaming. As of early afternoon, ominous signs of ajo you seven suddenly turned to horror filled both sides of Central Street where the shooting occurred. Dozens of baby cartridges, some bearing American flags, abandoned children’s bikes, a helmet bedecked with images of Cinderella were left behind in their haste. Blankets, lawn chairs, coffees and water bottles were knocked over as based on false premise and misunderstanding of what was going on in the country. He said, “You will recall that only few months ago, Nigeria was taken out of the list of countries of particular concern because it was proven that there is no iota of truth in the allegation that Christians or any religion was being persecuted or people were not allowed to practice religion of their choice. “We want to say once again that Nigeria does not have a policy that denies people the freedom to practise their religion. “The country also does not have a policy of violation of freedom of religion and it is not true that Nigeria persecutes anybody on account of his or her faith.” Mohammed noted that the constitution of Nigeria guarantees the right of anybody to practise his or her faith without molestation and the government has always safeguarded the constitutional provision jealously. He said most commentators who were not well versed in the politics and happenings in Nigeria take criminalities and communal clashes as issues of religious persecution. “Nobody in Nigeria is being persecuted but we have issues of criminality going on and the criminals really do not make distinction of any religion. “They kidnap for money, they hold people on ransom irrespective of their religion and there are some issues of communal matters dating back to many years. “If statistics is to be taken, I can say confidently that as many Muslims as Christians have been victims of these criminals,” he said. According to the minister, the only known group that targets Christians is the Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorist group. He, however, said that the Federal Government had mounted a large-scale military operations to wipe out the criminals and it was yielding results. “What ISWAP is doing is that, because of their dwindling influence, they are now attacking Churches and Christians in order to create crisis between various religious groups. “But as a government, we are after them,” he said. The minister alleged that some NGOs were also feeding the international community with wrong information to get funds from donors. Mohammed reiterated that the two major religions in Nigeria, Islam and Christianity, were also collaborating to find solution to the crisis and bring peace and harmony. He gave the example of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council, which is working to foster unity and better understanding between the Christian and Islamic faiths. The minister solicited support from multilateral organisations and foreign countries in tackling the challenges of insecurity. people fled. Police, some in camouflage gear and many clutching ARstyle weapons, continued to pour into the area. Armed FBI agents in camouflage escorted a family with two small girls across Central Street hours after the shooting. The children looked visibly frightened even as their mother attempted to reassure them that the agents leading and flanking them would protect them. “Don’t worry, you’re safe now,” she told them. “These guys will protect you.” Highland Park Police initially said in a statement early Monday afternoon that five people had been killed and 19 people were taken to hospitals, but those numbers were revised at the news conference. Gina Troiani and her son were lined up with his daycare class ready to walk onto the parade route when she heard a loud sound that she believed was fireworks — until she heard people yell about a shooter. “We just start running in the opposite direction,” she told The Associated Press. Her 5-year-old son was riding his bike decorated with red and blue curled ribbons. He and other children in the group held small American flags. The city said on its website that the festivities were to include a children’s bike and pet parade. Troiani said she pushed her son’s bike, running through the neighborhood to get back to their car. In a video that Troiani shot on her phone, some of the kids are visibly startled at the loud noise and they scramble to the side of the road as a siren wails nearby. It was just sort of chaos,” she said. “There were people tha tgot separated from their families, looking for them. Others just dropped their wagons, grabbed their kids and started running.” Debbie Glickman, a Highland Park resident, said she was on a parade float with coworkers and the group was preparing to turn onto the main route when she saw people running from the area. “People started saying: ‘There’s a shooter, there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter,’” Glickman told the Associated Press. “So we just ran. We just ran. It’s like mass chaos down there.” She didn’t hear any noises or see anyone who appeared to be injured.