Celebrating the Eid-El Kabir festivities with the Nigerian Muslims, the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has sent his message of felicitation to all faithful even as he has urged them to comply fully with traffic laws. In the message, Oyeyemi preached love among Nigerians, peaceful coexistence and care for the less privileged members of the society. He noted that those were the virtues which people must imbibe during and after the Sallah celebrations. The FRSC chief executive also warned the Muslim Ummah against bad driving habits, reminding them of the need to obey all established rules and regulations guiding the use of roads in Nigeria. Baritone-voiced road safety chief proponent insisted that the wanton destruction of lives and property on the nation’s highways resulting from people’s impatience could be avoided if commuters play their expected role in checkmating the excesses of drivers who convey them from one destination to another. In the press release signed by the Corps Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, the FRSC Corps Marshal was quoted to have expressed satisfaction with the general conduct of the motoring public regarding compliance with road traffic regulations since the commencement of the Eid-El Kabir special patrol. He admonished the Muslims as well as the motoring community not to jettison the rules in the course of the celebration; rather, they should continue to observe the stipulated rules in order to build on the gains made by the corps so far. The FRSC Corps Marshal urged the Muslim Ummah to use the period of the celebration to offer special prayers for Allah’s blessings, wisdom and guidance. -Advertisement- POLL This is even as he restated the commitment of the FRSC to sustaining its present collaboration with other security agencies toward effective enforcement of traffic rules and regulations. Oyeyemi further reassured that Commanding Officers across the country have been given directives to be on the alert during the Sallah celebration to provide all necessary support to members of the public and to particularly attend to whatever emergencies that may arise. He called on members of the public to join the FRSC in its ongoing campaigns for a safer road environment by promptly reporting any road and other emergencies they notice to the FRSC Call Centre through the toll-free line: 122 or directly to the studio of the National Traffic Radio through the telephone lines:08052998090 or 09067000015. The Corps Marshal wished all the Muslim Faithful a peaceful celebration blended with Allah’s blessings.