LAGOS  – The Centre for The Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), has expressed displeasure over the measures the Central Bank of Nigeria have been taking to stem the continuous inflation rise in the country. CPPE in a statement made available to Daily Independent and signed by its Founder/Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Muda Yusuf, in response to the outcome of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting held by the apex bank on July 2022, said that the decision of CBN was in line with the policy tightening trend by Central Banks globally, but that it failed to reckon with domestic peculiarities. He said the key drivers of Nigeria inflation are supply side variables, not demand driven. According to Yusuf, “The previous hike in policy rate of 150 basis point in May did not have any significant impact on the inflation numbers. If anything, the general price level became even more elevated. “We recognize that the primary mandate of the CBN is price stability, but numerous headwinds had posed significant risks to this critical objective. Some of these include the surge in commodity prices and impact on energy cost, disruptive effects of insecurity on agricultural output, and global supply chain disruptions. The hike in MPR would not change these variables. “Already, bank lending has been constrained by the high CRR [many operators in the sector claim that effective Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) is as high as 50% or more for many banks], the discretionary debits by the apex bank and liquidity ratio of 30%. Lending situation in the economy is already very tight.” The Nigerian economy is not a credit driven economy, unlike what obtains in many advanced economies which have much higher levels of financial inclusion, robust consumer credit framework and strong correlation between interest rate and aggregate demand. The level of financial inclusion in the Nigerian economy is still quite low, access to credit by households and MSMEs is still very challenging, and the informal sector accounts for close to 50% of the economy. Private sector bank credit as a percentage of GDP is less than 20% in Nigeria. It is over 100% in South Africa and over 200% in the United States. This underscores the variabilities across economies; thus, policy responses have to be different.