As a rule of thumb, some asset classes in a place like the United Kingdom do better compared to the same asset classes in Nigeria. But you have to look at things a lot more carefully or holistically, says Abiola Adekoya, CEO/Founder Artios Capital. The first slot of this interview was published last Thursday. Is your typical client someone who lives in a detached house in Banana Island? My typical client is anyone who has some money and wants a better life. Offering quality advice and engaging people to know the best investment for them takes a lot of time so what I get out of it has to be commensurate with the time I put in. But my services are not for only the rich. People, friends or professional colleagues, pool funds for joint investment and come to me to guide them, thus making Artios advisory services very affordable for everyone in the group. What is the biggest or best investment you have advised someone to make that really worked for them? While I was in banking, I had a client who needed a very expensive piece of equipment which could be a game changer for his business. By all means, it was a massive sum to ask the bank. So, he did not really want to proceed. I pestered him to give me more information. I did my analysis and I was convinced that it was a very good business for the bank. I wrote a proposal and I went to see the managing director. The managing director reeled off conditions that the man must meet but I proposed an easier but equally safe way to do the deal. The MD accepted and approved the loan. My client was so shocked when I told him his loan was approved. He now runs a multi-million dollar company. What is the greater problem with credit in Nigeria- institutional hurdles to lending or staff who are not bold or smart enough to package loans that their bosses would give a nod? There are many factors. The first factor is that the system initially was not set up for accountability. Many people could get loan from several banks without paying back. This has now become more difficult with the arrival of credit bureau and the Bank Verification Number (BVN). These have made it more difficult for people to go around taking loans that they will not pay. The second thing is the operating environment. Nigeria is a tough environment for businesses. Loans often go bad not because of anything the bank or the customer has done wrong. The bulk of the money banks make is from the interest they charge on loans so a decision not to lend or make loans is a decision not to make money. No bank will make such a decision. Unfortunately, tough economic conditions in Nigeria make it difficult for businesses to make a profit from their operations and repay loans. Ideally, banks should be giving people loans to buy personal or consumer items. But the cost of chasing people to pay back this retail loans when they refuse to pay is very high for a bank. A bank would so rather give N100 million to a single corporate entity rather than break the sum into N100, 000-naira loans to 1,000 Nigerians who want loans to buy smartphones. But retail loans are also growing now because banks can check from the credit bureau who has a track record of paying back loans. With the BVN, banks are more certain about the identity of the people they are giving loans to, where they live, etc… POLL What if I am also thinking I would not want to have a poorer return in five years because of the rate of inflation and currency depreciation in Nigeria compared to someone who decided to put the 50 million naira in an investment in the UK? That will get a bit more esoteric. We have to look at the macro along with a whole range of asset classes in both countries before advising you. This is a lot more intensive but it is something I am very comfortable doing. I keenly follow economic and market developments in key global markets. I also read reports from top analysts. Many Nigerians today have the sort of anxiety or investment goal you just shared. Any wealth advisor working with high network individuals or Nigerian upper middle classes has to be really aware of what is going on in the major global markets. Some people have the view that if you invest in property in Nigeria, your return would be inferior to someone who buys in the United Kingdom, Spain or the USA because the naira keeps losing value. Do you agree with this? In Nigeria, everybody tends to look at property from the point of view of physical property i.e. houses. Land in Nigeria appreciates really well. I remember when a plot of land at places like Ibeju-Lekki and Mowe was N300, 000, now a plot of land goes for five million naira or more at Ibeju-Lekki. Land as a property class appreciates a lot faster in value than houses. As a rule of thumb, some asset classes in a place like the United Kingdom do better compared to the same asset classes in Nigeria. But you have to look at things a lot more carefully or holistically Is the property segment something you track actively? And what cities do you focus on? When it comes to property, I prefer Lagos because I live in Lagos and I understand Lagos structures. However, I am someone who does not shy away from knowledge. For example, I keep track of what is going on in the USA, I keep track of what is going on in the UK. A client might ask to know what is happening in the US market, so you have to be well equipped with information at all time. You cannot say let me go and find out. You have to know that demand has been very high in the property market in the US for the last 24 months so things are a bit overvalued. It is tapering down now. Things are moderating because of fed rates. You need to know all this. Of course, I also talk to experts in these markets to get a deeper view of things which is important to forecasting how the market may move. You cannot just say now I have money, I too need to buy a property in London or Houston. You have to know where the market is and where it is likely to go. The first part of this interview (abridged) was published last Thursday by permission of Arbiterz.