ABUJA – New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) Senatorial candidate for the FCT, Mubarak Tijjani, has urged youths to see 2023 as the opportunity to take over the leadership of the country. Tijjani, a pilot, businessman and politician said for long the youths have been deceived that they are tomorrow’s leaders, adding that he has come to open the door for youths to take over the reins of leadership. “This era is the era of youth. They have been telling us since we were children that we are the future leaders, we are leaders of tomorrow and we have never seen that tomorrow so I want to be the door opener to that tomorrow. I want to tell the youth that tomorrow they have been hearing right from nursery and primary school now. And they have to stand firm and united to beat all the tyrants that have been at the helms for so long.” He observed that NNPP remains the platform to launch the anticipated takeover, adding that the party champions the cause of Nigeria’s rebirth. “This is going to be a rebirth of Nigeria and that is why our party is called the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP).” Speaking when he visited the party’s FCT chapter, Tijjani disclosed “My greatest motivation going into this election is the people. As you all know, the Senate seat is the seat of leadership and great responsibility so when the people of FCT pushed me, I embraced their call and I hope with me being the flag bearer of the seat we will come with great changes for the people that have given me their support. By the time we get there, they will appreciate the change and impact that we will make as it has to do with great representation of the people and we have confidence that we are going to win this general election come 2023.” The candidate said strategies were in place to win elections at all levels, part of which are grassroots development which the leader of the party, Dr. Rabiu Kwankwaso champions. POLL He also said youth and women empowerment as well as girl-child education will form part of his campaign promises to the people of the FCT. Promising to transform Abuja if voted into office, the NNPP flag bearer urged eligible residents to use the opportunity of the extension of voter registration to register and obtain their permanent voter cards. This is as he urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to provide a level playing field for all political parties and their candidates participating in various elections, stressing that votes must count and the mandate of the people respected by all stakeholders in the electoral process. The estate developer acknowledged the challenges residents face, as he maintained that he was better placed to tackle them. He further expressed confidence in the chances of the party’s presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso, to win the 2023 presidential poll.