The Kigali Summit on Malaria and neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), where African leaders led global heads of state in a pledge to accelerate malaria and other NTDs fight has been hailed as a step in the right direction. The summit hosted by Paul Kagame, President of the Republic of Rwanda, featured commitments totaling more than $US 4 billion including funding from governments, international organisations, philanthropists, and private sector support to ridding Africa of the two endemic diseases. In addition, pharmaceutical companies donated 18 billion tablets for the prevention and treatment of NTDs. This was the first-ever joint malaria and NTDs summit with Heads of State hosted on the African continent. In response to the urgent threat of a resurgence in malaria and NTDs made worse by a plateauing of funding, biological challenges and the COVID-19 pandemic, following many years of progress, endemic countries delivered robust pledges at the summit. Their pledges demonstrated leadership and action to accelerate progress towards eliminating the diseases by 2030 and galvanise political will. Malaria and NTD-affected countries committed over USD 2.2 billion in domestic resources towards ending these diseases. These commitments were made in the context of both the Kigali Declaration for NTDs launched weekend and a signal of further enhanced domestic resource commitments for malaria at the forthcoming Global Fund replenishment. With endemic countries demonstrating their leadership and ownership in the fight against malaria and NTDs, now is the time for international solidarity to ensure we all work together across all partners and levels to meet the ambitious targets. -Advertisement- POLL Paul Kagame, President of the Republic of Rwanda said ensuring that all African countries to mobilise the domestic financial resources required for quality healthcare, is a priority for the African Union, and our partners. Indeed, every global leader has been urged to demonstrate their support by endorsing and committing resources to the Kigali Declaration on NTDs and mobilising at least USD 18 billion for the malaria response at the Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference in September. The Prince of Wales believes that there is global progress in the malaria campaign since 2000 even as the meeting signaled the necessary focus, and prioritisation, of funding for novel therapeutic, prophylactic, and vaccine strategies against malaria. These include the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria which reportedly distributed 188 million mosquito nets in 2020 – a 17 percent increase compared to 2019, despite Covid-19. Certainly, there is a wider hope as the world now has more valuable assets at its disposal than ever before. For example, the first WHO-approved vaccine, new nets, and modern communications tools to monitor the progress and fight against complacency. In addition, some private sector organisations have made a range of commitments including increased research funding and enhancing local manufacturing capacity ranging from BioNTech to producing new generation vaccines locally leveraging mRNA technology. Others pledged to support for regional initiatives such as GoodbyeMalaria, new safe and accessible diagnostics for NTDs. For example, snakebite envenoming and more than 18 billion tablets were donated to NTDs by nine pharmaceutical companies. Pfizer made a ground-breaking commitment to extend its antibiotic donation programme through 2030, enabling continued trachoma elimination programs in more than 19 countries globally. GSK reaffirmed its commitment to donate albendazole until the elimination of lymphatic filariasis, extend its soil-transmitted helminths (STH) donation to include pre-school children, and include a third disease on the WHO’s 2030 NTDs Roadmap, echinococcosis. GSK also committed to investing £1 billion in R&D over the next decade to get ahead of high-burden infectious diseases that disproportionately impact LMICs to ensure that no one is left behind. Novartis is investing USD 250 million to advance R&D into new treatments to combat NTDs and malaria, including USD 100 million to advance the R&D of its NTD programme, focusing on novel drug candidates for four diseases, and USD 150 million for next-generation antimalarials. The Wellcome Trust committed to delivering £80 million worth of funding towards research on snakebite envenoming treatment. Biopharmaceutical company BioNTech announced plans to deliver a highly effective vaccine based on its proprietary mRNA technology for the prevention of malaria and disease-associated mortality, with the clinical trial for the first malaria vaccine candidates to start by the end of 2022. Further support for malaria and NTDs programmes was also delivered by philanthropic foundations and funds, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Due to a funding plateau, a rising population, widespread insecticide resistance, and the most recent COVID-19 pandemic, progress against malaria and NTDs has recently slowed and even reversed in some countries. This has caused disruptions in health programmes, including crucial services and supply chains, which have made the fight against malaria more difficult. Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General, said, “Malaria has afflicted humanity for millennia, but in the past 20 years we have made huge gains, saving many lives. Those gains are now at risk. Without accelerated action, we are in danger of seeing an immediate resurgence of malaria, particularly in Africa. But we have the tools and the strategy to prevent that – and, with new tools, to start to dream of a malaria-free world.” It will take new investments, strategic partnerships between various sectors, data-driven and tailored use of current tools, as well as increased investment in disease surveillance and early warning systems, to create a healthier, safer world free of malaria and NTDs. The promises made at the Kigali Summit are anticipated to significantly help save the lives and livelihoods of billions of people worldwide at risk from diseases that can be prevented and treated.