Wisdom is the most desirable thing for a person who wants to succeed and make it in life. If a person is not wise, all the things in this world would run away from him or her. A person must be wise and out of the wisdom he or she would learn a work, or get education or riches use it in fraudulent manner. Wisdom is applied in several ways. A wise woman stays long in her matrimonial home. It is the unwise woman that is sent packing from her home. Similarly an unwise man does not experience long life with his wife and children. A wise person would know how to handle his or her parent, children, and wife and husband so that there would not be rancor, misunderstanding among the family. . Seek for wisdom for everything one does because the bible says in the book of James 1:5 – 6 “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all liberally and without reproach and it will be given to you. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for he who doubts are like a wave of the sea driven and tossed by the wind”. A would – be trader or business person need to think about the kind of trade or business he or she wants to embark on. What are the risks involved in the trade or business that could collapse the business? What are the necessary things to do in depression situation? All these require application of wisdom by the Person to handle the situation that might confront the trade or business. But what is in the mind of the prospective trader or business person is to get money and invest without consideration for all mentioned above. He or she would never if think this business or trade would bring fortune to him or her and in turn change his or her life. Even if a wise trader or business person that keeps his or her proceeds in manner that give room for people to steal the proceeds that person is not wise. It is imperative for people to apply wisdom in any situation they find themselves. Jesus Christ applied wisdom when the Pharisees asked him if it is lawful to pay taxes to Caesar. He asked them to give him a coin (Denarius). They brought it to him and asked whose image is on the coin. They told him Caesar. Then Jesus said in the book of Mark 12:17 “…And Jesus answered and said to them renders to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and to God the things that are God’s and they marveled at him”. Some people see and get money but they spend it lavishly without having reserve. A person that spends money lavishly is spending his or her life wastefully. Those that spend lavishly are those that have plenty money and reserve. Some people whenever they get money, they spend the money for women who are not their wife. These people should know that these women are obstacles to the men’s success. These women would desert the men after finishing the money lavishly, the men later became poor. There are some men I warned to stop having affair with women other than their wives but they failed to heed my warning. Now they are facing the consequence. Imagine a man had about three million naira to embark on a business venture. He started to put the required things in place for the take – off. But the purported wife advised and influenced him to sponsor her birthday and he obliged her. Now the money is finished, the Business could not take – off. He is lamenting and trying to borrow money from his friends. Be a wise person because the bible says in the book of Proverbs 29:11 “A fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man must hold back”. Brethren, do not be a fool who had money but due to lack of wisdom, he or she mismanage the money and become poor. It does not mean that some people would not be poor but when God in His infinite mercy grant you divine wisdom, knowledge and understanding. Also I implore you to pray for wisdom and I know God would grant your request because the bible says in the book of Mark 11:24 “Therefore I say to you, whatever thing you ask when you pray believe that you receive them and you will have them”