President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to reconsider their position on the prolonged strike. Buhari who made this known on Monday in Daura, Katsina, when he received some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC), legislators and political leaders at his residence expressed worry over the educational system and future development of the country. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President said the strike had already taken a toll on the psychology of parents, students and other stakeholders, throwing up many moral issues that already beg for attention.He noted that the future of the country rests on the quality of educational institutions and education, while assuring that the government understands their position, and negotiations should continue, with students in lecture halls. He said, “We hope that ASUU will sympathise with the people on the prolonged strike. Truly, enough is enough for keeping students at home. Don’t hurt the next generation for goodness sake. According to him, students from Nigerian universities will be faced with the challenge of competing with others in a highly connected and technology-driven work space, and keeping them at home only deprives them of time, skill and opportunities to be relevant on the global stage. “Colonial type education was geared towards producing workers in government. Those jobs are no longer there. Our young people should get education to prepare them for self-employment. Now education is for the sake of education. “Through technology we are much more efficient. We should encourage our children to get education, not only to look for government jobs,” he added. President Buhari said resources should be channeled more into building infrastructure and operations of the health and educational sector, not to expand the bureaucracy to create job opportunities. POLL “By this time next year, I would have made the most out of the two terms, and the remaining months I will do my best,” the President noted.