LAGOS – The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the defection of Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, one if the gubernatorial aspirants in the last primary elections as political career suicide. The party in a press statement on Thursday signed by the State Publicity Secretary, Honourable Hakeem Amode, reiterated the fact that Rhodes-Vivour enjoyed the privilege of benefiting from our party’s structure to contest for senatorial elections when he joined the party from the KOWA party, stressing that his resolve to contest for the gubernatorial seat on the party’s platform was based on his belief that the party has the capacity to win the governorship election. The statement reads in part, “It is our party’s wish that MR Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour would realise that moving from a solid party like PDP to a yet fickled opposition party like Labour Party is political suicide and a limitation to the experience and knowledge of his person in politics. “The fact that our party, the PDP remains a very solid political party in Lagos state with an adequately maintained structure, spread and capable people to unseat the ruling All Progressives  Congress (APC) and give the Lagos people the succour and the dividends of democratic governance they have yearned for over the years. The party noted that a party like PDP with such capacity would not be deterred when an aspirant who has enjoyed the benefits of the party’s establishment to contest for previous elections despite accommodating him decides to leave the party. According to the party, the purported news of Rhodes-Vivour joining the Labour Party is one news the party is not very happy with and the leadership of the party is disappointed with such a decision. “The National Reconciliation Committee of the party is making every effort to address all aggrieved aspirants during the last primaries of the party and work is currently going on to address all aggrieved persons and groups and this is something Mr Rhodes- Vivour cannot claim not to be aware. “Our Party is making all efforts to ensure that we support our candidate, Dr. AbdulAzeez Olajide Adediran to emerge the Lagos State governor come 2023 and provide an alternative for the people of the state and ensure they are liberated from the current jugular which the current APC holds them,” the statement noted. POLL While wishing Rhodes-Vivour well in his new party, the party noted that it considers the cross-carpeting as selfish and not in the interest of the people which the party stands for.