Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, a former House of Representatives member, is the Convener of Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA’23). In this interview with select journalists, he speaks on the chances of the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, threats by opposition parties and other issues. TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI brings the excerpts: SWAGA was at the vanguard of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s quest for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket. After getting the ticket, what next? SWAGA, of which I am the convener, started about four years ago, immediately the president was sworn in. As a student of politics, we realised the need to start early. That’s why SWAGA is a political movement. We started very early. I had to go round the country to look for like minds, to look for those who believe in Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Thank God, at the end of the day, we were able to convene ourselves. We called on Senator Dayo Adeyeye to be our leader, having looked at his profile. Right now, we have finished a phase. What is the phase about? He has emerged as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). We are going into the next phase; the most important phase. This is highly important. We are beginning a sensitisation programme on PVC collection. I am happy about the way the INEC chairman said they are going to extend the registration for PVC deadline. We are going to the nooks and crannies of this country to make sure that anybody above the age of 18 gets his or her PVC. Without collecting your PVC, you won’t have the right to vote. Without your PVC, you don’t have the right to complain, you don’t have the right to change. Democracy is about people. The people must come out to cast their votes. SWAGA has started its door-to-door campaign, telling people, first of all, to go and get their PVC. Once you pick your PVC, you will now be able to come out to vote. SWAGA is about Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. But, a lot of sensitisation still needs to be done. Considering the literacy level, the sensitisation is very important. The literacy level is still low, less than 50 percent. So, we are using the door-to-door campaign to sensitise people to register, collect their PVCs and cast their votes. So, it is ‘Operation Collect your PVC’ for now. What are the issues that are likely to shape the 2023 presidential election? The candidacy matters a lot. Past records of candidates matter a lot. In the country, we are facing challenges. We cannot deny that. There are challenges. Inflation. You know where dollar is now, what the economy is talking about. There is a bit of religious crisis. You know the issues of banditry, terrorism. You need somebody who can tackle all these. It is not that the present government is not doing all these. They are doing it. More can be done. The candidate understands these issues. It cannot be done by one person. Nigeria is a country of close to 200 million. So, you need somebody that really understands the length and breadth of this country and the crises. The APC government met some deficits on ground. I am not talking about financial deficit. I am talking about security deficit, economic deficit. At least, dollar to naira was not zero, or one to a naira. When a government comes in, and with the technology in place, you cannot compare what happened in 2015 to what is happening now. POLL So, Nigeria should expect a candidate that has the track record, that has what it takes to move the country forward to a greater height. That is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Some people are saying that these problems have persisted under successive governments. How can they be addressed, if Asiwaju is voted as president? These problems have been existing for long; religious, ethnic, economic, infrastructural, electricity. But it is not only about Asiwaju alone. It is about getting the right people by Asiwaju to do it. The man is never in a rush to do something. He will pick the right set of people to do the right job and have result within a short period. He has done it in Lagos. He can replicate the same thing anywhere. He knows what everybody is capable of doing. Asiwaju will not put a financial expert to go and be a security intelligence officer. Asiwaju will put people in the right place and at the right time. So, what we are praying for, first of all, is for him to emerge. When he emerges, this will be the question: what team are you putting together? He has a lot of blueprint on his head. He has been preparing for this job. So, his blueprint is on ground. Once he enters into power, he kick-starts immediately. He is not someone that gets to power and he starts planning. No. With the problems on ground in Nigeria now, the country needs a leader who has the solution. To be honest, he is not going to achieve it in one day. But, getting the tight set of people to do the right job will really make things work. You cannot solve all the problems. But, I assure you that Asiwaju will solve a lot of problems on ground. There will be changes. There are a lot of challenges and people are wondering why APC should retain power when it has not resolved them. So, what are the chances for Asiwaju? The chances are high. There are challenges too. At the primary, less than 3,000 people voted. We are talking about an election where millions of people will be casting their votes. You have to look at areas where these votes lie, if you want to govern Nigeria because some regions have more votes than other regions. Well, is he accepted in places like Kano? Is he accepted in places like Sokoto? Accepted in places like Borno and others? The Southsouth region? The Southeast region? Even, in Adamawa? Asiwaju is a nationalist. He is a national figure. That’s why his chance of winning is very high. The Southwest is a no-go area. It is a closed door issue. Ten, 12 million votes will be delivered. That is why the door-to-door campaign will be sustained. We are talking to our people to pick up their PVCs to make sure they go and vote. You are sure Lagos will deliver five million plus. Take Lagos, take Kano. We are sure we will win Rivers because there is post-primary reconciliation going on to resolve some of these political differences. In Rivers, there is a peace process going on between Amaechi and Magnus Abe. In other states, like Jigawa, you could see the governor also talking to some people. In Ekiti, in the recent election, SWAGA had to work with Governor Fayemi to deliver Biodun Oyebanji. The vote was massive. There is conflict resolution going on in Osun right now. After primary, there will be crisis. You cannot run away from that. There must be a winner, there must be a loser. You have to pacify both parties. It should not be winners-take-all. That’s what is going on now, conflict resolution. We still have about six months to the election. Government is a big area. If you don’t become something today, you can tomorrow. If you don’t become a governor, you can become a minister, ambassador. Some of us have been in government for seven years. But, we are still relevant in government. We are also called upon to contribute. One person has to emerge in a contest. In a football competition, Premier League, one team has to emerge. The conflict resolution going on in the APC will help a lot. So, APC is not threatened by the presidential ambition of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar? Well, I will be honest with you. If we say we are not threatened by the presidential ambition of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, I am not being honest. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is an old horse, who has been in this game for long. That’s why it is being said in APC that the only match for Atiku Abubakar is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is not a small fry, being a vice president before and has been in the race for three or four times. So, he is not a push over. We have never said anybody is a push over. We need to work and work, just the same way we did in SWAGA; working for the presidential primary. We knew the vice president came out. We kept working. Governor Rotimi Amaechi came out, we kept working. We worked the last day. That was what our principal told us; don’t underrate anybody. You cannot underrate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. But, we know that with hardwork and the product we have on our hand, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, we will definitely come out victorious at the end of the day.