Tottenham Hotspur have reportedly been offered the chance to sign Barcelona attacker Memphis Depay this summer.Dean Jones has told GiveMeSport that Tottenham Hotspur have been offered the opportunity to sign Memphis Depay from Barcelona. The Dutch international has been deemed surplus to requirements at Camp Nou, and the Catalan giants are eager to sell him this summer. Memphis Depay joined Barcelona last summer on a free transfer following the expiration of his contract with Lyon. He enjoyed a great start to life in Catalonia but slowed down as the season progressed. The January arrivals of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Ferran Torres pushed him down the pecking order. He finished the 2021/22 season with 13 goals and two assists across competitions, but his game time could reduce further in the upcoming season, even though he was Barcelona’s top scorer last term. Barcelona have signed Robert Lewandowski from Bayern Munich and Raphinha from Leeds United, while Ousmane Dembele has signed a new contract with the club as well. With ample attacking options at manager Xavi Hernandez’s disposal, Barcelona are eager to part ways with Memphis to raise funds to register new signings. They have slapped a €20 million price tag on the former Manchester United attacker with a year remaining on his contract. However, according to recent reports, Spurs are only willing to pay €17 million for the 28-year-old. Memphis, too, could be inclined towards an exit as he is aware his game-time would take a hit next season. However, some reports claim he is not interested in moving to Tottenham. Journalist Dean Jones has now claimed that the Barcelona attacker has been offered to Tottenham. But he would be a ‘luxury signing’ as the north Londoners have already signed Richarlison from Everton this summer. Jones told GiveMeSport, “He definitely would be a luxury signing, he fits that bill. I don’t really see this as a good fit, I think it’s a bit too risky. He’s been offered to them; I know that much. But I don’t think they need him to be honest.” Tottenham have made six signings so far this season in Ivan Perisic, Fraser Forster, Yves Bissouma, Clement Lenglet, Richarlison and Djed Spence. It will be interesting to see if Depay arrives from Barcelona as their seventh summer arrival.