According to El Chiringuito TV, Barcelona are inching closer to the signing of Chelsea and Spain defender Cesar Azpilicueta. The 32-year-old is likely to cost the Catalan giants around €3 million in transfer fees. Azpilicueta has attained legendary status at Chelsea after his brilliant service for the west London club over the past decade. Having joined the club for a bargain fee from Marseille in 2012, the versatile defender has been an exceptional performer for the Blues, fulfilling various roles across the backline and leading the team by example. Named club captain after the departure of Gary Cahill, Azpilicueta led Chelsea to the UEFA Champions League triumph in 2020/21 and also captained the team to UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup success last season. Having won every possible trophy with the Londoners, the Spanish international is seeking a new challenge this summer. While Azpilicueta’s contract would have expired this summer, a one-year extension clause was unilaterally triggered by Chelsea after he made a certain number of appearances last season. With his deal now valid until 2023, the Spaniard cannot leave the Blues as a free agent. Barcelona, who had been planning to sign Azpilicueta on a Bosman deal, have since been forced to negotiate a fee with Chelsea for the transfer. And while it seemed for a while that the deal might stall, a breakthrough has been achieved over the past couple of days. Indeed, Chelsea’s new owners had flown to Barcelona on Thursday night to discuss the transfers of multiple players, including Azpilicueta. And as per El Chiringuito TV, a deal is now on the verge of completion, with the Blues likely to part ways with their skipper for a transfer fee of around €3 million. If true, it promises to be shrewd business from Barcelona. Azpilicueta might not be the most enticing name on the market, but the 32-year-old offers solidity, doggedness, reliability and leadership to the table. He would add depth to the right-back department at Camp Nou following the exit of Dani Alves and the impending departure of Oscar Mingueza. Personal terms over a two-year contract have already been agreed upon between Barcelona and Azpilicueta. With the matters of a transfer fee also seemingly resolved with Chelsea, a switch to Spain could be imminent for the 32-year-old.