Harry Kane and Heung-min Son once again proved the difference-makers for Tottenham during an entertaining 1-1 draw with Sevilla in Suwon. The best action of the first-half came when Richarlison looked to tee up Ryan Sessegnon, playing the ball across the face of goal but just out of the reach of his teammate. Not quite the same as Paul Gascogine’s infamous moment at Euro 1996, although perhaps an indication of the kind of interplay we’ll see at Spurs during Conte’s first full season in charge. Kane also had a goal ruled after some quick-passing from him and Son forced Sevilla to drop back and allow the England captain a shot at goal, although Kane had strayed from an offside position. Sevilla’s best chances of the first-half came as Erik Lamela grew into the game. It was the Argentine, a cult-hero in north London, who drove at the Spurs defence, forcing them deeper and deeper. Lamela would later shoot just wide, the Spanish outfit’s best chance until Pierre Emile-Hojbjerg’s awful back-pass allowed Rafa Mir in, although teammate Eric Dier did well to force him to shoot wide by putting the pressure on. Four minutes after the break, Son teed up Kane for the opener. Racing through on goal, the South Korea international displayed some excellent close control and fed the England captain just before losing the ball, with Kane slotting home from just off the penalty spot. Ivan Rakitic would level the scores 15 minutes later by adding to his fine goal against Spurs in the 2018 Champions League group stage for Barcelona. While not quite as important, the strike from outside the box was just as beautiful. POLL Clearly, it’s difficult to take too many definitive judgements from a pre-season friendly, though this was as competitive a test as Conte could have hoped for. Crunching tackles, last-ditch defending and even some on-field arguments between the teams, Spurs had to get up to speed quickly. It’s also worth taking into account none of Yves Bissouma, Ivan Perisic or Clement Lenglet have played for this team yet, while a deal for Djed Spence is close to completion. As far as pre-season friendlies go, this was one of the more entertaining enounters.