The Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas, (NLNG), Limited is working on a plant expansion plan, which will lead to establishment of Train 8, Managing Director of the company, Phillip Mshelbila has said. Mshelbila confirmed that the company has commenced plans to float Train 8, which will be different from the previous ones as the new Train 8 will not only address the issue of increased capacity but, will lay emphasis on the reduction of carbon emissions. This is coming as the NLNG advanced on the construction of Train 7 project, projected for completion in four years. Mshelbila, who was represented by NLNG General Manager, Production, Leye Falade at a panel session, titled: ‘Strategies for Confronting Energy Transition,’ said that the company also lay emphasis on the value it gets in keeping the environment clean not only on the huge taxes and dividend it gives to the government and shareholders. According to him, when the company started with providing Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) into the Nigeria Market, it started with 50,000 tons and progressively the company has moved into the Nigerian market about 400,000 tons last year and now has the target to push into the domestic market about 500,000 tons. These efforts, he said, are to reduce deforestation, reduce emissions by providing cleaner fuel as well as save lives. Mrs. Sophia Horsfall, Manager, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, NLNG, said the supply of 100 percent of its Liquefied Petroleum Gas production (Propane and Butane) to the Nigerian market had made a positive impact. She said the move, which was approved by the company’s Board of Directors, had led to the reduction in the prices of LPG, also known as cooking gas, across the country. POLL Horsfall said prioritising the domestic market would help to deepen gas utilisation in Nigeria in line with the Federal Government’s declaration of years 2021 to 2030 as the Decade of Gas. She noted that NLNG was currently the highest single supplier of LPG into the domestic market, with an estimated 400,000 metric tonnes supplied in 2021. Horsfall said the NLNG Train 7 project would also deepen gas utilization in the country. She said the Train 7 project was expected to ramp up NLNG’s production capacity by 35 percent from 22 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA) to around 30 MTPA.