Winner has emerged in the 13th season of Nigeria’s top hip-hop competition show, MTV Base Cypher. MTV Base Cypher Season 13 winner, Hayzee, won the N1 million cash prize. Sponsored by candy brand TomTom, Hayzee earned a cash prize of N1 million after competitions from 31 other rappers spanning Nigeria’s six geo-political zones. In the finale were the following contestants—Flexbizzle,Hayzee, Kingrexxie, Fozter, Baron Jay, Emortal, Apex, Diyo Matalo, and Spydermanne, who displayed their lyrical prowess. Fozter emerged second runner up while Baron Jay was the first runner up. Cadbury’s Category Lead (Gum and Candy) in West Africa, Morolake Emokpaire, said: “The quality of the performances we saw from the contestants and the reception of the public to the unique challenges executed through the season highlights the essence of our “Breathe for it” campaign, which is to inspire, focus and build clarity in the pursuit of excellence through their various touch points. In like manner with the MTV Base Cypher, we will continue to seek out innovative avenues to connect with various expressions of individual talents.’’ On why Hayzee won, his mentor, Reminisce, said: “Hayzee’s lyrics, technical ability, and everything else was a consistent 80, 85, 90. He topped the chart on all levels. POLL “It was truly a well-deserved win.” Hayzee added: “I want to say a big thank you to MTV Base and TomTom for this big opportunity to not only learn, but also showcase my talents to the world. “I also recognise the effort of Reminisce, Tobi Shang, DJ Embassy, Rooboy and all who made my efforts shine through. To the finalists, congratulations.” Bada Akintunde-Johnson, Country Manager, Paramount Africa, noted: “With the argument building around Nigeria’s dying HipHop culture, platforms like the MTV Base Cypher offer a unique opportunity to identify young budding talent, battle test them and showcase their potential to the world. “We hope the contestants in this ‘Freshman Class’ take their experience to heart and use this as a stepping stone to be excellent artistes in the years to come.”