“When people complain that the system is under-funded, we under­stand the system is under-funded, but there is so much money lying in the ETF (now TETFUND) that a lot of beneficiaries are not able to access in billions. This is mainly because the beneficiaries are not able to account for what they have collected earlier as a basis for accessing subsequent allocations.” — Prof Mahmood Yakubu in 2009 The power tussle between the Federal Government and Ac­ademic Staff Union of Uni­versities has now attained a denouement. It is either President Muhammadu Buhari hands over power to ASUU or proves that he is the one popularly elected to govern this country. The FG has pandered enough to the wimps and caprices of ASUU. How can only one union hold the entire country to ransom every now and then? How can one union always demand salary pay­ment for embarking on a strike for many months and get paid by the government? How can ASUU obtain agreements under threats of strike and during actual strikes and insist the government must honour such agreements – agreements obtained under pressure, against the grain of labour relations? It is high time the Federal Government repudiated all the so-called medley of agreements under nebulous titles. Government needs to end the menace by ASUU, who prefers to earn salaries for not working and look the other way as government’s funds into varsities are largely mismanaged. Our students have suffered enough, spending six to eight years for a four-year course. ASUU cannot continue to have its cake and eat it. ASUU is very much aware of Section 43 of Trade Dispute Act, which provides that: “(1) Notwithstanding anything con­tained in this Act or in any other law – (a) where any worker takes part in a strike, he shall not be entitled to any wages or other remuneration for the period of the strike, and any such period shall not count for the purpose of reckoning the period of continuous employment and all rights dependent on continuity of employment shall be prejudicially affected accordingly.” How can the union who portrays itself a saint always asking for salaries for the period of strike in contraven­tion of the provision of the law? Can an MoU or MoA with the government at the end of every strike asking for payment of salaries withheld during the strike override a statute like s.43 of Trade Dispute Act? Buhari can break the law of the land when it is in the interest of ASUU! The same union will parrot adherence to federal principles. However, when it comes to ASUU’s interest, federalism should be discarded and state universities who have no issues with their employers are corralled into joining an industri­al dispute with a central government! What is the business of state universi­ties with IPPS? From news reports in the papers, it is good a couple of state universities like LASU, UNIOSUN and DELSU are not on strike. If other governors are alive to their responsi­bilities, their universities should not have been shut for months. ASUU has overplayed its hand and has lost public confidence. Now, parents want their wards to complete their education within a stipulated time even though they understand the challenges confronting the education sector – indeed all the sectors of the economy. Besides, it is widely acknowl­edged that a large chunk of what stu­dents are taught has no utilitarian or practical applications outside the varsity system. So, parents are more or less concerned about having their children complete their education in a record time and move to work places to begin the second level of their edu­cation. This much Nigerian employers of labour will confirm. Perhaps, a question should be posed in passing. If the inability of an engineering graduate to read cor­rectly measurements on a vernier caliper or micrometer screw gauge can be attributed, plausibly, to inade­quate facilities, how do we explain a situation where a university graduate of English and related disciplines can hardly write an application letter let alone produce an essay that will not make Shakespeare turn in his grave or where a Political Science graduate does not know the meaning of plebi­scite? Is this the problem of infrastruc­ture or lecturers themselves? And if our dons insist it’s the problem of in­frastructure, how come such students graduate with outstanding grades? It is always easy for ASUU to see the speck in government’s eye while ignoring the massive log in its own eye. There are innumerable proven cases where a lecturer would declare to a stu­dent that ‘you will not graduate’ and the student would not graduate until the gods of the lecturer are appeased. Such is the enormous power public varsity lecturers now wield over their students, which makes one wonder whether Nigerian varsities are not actually concentration camps. -Advertisement- POLL Is there any reasonable parent that will support a union that has made industrial action a pastime? The sta­tistics is mind-boggling. You can only count one consecutive two years in nearly 30 years that ASUU did not go on strike. Yet, they got salaries ei­ther during or accumulated salaries after every industrial action. In effect, ASUU does not lose anything for going on strike. In 1994, the union went on strike for six months. In 1995, it was five months. It downed tools for seven months in 1996. It was five months in 1998. In 1999, ASUU embarked on strike for five months. In 2001, the union stayed at home for three months! In 2002, the union members were at home for two weeks. In 2003, ASUU mem­bers downed tools for a whopping six months. The union was on strike for two weeks in 2005, one week in 2006 and three months in 2007. The aberration of getting paid for sleeping at home continued in 2008 (one week), 2009 (four months), 2010 (five months) and 2011 (two months)! The intensity of industrial action by ASUU picked up again in 2013. The union embarked on strike for five and a half months and still received salaries from the government! There were other strikes between 2013 and 2020 when it capped its “distinguished career” with an unprecedented indus­trial action that lasted nine months. And government, which now appears helpless, still paid the academics, which a commentator describes as strike-salaries. ASUU is yet on anoth­er round of industrial action – five months in 2022 and still counting. Yet, they receive salaries or hope to get accumulated salaries, as usual, after calling off the strike. What manner of a nation is Nigeria that condones such impunity! As reported in Daily Trust (24/12/2020) a former Vice Chancel­lor of the University of Ibadan, Prof Isaq Adewole, “warned the federal government against paying lecturers for the nine months that they did not work, saying that would encourage more strikes in the future.” Lately, a few other conscientious university lec­turers have accused their colleagues of short-changing the system. While academics in public univer­sities are receiving salaries for not working, their counterparts in private universities only collect salaries with a proof work. The government must be held responsible for violating the law of the land on industrial action. Just because it wants children to remain in school, it continues to pander to the whims and caprices of ASUU rather than apply the law, as it does with others. This is a proof of ineptitude, complicit and dereliction of duties on the part of government agencies concerned. At any rate, the government ‘kind gesture’ has produced negative results, in which government has been made to look stupid, castrated and incapa­ble of exerting its authority over its own workers. It is time to apply the sledgehammer. Government should go to court to recover all past salary payments made to ASUU members during strikes; such salaries were clearly illegal. Time does not run against the state. Our students should no longer be used as cannon fodders. No lecturer is forced to remain in the university system. There is mo­bility of labour. If the system does not satisfy you, you’re free to move elsewhere rather than hold the entire nation to ransom every now and then. But you can’t have your cake and eat it. It’s time ASUU stopped ripping off the nation. If you don’t work, you cannot receive salaries. And stop the deceit, the sophistry of doing com­munity service and research while in bed, which at any rate or at best are for your own personal career devel­opment! Our students deserve to be in school and not be made to waste away at home and become a danger to the society through idleness. Many of them have paid house rents, which are not refundable and keep growing in age while remaining in the same class. The overwhelming majority of parents, in their millions, who are not ASUU members, lose in both ways. We may wish to recall that at the end of the 2020 prolonged strike, the ex-President of ASUU, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, declared before a bewil­dered nation that “…our members are not tired of withdrawing their services”! Why not? When you’re sure of collecting salaries for not working! Other unions in the education sector and other sectors of the econ­omy, including conservative unions of doctors, nurses, judiciary work­ers, etc. now follow in the footsteps of ASUU. This has been the pattern since 90s when ASUU turned strike into a weapon for negotiating salary increment. ASUU usually claims that government officials have their wards abroad and that this is the reason why they treat the education sector with disdain. But I know many of my pre­vious colleagues in ASUU that equal­ly have their children abroad and in private schools in Nigeria. Even when the system was better in the 60s, 70s and 80s, and we got virtually what we wanted as lecturers, many politicians still sent their children abroad for ter­tiary education. Anytime ASUU is embarking on a strike for purposes of pocket enhance­ment, it usually pushes to public do­main ‘rot in the education sector’. If government were to sit every month to negotiate salaries with ASUU, NASU, SSANU, NAAT, all in the universities, and then move to polytechnics to con­duct the same negotiations with the different workers’ unions, then to col­leges of education, down to primary schools, I suppose there will be no time for any other business for government. ASUU should stop gaslighting Nigeri­ans. Our students are the victims; they deserve to return to school. lDr Akpenvwe writes from Kubwa, Abuja