LANRE AMINU “The care of human life and happiness, not their destruction is the first and only legitimate object of good government”- Thomas Jefferson said. Another philosopher, Thomas Paine probably has some of Oyetola’s predecessors in office and challengers in the July 16 governorship race in mind, when he submitted, “The trade of governing has always been monopolized by the most ignorant and rascally individual of mankind”. Before choosing out of all the aspirants challenging the incumbent governor, Oyetola who is also seeking re-election, what we must bear in mind is that we are free to make a choice, but we are not free from the consequences of the choice we make, which will either make, hunt or mar us for the next four years. The financial recklessness and sheer impunity of past governments have played a huge part in the economic challenges the state is currently battling. It is on record that many ordinary citizens of Osun state died of starvation under a past government’s watch. Oyetola’s sterling performance in the last three and half years is a dream come true for the long-suffering people of Osun State for finally getting a governor who appeared resolute in his resolve to ensure that the hapless citizens of the state who have been saddled with the unsavoury burden of successive inept leaders heave a sigh of relief. In the light of the foregoing, the call to save our state has become louder, clearer and unambiguous. Once bitten, twice shy. A Yoruba adage says, “Ina esisi ko gbodo jo eniyan lekeji. If we repeat the same mistake of voting in another inept, clueless and inexperienced governor, the entire world will see us as unserious. World acclaimed authority on leadership, John Maxwell, in his book: ‘The Right to Lead’, asks the question: What gives a man or a woman the right to lead? He provides the answer himself. According to Maxwell, the right to lead “Isn’t gained by election or appointment. Having a position, title, rank or degree doesn’t qualify anyone to lead other people. And the ability doesn’t come automatically from age or experience either. No, it would be accurate to say that no one can be given the right to lead. The right to lead can only be earned. To say that the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola is one man who fits this bill as enunciated by Maxwell will merely be stating the obvious. “Success is not measured by what you accomplish, but by the opposition you have encountered, and the courage with which you have maintained the struggle against overwhelming odds,” says Orisson Swett Marden (1850-1924). POLL This immortal statement was uttered over 100 years ago. But the writer may have been referring to the improbable emergence of Oyetola, a man with tall but seemingly impossible dreams to the phenomenon who now bestrides the Osun political landscape like a colossus. As morning shows the day, many will agree that this enigma called Gboyega Oyetola is a hugely successful politician with an act of uncommon courage and bull-like determination to achieve his set political goals, despite all odds. There are non-contentious challenges in fixing fundamental errors of the past. It is an acknowledged fact that it is easier to destroy than to build. When he came on the saddle, the horizon was gloomy, even in the perception of an incurable optimist. The state was heavily indebted to the extent that the state got paltry or zero allocation for many months that cannot pay for the power supply to the state secretariat let alone other government expenses and workers’ salaries. How this wonderful man, a good manager of men and resources has been able to sustain the state in the last three and half years without owing workers’ salaries, carry on development projects in all sectors and meet other government expenses remains a miracle to the good people of Osun State. Even the COVID-19 pandemic that has compounded the economic woes of the many states nay Nigeria didn’t constitute a stumbling block to him in fulfilling his electoral promises to the people. The best form of propaganda is performance. In a sane and ideal political climate, such a man will be given the right of first refusal before anyone can challenge him. Thank God for good leaders. They are the arrowheads of historical movements. They make all the difference in the life of a people. The pioneer of good governance in Nigeria, the sage, late chief Obafemi Awolowo, the leader of leaders left his footprints indelibly on the sand of times to the extent that after his demise, he is still being celebrated. Twenty-three years after his death, (1999), some of his professed followers used his name to win political patronage in the entire South- West states of Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti and Lagos. It is an incontrovertible fact that our beloved state, Osun, has not been blessed with good leaders. There is no gainsaying that Oyetola’s quiet revolution in Osun State ought to be reciprocated by the appreciative people of the state on July 16. As Max Depree once said, “The first responsibility of a leader is to define reality”. Oyetola has done this with deep commitment and selflessness Before the emergence of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola as the governor of the state on November 27, 2018, the scandalous performance of successive governments, with the rare exception of Chief Bisi Akande’s administration, was better imagined than real. As a result of poor governance and the inherent institutionalized corrupt tendencies of public office holders, the state infrastructural facilities were still in a terrible state of decay and needed urgent attention and rehabilitation, even though billions of naira that went down the drain was voted for the same projects in the past. Consequently, he embarked on far-reaching reforms to make the state measure up to the standard of what a modern society should be and put it on the path of irreversible prosperity. The arrested development of the state explains why he was in too much of a hurry to develop the state despite the debt burden he met on the ground. There is no iota of doubt that Osun State is faced with enormous challenges that only altruistic, compassionate and visionary leaders like Oyetola can tackle headlong. There is no gainsaying that he has demonstrated the experience, strength of character, proficiency, dexterity and courage to provide purposeful leadership. As a man who treasured development, a good name and posterity, Oyetola has shown he can transform our state into an oasis of prosperity and usher in unprecedented peace, progress and development. Thomas Kanza insists that revolution in Africa must be a revolution in thinking. Revolution is not always about gun-wielding militants and fire-spitting ideological demagogues. There are men and women who change the course of history by making their environments a better place to live in. Others simply show the light for others to follow. According to Machiavelli’s two lessons in policy and strategy, first, a ruler can always learn and be more effective. Second, a ruler can learn to be more effective in the use of resources. It takes only those rulers who understand the nature of policies and master the principle of strategy to truly appreciate what strategic arrangement demands: both effectiveness and efficiency in the use of resources. There is no gainsaying that Oyetola’s quiet revolution in Osun State ought to be reciprocated by the appreciative people of the state on July 16. As Max Depree once said, “The first responsibility of a leader is to define reality”. Oyetola has done this with deep commitment and selflessness. Under Oyetola, Osun State has undergone manifest social and infrastructural transformation by way of construction of roads, provision of electricity and water supply, effective housing and healthcare delivery, agricultural and industrial development, grassroots development and above all, educational empowerment, the only true parameter for measuring the success or failure of any administration in the new knowledge-based world economy. My admiration for Oyetola is informed by my conviction that he is a man of destiny, who has excellently acquitted himself creditably as a visionary leader and statesman. What matters is that Oyetola’s achievements are on the ground and are adding value to the lives of the people. A famous American educator, Booker. T. Washington (1856-1915) said, “No man who continues to add something to the material, intellectual and moral well-being of the place in which he lives is left without proper reward.” Though it is not yet eldorado, there is no iota of doubt that Oyetola would lead Osun to the promised land, if he is allowed to continue the good works he has started. Having painstakingly searched, studied and analyzed all his challengers for the governorship stool of Osun State, not a few will agree with this writer that none of them is capable of handling the state better than him. There is no gainsaying that other contenders for the governorship seat of Osun just want to grab power for power’s sake, not knowing what to do with it. There are many lessons to learn from developed nations; primary among these is simply that power isn’t an end in itself, but a means to an end. This is where several underdeveloped, undemocratic, under-democratic and quasi-democratic nations miss the bus! In Nigeria, the overriding aim of politicians and political parties seems to be the quest for power for the sake of it, power as a means of advancing personal agendas and goals. Given the above enumerated clear differences between the performing incumbent governor of Osun State, Oyetola and his challengers, I harbour no iota of doubt in my mind that the Osun electorate will not want to entrust their collective destinies into the hands of political misfits. I cannot end this piece without commending the immortal words of George Orwell to the Osun electorate- “Those who elect misfits, impostors, thieves, and incompetent leaders are not victims but accomplices” A word, they say, is enough for the wise. Aminu writes from Ilobu, Osun state.