AKURE – Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon Lucky Aiyedatiwa, on Sunday night rescued over 25 accident victims who were travelling from the North to Ondo State. The accident victims who were all from Northern part of the federation were travelling in an 18-seater Hummer bus, with registration number EKY321XS Lagos, rammed into a J5 bus with registration number RBC 393XE Abuja, occupied by Hausa/Fulani passengers along Kiniso highway in Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The deputy governor, who was returning from Lagos, where he represented the Governor Akeredolu at the wedding ceremony of Adebola Irede, son of former Ogun State Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel and his bride, stopped his convoy and rescued the victims among who were children and mothers. He rushed the victims who sustained varying degree of injuries, to the nearest clinic at Igushin community for medical attention, but nobody died. The deputy governor, therefore, paid the medical bill, instructing the medical personnel to get back to him in case there’s need to pay more money for the treatment. In a statement signed by the Press Secretary to the Governor, Office of the Deputy Governor, Kenneth Odusola, the deputy governor noted that Ondo State people are accommodating, but would resist criminals whenever they come from. The deputy governor said: “We are accommodating people, but we will not hesitate in resisting criminals. -Advertisement- POLL “One thing is clear, crime does not have a tribe, so whoever commits crime would be made to face the wrath of the law. “The people involved in the road accident are first and for most human beings, the Nigerians. Their tribe is irrelevant in this circumstance, we need to save them. “The women were seated on the roadside with their babies, while some the occupants of the vehicles were bleeding profusely. “We saw the need for urgent medical attention and we evacuated and took them to the nearest hospital for first aid. Thank God, none of the lost his life in the accident. “What our Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, is saying is that we must not allow criminals to have their way in our state and we must flush them out of our forests.” No life was however lost in the accident which occurred around 8:30pm today.