LAGOS – Dr  Akin Ogunbiyi, Accord gubernatorial candidate in the Osun State election has said that the Osun State people have rejected the All Progressives Congress  (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and are yearning for a third force which according to him is the Accord Party. Ogunbiyi who spoke on Arise Television on Thursday said that he has visited over 500 communities, associations, trade unions and so on. “We discussed extensively, showed them our manifesto, which reflects hope, new beginning, and I am very confident that Osun people will vote for Accord Party. On the attack on the house of the Labour Party gubernatorial candidate, Lasun Yusuf, as it relates to security during the election,  the Accord Party standard bearer said, ” The perpetrators know that they have failed and have resorted to fermenting trouble. They just want to cause unnecessary apprehension for the voters. I am appealing to the people to go out there and vote. The security personnel are on the ground to ensure that everything goes on peacefully. “I can tell everybody in Osun that there is not going to be any violence. The attack on Lasun’s house was just part of the gimmick to scare people. They know that they are losing the election. They will fail at the polls. People should go out there and exercise their voting right quietly. They shouldn’t fight anybody. There is no issue of violence at the election,” he added. “In Accord we are very peaceful. I don’t have any thug. I don’t have anybody guarding me. We showed the people our manifesto of hope. I have said it that I am the Awolowo of this time. I am going to deliver on the mandate that our party has given to the people,” Ogunbiyi said. He added, “We ae going to create 100,000 jobs within one year of our government. We will effect local government election within six months of our coming to power. There is no development in the state. The last local government election was done16 years ago. “We will give a compulsory primary education to our people. I will give priority to agriculture. We have massive rich agricultural land. We have a very good source of income to work on. This government is lazy, it is not doing anything to improve our income. POLL “People should relate to our manifesto and my background. I am an investor and an entrepreneur. I stated mutual benefit with N5m. We have employed 5,000 people. We have grown to become a conglomerate. We are into oil and gas, transportation, real estate, etcetera. Our mutual benefit microfinance bank got six awards from the Central Bank of Nigeria  (CBN) for the first six years of operation. We are going to empower our women, give them interest-free loans,” he said.