UMUAHIA – Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has congratulated the governor-elect of Osun State, Senator Ademola Nurudeen Adeleke on his victory at the just concluded gubernatorial election in the state. In a release signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sir Onyebuchi Omemanka, the Abia governor stated that the election of Adeleke on Saturday is a clear testimony of the consistency of Senator Adeleke in the PDP as well as the readiness of Nigerians to follow the path of integrity and credibility which PDP symbolizes. Ikpeazu therefore saluted the tenacity of the people of Osun State in standing by Adeleke and believed that the governor-elect’s tenure will usher in an era of positive change in the state. He used the opportunity to also congratulate members of the PDP across the country and believed that the outcome of the Osun election will serve as a signpost of good things to come. Meanwhile, Col Austin Akobundu rtd, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), candidate for the Abia Central Senatorial election for 2023 has congratulated Senator Ademola Adeleke of PDP for winning the Osun State governorship election held last Saturday, July 16, 2022. In a statement made available to newsmen in Umuahia on Sunday, Akobundu explained that by Adeleke’s victory the people of Osun State have collectively demonstrated that intimidation, harassment and vote buying cannot sway the conscious and desire of the people from electing a credible and result oriented grass root man who, over the years, has proven that the people matter most in the democratic process and are indeed the epicenter of any development. Full text of the speech reads: “I, Col Austin Akobundu rtd, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), candidate for the Abia Central Senatorial election for 2023, hereby congratulate Senator Ademola Adeleke of PDP for winning the Osun State governorship election held last Saturday, July 16, 2022. “I am highly elated because the people of Osun State have collectively demonstrated that intimidation, harassment and vote buying cannot sway the conscious and desire of the people from electing a credible and result oriented grass root man who, over the years, has proven that the people matter most in the democratic process and are indeed the epicenter of any development.” POLL “With a whopping 403,371 votes to beat the incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola who secured 375,027, the electorates of Osun State have clearly given the red flag to APC that its days of maladministration, nepotism, lackluster fight against insecurity, visionless leadership, destruction of the economy, encouragement of corruption in high and low places in Nigeria are over.” “Indeed, Senator Ademola Adeleke’s victory was one of the strategies and road maps I, as the immediate past National Organising Secretary of PDP, with my colleagues, put in place in the party before leaving the office in December 2021.” “PDP is now repackaged to stand firm with the people; their welfare and interests being our focal points. We are ready to restore Nigeria to its past glory and heal the wounds that have been inflicted on this once fledging nation by the APC administration at the federal and state levels.” “In Abia Central Senatorial District, I promise to offer quality representation, honest service, provide dividends of democracy, legislative excellence etc if elected as Senator Abia Central Senatorial district in 2023. “On behalf of my family and the Austin Akobundu Campaign Council, I Col Austin Akobundu rtd, once more congratulate Senator Ademola Adeleke for winning the Osun State governorship poll and emerging as the Governor-elect”.