LAGOS  – The International Finance Corporation (IFC), says it is set to inject US$1.9million to the underwriting of new insurance climate policies aimed at ameliorating the challenges of smallholder farmers in Nigeria and Zambia. The IFC’s US$1.94million, it was said, would provide advisory services for the development of new climate insurance products and risk analytics, helping insurers in the two African countries to underwrite smallholder farmers profitably. The project targets 2.4million new climate change policies from the two countries in the next three years. “The primary objective of this project is to improve the resilience of smallholder farmers by increasing their access to climate and other inclusive insurance products,” said the IFC. Zambia and Nigeria will each be funded to the tune of $970,000 in a programme in which IFC said will also contribute towards increased access to insurance by women farmers while the advisory programme will also help in scaling up the existing climate change insurance products and strengthen the insurers’ business development and underwriting capacity. IFC further disclosed that the inclusive climate insurance programme will help enhance insurance regulators’ supervisory capacity. Many underwriters in the African continent including those in east and west Africa are signing up to sustainable insurance agenda but high loss ratios in the emerging insurance classes such as animal and crop insurance have seen a good number of players steer off this kind of polices. The IFC programme hopes to turn this around by helping insurers to establish “more diverse, efficient and sustainable insurance product distribution channels and insurance processes”. POLL By the end of the programme in June 2025, Zambia underwriters are expected to have issued at least 1.5 million new inclusive climate insurance policies to smallholder farmers, generating premium volume of at least $4million. In Nigeria, IFC targets to have helped the insurers issue at least 900,000 new such policies, generating total premium volume of at least $3million. In addition, underwriters in these two markets are expected to have launched at least two new financial or insurance products and established at least one new partnership with a bank, agribusiness or any other entity. Such partnerships between insurers and banks or agribusinesses, IFC sayid will help underwriters in “bundling of insurance solutions with credit and other products”. Regional reinsurer Zep-Re has success stories from countries such as Zambia through the Farmer Input Support Program. Zep-Re CEO Hope Murera, who led the reinsurer in acquiring a stake in Agricultural and Climate Risk Enterprise (Acre) Africa, said their experience in Zambia confirmed that bundling agricultural insurance with other products can help accelerate the uptake of crop and livestock cover. “We have seen that when we do bundling (of agricultural insurance) with seeds and fertiliser, with government support, then we are able to cover more. We have had success stories in places like Zambia,” says Ms Murera. At the heart of the IFC programmes in Zambia and Nigeria will be such partnerships and the sharing of lessons learnt from other parts of the world. Partnerships are seen as a quicker path in growing insurance penetration levels at a lower cost given that many insurers are running on lean budgets, with the situation having been exacerbated by Covid-19 disruptions.