All true sons and daughters of the Yoruba race have been charged to unite as one behind the All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a proud son of the race and one of the most formidable and experienced politicians to have ever emerged from Africa. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, gave the charge at the grand finale of the 2022 edition of the annual Ojude-Oba Festival, held at Oba S.K. Adetona Golden Jubilee Center, Awujale Palace Annexe, Ijebu Ode, on Monday. Speaking as the special guest of honour to the Ojude Oba Festival, where he joined the multitudes of well-wishers to celebrate the grand annual occasion, Sanwo-Olu expressed gratitude to His Majesty, Kabiyesi Alaiyeluwa, Oba Dr Sikiru Kayode Adetona, the Awujale and Paramount Ruler of Ijebuland, under whose watch the Ojude Oba Festival has grown in leaps and bounds, becoming one of the most important cultural and religious events in Nigeria today, adding that “The people of Ijebuland at home and abroad have a lot to be proud of, as you showcase your rich culture and history to the world.” Sanwo-Olu noted that “The Ojude Oba Festival has while staying true to its Islamic roots, also expanded to become a unifying symbol and occasion for people of all faiths, tribes, and tongues; as well as a global celebration of Ijebu heritage and culture. “We must never lose sight of this unifying element, at a time when the forces of division seem to be working so actively to undermine all that we cherish as a people. Celebrations like Ojude Oba remind us that evil will never triumph over good.” While praying for “long life and continuing good health for our beloved Kabiyesi Alayeluwa, Ogbagba the second, our most esteemed and welcoming host,” Sanwo-Olu added: “It is my prayer that the Almighty God will continue to keep us in good health and sound mind, to see many more celebrations of Sallah and Ojude Oba in the land of the living.” Sanwo-Olu said: “As a proud son of Lagos, it is personally very pleasing to be in this colourful ceremony among my Ijebu brothers and sisters. We the peoples of Lagos and Ogun share a long historical and cultural bond, shaped by the same forces and experiences, nourished by the same waterways, and living up to the same Omoluabi standards and ideals. “This was what spurred my brother Governor, Dr Dapo Abiodun and I to, in 2021, establish the Lagos-Ogun Joint Development Commission, to collaborate on key areas of mutual benefit and development, and accelerate socio-economic growth for all our communities and our people. POLL “The road network linking Ijebu-Ode, Epe and Lekki is yet another concrete manifestation of our collaboration – Ogun State has completed their own stretch, while we will complete our own end this year, opening up new commercial and logistics opportunities in that axis, and positively impacting the lives of our people, many of whose daily lives cross our joint borders. I spoke earlier about the fact that we in Lagos and Ogun are nourished by the same waters. Our Adiyan Waterworks project draws its water from the Ogun River, which is a defining body of water for Ogun State. These are just a few examples of the very many ways in which our destinies are bound together.”