LAGOS – The Commissioner for Insurance at the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), has charged insurance brokers to ensure that their business development plans align with the development of the industry and business sustainability. The CFI made the remark at the opening of 2022 Retreat of the Chief Executives Officers of insurance brokers organised by Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers in Lagos recently with the theme: “Business Strategy for Sustainability – Personal Mastery and Self Leadership.” According to him, insurance propagation should be consistent with innovation, creativity, deliberate sustainable plan and effectiveness and focus on contemporary business acumen such that would drive growth of the sector. Thomas noted that insurance brokerage has a significant role to play in claims administration driven by technology for optimum processing and deliveries. He said: “As captains of an arm of the Insurance sector, it should be well understood and comprehended that you must continuously live and work purposefully towards a vision, in alignment with your values and in a state of constant learning about yourself and the reality in which you exist. “ It is my belief that Personal Mastery and Self-leadership both require self-awareness, self-management and self-learning. How can we be true to ourselves if we don’t know who we are, what our values are, and what our vision is? “Let me point out the fact that in agreement with your theme for this retreat, it is apparent that no business entity will be able to survive unless it takes into consideration the following – the community in which it operates, delivering of consistent value to customers, maintaining the highest standards of governance and ethics, and mitigates its overall impact on the environment. Consequently, as CEOs of the insurance broking profession, you should continually explore ways with other stakeholders to facilitate economic prosperity; ensure environmental sustainability and social development to drive long term sustainable growth in the Nigerian insurance industry for the overall lasting benefits to the society, pertinent to our national and institutional growth. -Advertisement- POLL Let me at this juncture emphasize that the insurance industry as a business is not outside of the same pressures as businesses in other industry/ sectors. However, the impact of unsustainable trends can create significant pressures on the industry’s profitability in the short and long run. He outlined Inadequate brokerage services to policyholders; Poor claims handling service; Price based competition among players; Technology adverse (need to explore inclusiveness via insurtech) as the challenges the brokers must come to terms with and be prepared to address them. The CFI observed further that Lack of innovative products that meet customer’s needs; Concentration of operations in few locations; Focus on big ticket businesses like Oil and Gas, Aviation etc thus need for diversification; Poor risk governance as well as Poor distribution channels and skill Know-How are also a ban on the sector’s growth path. Thomas added: “As CEOs, you need to be mindful of the need to entrench a sound “Business Strategy for Sustainability” as many insurance businesses claims, but without a realistic and effective sustainable business strategy. Suffice it to say that such businesses are unlikely to deliver the gains that more sustainable performance could bring through the determination of their activities, behaviour, products, services and a detailed understanding of the environmental and social context in which they operate.”