Ukraine has recently destroyed two of Russia’s military ammo depots in Ukraine’s southern Kherson region, according to a Ukrainian military spokesperson. Natalia Humeniuk, the head of the United Coordinating Press Center of Security and Defense Forces of the South of Ukraine, was asked during an interview with the Ukrainian news agency Ukrinform on Monday about the reported destruction of an ammo depot in the city of Nova Kakhovka in the Kherson region. Humeniuk responded that in addition to one in Nova Kakhovka, an ammo depot in another district of the Kherson region was also destroyed. Humeniuk stated that these strikes resulted in the “enemy” lacking ammo to attack Ukraine’s positions, saying that they saw “very good results.” Such strikes “not only interrupt the logistic chains of the area, but it also affects the morale of the occupants,” Humeniuk said, according to an English translation. Humeniuk did not specify exactly when each ammo depot was destroyed, or where the second destroyed depot was located. Newsweek was not able to independently verify that the two Russian ammo depots had been destroyed. The defense ministries of Russia and Ukraine were contacted for confirmation and comment. Much of the Kherson region has been under Russian control since early in the Russia-Ukraine War, which began on February 24 this year. This has reportedly not stopped Ukrainian forces from continuing their fight to retake the oblast nearly five months into the conflict. Ukraine has recently destroyed two of Russia’s military ammo depots in Ukraine’s southern Kherson region, according to a Ukrainian military spokesperson. Above, fighters of the territorial defense unit, a support force to the regular Ukrainian army, take part in an exercise as part of the regular combat tactics classes, not far from the Ukrainian town of Bucha in the Kyiv region on July 13. Sergei Supinsky/AFP via Getty ImagesIn late June, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksei Arestovich said in an interview with internet blogger Mark Feigin that Ukrainian forces had moved within 18 kilometers, a little more than 11 miles, of Kherson city. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW), a U.S. think tank that provides frequent updates on the Russia-Ukraine War, provides maps on assessed territorial control and fighting in Ukraine. The ISW’s most recent map for Sunday, July 17, pinpoints “claimed Ukrainian counteroffensives” taking place along the edge of the Russian-held territory in the Kherson region. The map circled a point about midway between the cities of Kherson and Mykolaiv, which is about 36 miles from Kherson and is not currently shown to be under Russian control. The ISW assessed that the circled point had seen “significant fighting in the past 24 hours.” POLL Last week, Ukraine announced that it had destroyed two different ammo depots using U.S.-supplied HIMARS missiles within Nova Kakhovka. It was not immediately clear if either of the two strikes on Russian ammo depots in Nova Kakhovka that Ukraine announced last week were the same that Humeniuk was referring to in the interview with Ukrinform. Newsweek asked Ukraine’s defense ministry for more information on when both of the strikes Humeniuk mentioned took place.