LAGOS  – The Independent Petroleum Products Group (IPPG), has assured indigenous players that are equipped and able to fill the void post IOC divestments of support from the Federal Government. Abdulrazaq Isa, Chairman of IPPG, said that with the collective support and deliberate collaboration with the government, industry regulators and Nigerian financial institutions working in concert, indigenous players can optimize the numerous opportunities on offer by the divestment activities. He said the first phase of divestments, demonstrated that indigenous exploration and production companies are capable of stepping up and performing at the highest level. “I believe the current exercise will even be more successful considering the size of responsibility on the indigenous players and the determination to sustainable growth of the sector and the country. “Let me assure the industry that the onshore and shallow water assets being transferred in the course of these divestments by the IOCs are in safe hands with the indigenous exploration and production companies”, Isa said. Against this background, the IPPG openly solicits a high-level dialogue between Government, its institutions and Indigenous Operators that have demonstrated capacity and strength. Together, they must be the timely catalyst needed, and the safe hands to be trusted with these emerging opportunities. “To date, our members have a proven track record of performance and remain best placed to guarantee a steady flow of investments in adding value to these divested assets”, Isa said adding that an aggregate of over $20 billion has been spent by indigenous player on acquisition plus capital expenditures in the past ten years to grow the divested assets. “Some of our members have demonstrated an appetite for supporting the Government’s energy security vision by building a broader value-adding midstream and downstream business. Overall, our members have deployed unique capabilities in operations which have minimised incidences of community disruptions and enhanced impactful community engagement models. IPPG strongly believes indigenous players have the technical and financial capability to realise the Government’s aspirations for the sustainable growth of our industry”, he stated. POLL The group expressed their gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for his continuous support for the survival and growth of our industry and also to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources for his constant support and interest in the progress of their members. It also appreciated the operating leadership, understanding and support of the NNPC and NCDMB’s dogged support for the promotion of indigenous companies is highly applauded while re-affirming its continuous commitment and support to the policies and programmes of Government, the NNPC Limited, industry regulators and other relevant stakeholders for the benefit of the industry as well as Nigeria.