AKURE – Police detectives have rescued 23 children and 52 adults from a compartment at the underground of a church in Ondo city, Ondo State on Friday night. Parading the pastor in charge of the church, Pastor David Anifowose, and some of his accomplices at the state Police Command headquarters, Alagbaka, Akure, the Police said the abductees were kept in the church, Whole Bible Believer Church, Vallentino Area of Ondo city, on the order of the pastor. Sources said the pastor told the abductees to remain in the compartment of the church awaiting the second coming of Jesus Christ by September this year. In his confessional statement, the Assistant Pastor of the church popularly known as Ondo Church, Pastor Peter Josiah, said he’s in charge of the church and only taught the victims the holy scripture. The pastor of the church popularly known as Ondo Church and other accomplices have been arrested by police detectives in the town. The rescued people were seen in three commercial buses escorted by police patrol vehicles that conveyed them to the police station. Pastor Peter disclosed that “I was called by God to rewrite the King James Version of the Bible because there is a lot that was wrong with the version of the Bible. “I only teach them what the Bible says about the second coming of Jesus Christ. The prophesy that is fulfilling this time is showing that the rapture is close. I never even mention years to the church. I never teach them to run from their parents, I only teach them the gospel. I only tell them to obey their parents in the lord.” -Advertisement- POLL But the head pastor of the church, Pastor David Anifowose, declared that he received the instruction from God that they(members) should camp in the church until his second coming. He said: “I was the one that received the instruction from God that the people of the church should camp in the church and wait for his second coming. And my members were waiting for the second coming of Jesus when the policemen invaded the church and arrested us.” A 24-year-old university graduate and member of the church, Olasunkami Olafisoye, said she joined the church in disobedience to her parents’ instruction because they were leading her away from God. She said: “My parents are not attending the church again. When we left our former church, they usually stayed at home and before then, I am not comfortable with the Bible teaching of the church. “I later joined this church because my parent is leading me away from God and I want to make heaven. I love the way the church followed Jesus and the way they hold on to Christ. “I disobeyed my parents because they are leading me away from Jesus and I find the way to heaven from this Church. I cannot because of parents lost heaven.” Michael Olorunyomi, one of the parents who reported the case to the police, said he was a member of the church before but left because of the wrong teachings of  the pastors. According to Michael, “the pastor teaches the church members about the need to divorce their wives while the husband needs to divorce their wife if they want to go to heaven. “They turned the children against their parents by teaching them what is not found in the Bible. When I left the church, my daughter refused to follow me. I made the mistake of living her behind when I was leaving. “Before I knew what was going on, my daughter who is at the 300 level in University, dropped out and camped in the church waiting for the second coming of Jesus Christ because the pastor said there’s nothing again in the world that the rapture will come on September this year. “They have even arranged a marriage between my daughter and one of the pastor’s families. They said nobody should go to work, no school and they must do nothing than waiting for him in the church. “Look at every one of them, they looked unkempt. He instructed them they must not make their hair that anybody that makes his hair will lose heaven.” Spokesperson for the state Police Command, Mrs. Funmi Odunlami, a Superintendent of Police (SP) disclosed 77 persons were rescued from the underground compartment. She said: “We received information about the activities of a particular church and its Pastors and we reacted spontaneously and discovered 77 people being caged in an underground apartment within the church. “The two Pastors have been helping the command in its investigation,  investigation is still ongoing and the picture is not clear yet over the activities of the two Pastors “Abduction is not a small offence and for us but for us not to mislead the public,  we need to investigate the issue to get the true picture of what happened. “The fact remains that there was an hour of a church and the people around reacted and we went there to ascertain this but we just need to investigate and unravel the facts about the incident. We will make our findings public after the investigation.”