BENIN – Following the recent agitation by 52 Communities in Iyekhogba community, Edo State Chairman of Host Communities of Nigeria producing Oil and Gas, (HOSTCOM) Comrade, Andrew Nosa Oyegue, has called on the management of Nigeria Petroleum Development Commission (NPDC) to rise up to the demands of Host Communities. Comrade Oyegue made this known while addressing newsmen shortly after the protest by the youth of the Communities. He said the demands of the protesting communities are not out of place as it is important for operating companies to keep up with their social responsibility to host communities which will eventually promote and sustain peace between the company and their host. According to Mr. Oyegue, the host communities in Edo State have been deprived of their rights for a long time and have decided to drive home their demands. He noted, that in as much as he is in full support of the demands, the Communities should eschew all manner of violent approaches to the issues at stake. Addressing stàkeholders who were invited to Edo State Government house, The Edo State Acting Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu charged the Communities and NPDC to sit together and agree on terms the demands would be resolved. “We must protect these facilities while the facility work for us. It is our collective common wealth and we must protect it” “We are giving a two weeks timeline to address these issues, our focus is development and we must ensure a peaceful resolution and it must be a win-win for both parties.” POLL Speaking at the stàkeholders meeting, the member of National BOT HOSTCOM , Chief Francis Inegbeneki lamented over decades of marginalization of communities housing the oil companies despite operating in a peaceful and rancor free atmosphere. He called on the management of NPDC to hasten the process of implementing their demands as the people have risen up to their rights. In a similar vein, Mr Owen Erhimwinosa went ahead to list their demands. According to him ” the NPDC should employ two Benin Men out of five into the executive director position. NPDC management should employ a Benin Man as Chief Security Officer (CSO) who will be recommended by the Host Communities. A Chief laising Officer (CLO) who must also be a Benin Man recommended by Host Communities should be appointed. Host Communities should be awarded the contract of pipeline surveillance and maintenance. While two per cent of what is harnessed from the oil and gas Communities should be given to host communities”. He further added that NPDC should at all times during the Benin annual festival and Christmas celebration present gifts to the palace of Benin kingdom and the traditional leaders in the 52 Communities and added that the NNPC management should ensure the prosecution of their staff who shot an indigene of Edo State who is currently paralyzed. Responding, the Managing Director of NPDC Benin , Muhammad Zarah expressed his appreciation to the Acting State Governor, Philip Shaibu and other stàkeholders present for initiating the dialogue process at the government house. He emphasized that Edo State has been very peaceful hence the decision to build it’s International headquarters in Ogba. He said siting the company in Benin City has also contributed to the economic wellbeing of the state, following foreign investors who visit the state every week. He further added that contrary to the misinformation that Edo is the highest oil and gas producing state, Edo only produces 12,000 barrell as against Delta state that produces 150,000 barells daily. He said NPDC international has come to stay in Benin as the company has spent so much funds to ensure it is up to standard. He however reassure the commitment of NPDC top management to meet up with it’s social responsibility which the protesting Communities brought to the table. The Edo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, also appealed to the host communities and NPDC to embrace dialogue and ensure a peaceful resolution of the crisis. “We should all have an inclusive and constructive engagement that will be beneficial to all of us.”