Former Permanent Secretary in the Presidency, Dr. Bukar Usman has, again, been honoured with the Noble Patron of The Arts Award by the Pan African Writers Association (PAWA). The PAWA International Writers Conference was held at the Conference Centre, University of Ibadan June 23-25, 2022 while the Association’s Awards took place at the dinner for the delegates held at the Premier Hotel, Ibadan on June 25, 2022. In a letter of invitation for the award, signed by the General Secretary of PAWA, Dr. Wale Okediran, a former national president of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), PAWA stated that the award was in recognition of Dr. Usman’s long-standing commitment to Arts and Literature, in Nigeria and in the diaspora. It reads: “On behalf of the council of the Pan African Writers Association (PAWA), I bring you greetings from Accra, Ghana. It is also my pleasure to inform you of the decision of the PAWA’s Council to honour you with the Noble Patron of the Arts Award. This award, which is a result of your long-standing commitment to the Arts and Literature in Nigeria and in the diaspora will be given to you during the PAWA’s Dinner/Award night on Saturday, June 25, 2022 at 7pm at Premier Hotel, Ibadan. ” The award was presented to Dr. Usman, on behalf of PAWA by Tunde Odunlade, the proprietor of the Tunde Odunlade Arts Gallery, Ibadan. Usman, a public intellectual retired from federal civil service in 1999 and devoted his time to creative writing, cultural research and folklore revival in Nigeria. He has written more than 40 books both in English and Hausa Languages. In 2014, Dr. Usman received in Niamey, Niger Republic, an international award by the Nigerian and Nigerien Indigenous Writers Association for his contributions to the revival of Hausa folklore. Also in the same year, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, conferred on him Honorary Doctor of Letters (D.Litt) degree. Earlier, in 2013, he received a Linguistic Association of Nigeria (LAN) award for his meritorious services to Hausa language and literature. In 2015, Dr. Usman, the national president of Nigeria Folklore Society (NFS) and chairman of Dr. Bukar Usman Foundation, was honoured for his excellence by King’s College Old Boys Association (The Golden Ingots). In 2016, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, honoured him with an award for ethical and value-oriented leadership.