Gabi desperately needed to get rid of a girl who has been warming his bed after getting her pregnant. He said she was pleasurable but he couldn’t marry her. She was not the kind of girl he wished to end up with. He preferred classic ladies with big portfolios. He already has a girlfriend he wanted to marry before he met this particular girl. According to him, all he just wanted was to simply have fun and not to marry her. Now, the girl is pregnant and he wants to do away with her at all costs before his girlfriend finds out. “I lose interest easily in any woman I sleep with. Once I have had sex with her, I would not wish to continue the relationship. My highest stay with any girl is a month after sex. “I have a girl I wanted to marry but I decided not to sleep with her because I didn’t want to lose interest in her like other girls. Since we have been together I have not touched her but I have other girls I sleep with. “Recently I met a girl in a youth programme I attended. It was a six-week programme. Before long we bonded and started dating. I wanted to just have a fling with her as usual. I told her about the girl I intended to marry. She said she didn’t mind. “This girl was very good in bed, she drove me crazy with her sensual moves and touches. Since I have been seeing girls I have not come across her type. She knew how to satisfy me and I was always happy to be with her but I couldn’t marry her. She is not the kind of woman I wanted to marry. I like classic, educated and career ladies. Somebody that can bring something to the table – at least, I won’t be the only one struggling to take care of the family. But this one was the opposite of everything I wanted in a woman. The only thing I liked about her was just the romance. And she was always available for me anytime I needed her. “She knew I had somebody I wanted to marry but she was now telling me that she was pregnant. I have tried all I could to convince her that I can’t marry her, that she should get rid of the pregnancy, but to no avail. It’s like she had this all planned out. I remembered during sex, she told me she preferred we make love without protection. She said she had drugs she took to prevent pregnancy. Now she wanted to tie me down with this pregnancy. “I knew she loved me and gave me attention more than my real girlfriend. But I didn’t love her; I only enjoyed having fun with her, but not enough to marry her. “Right now, I don’t know what to do. My girlfriend doesn’t even know that I am seeing another girl, and in her mind I am a good and disciplined guy who doesn’t like sex, or who prefer to wait till marriage to have sex. If she finds out about this, I know she will be really shocked. I don’t know what to do. I am thinking of adding something to her drink to abort the pregnancy since she doesn’t want to do it herself.” POLL Dear Gabi, it would be a wicked act to inject her drink with a substance to abort the pregnancy. I am not asking you to marry her by force either since you don’t love her – it would be a case of correcting wrong with another wrong. However, the deed has been done, you must be responsible. That is why it’s always advisable not to date anyone you can’t marry because of unforeseen circumstances like this. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences, too.