ASABA – Delta State Govern­ment has charged the Minister of State, Labour and Employ­ment, Barr. Festus Keyamo to address the ongoing Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU) strike rather than play politics with the lives of Nige­rian Students. This development is com­ing on the sidelines of recent comments by Barr Festus Key­amo on infrastructural devel­opment in Delta State. Speaking on Monday in Asaba, Commissioner for In­formation, Mr Charles Aniag­wu cautioned the opposition party not to paint pictures that are at variance to reality. He urged the Minister to take a cue from the success of the Delta State Government in ensuring uninterrupted aca­demic sessions in addressing problems of Federal Univer­sities across the country. Aniagwu said, “Who is he to say that nothing is working in Delta State. When those in APC speak, they should not involve lies. “They should face issues af­fecting labour and the sad facts that some of our children in Federal and some state Univer­sities are not in school due to the strike that has lingered for five months”. Beisdes, Aniagwu further lamented the continuous plot by the opposition in the state to launch an attack of calumny on the state government in the guise of protesting pensioners. He said that the recently staged protest by pensioners who retired under the local government was led by the women leader of APC to soil the rising image of Governor Okowa. POLL Though he noted that the protesters who retired under the local government were not under the pension scheme of the state government, he fur­ther mentioned that the state government has frequently assisted the local government to clear its backlog of pensions and salaries. ” When we came in, we gave the Local Government across the state a sum of N600 million to meet up with salaries. “We have also been assist­ing them to pay their pensions. When we came in, we were giv­ing N150 million but upscale it to N300 million and further increased it to N500 million to meet their needs. “If we have made such ef­forts you begin to wonder why this woman and those who are bankrolling her begin slander the image of the state gover­nor,” he asserted.