Governments at all levels and religious bodies have been urged to work with coaches and therapists in order to equip parents in training their wards. Speaking during a virtual conference with the theme. “Bridging the gap between parents and their adolescents’’, the convener of the discussion, Nwadiuto Akwitti described parenting as a great task and added that religious leaders and coaches should be involved. Akwitti maintained that the involvement of religious leaders in parenting was ideal as parents tend to listen to their religious leaders. Explaining further she said: “It takes more than the parents to raise a child, schools, churches and mosques should work with the families to help bring up a total child, it would be wonderful if we could hold “bridging the gap” in religious organisations’’. While describing social media as the social life of adolescents, she stressed the need for parents to educate them about the difference between the virtual world and reality. Also, she advised that parents should not see parenting as difficult, but as a learning walk of love. To her, parenting is a relationship, adding “every relationship needs work. But I’ll love us to see it as an investment in ourselves. Yes, see it as an investment in you. POLL “When we get frustrated and we snap at our children, it’s revealing to us that we need to be more patient. Hence, work on your emotions. When you learn, it’s easier to help our children learn also”. Talking about the misuse of substances by adolescents and their involvement in early sex, she said: “What I see majorly behind all these are teens that are stressed and living with anxiety and depression. Teens trying to fit in and looking for love in the wrong places. “But parenting takes a chunk of the blame. What we do to our children in the name of love, is interpreted as something else by the child. “Parents should try as much as possible to build an atmosphere of love in the home. Know how they are doing. Then talk with your child. What we do most times is to talk at them. Once you recognise that the behaviours your child exhibits are beyond your control, get help.” On the idea behind the conference, the convener of the event, said it aimed to equip parents to see through the eyes of their adolescents so as to parent them better. On her part, the brain behind “Lagos Mom”, Yetti Williams who spoke on, “Understanding your adolescents and the social media’’ believed that parenting is a mindful collaborative effort. However, Williams emphasised the need for parents to understand the fact that the present adolescents were born into the digital age. She said: “We can only make changes in them when we empathise from where they are coming from, that makes us effective parents”. A veteran broadcaster, Adezua Onyenukwe talked about the importance of effective communication between parents and their adolescents, stating that it gives room for mutual understanding between the young ones and their parents. Maintaining that gab must exist between parents and their adolescents, Onyenukwe said: “As soon as the teenagers move out to meet with their peers, their opinion about life change and they will think they know it all, but we all know that they do not know it all. At this stage, parents should be on the watch out because the decision such teenagers take will affect their future”.