At least 10 members of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) have petitioned the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Akali Baba over the plan by the union to go ahead with the 12th Triennial Delegates’ Conference despite the subsisting order of the National Industrial Court Lagos. The aggrieved members in a petition dated July 15, 2022, signed by Timothy Oreofe Adewale of Adewale & Adewale, its solicitors also copied the Vice President of Nigeria, Minister of Labour and Employment, Director-General, Department of State Services and the Registrar of Trade. The petitioner said that the court had already restrained congress from going ahead with the election, stressing that any conduct contrary to that is flagrant disobedience to the court. The two days triennial delegates’ conference is scheduled to commence Tuesday, July 19 and 20, 2022. The complainants are; the Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI). Pulp Paper and Paper Products Printing and Publishing Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PPAPPPAPSSAN), Nigeria Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transport Senior Staff Association (NMNO/WTSSA), Senior Staff Association of Shipping Clearing and Forwarding Agencies and Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN). Others are Precision, Electrical and Related Equipment Senior Staff Association (PERESSA), Shop and Distributive Trade Senior Staff Association (SHOPDIS), Textile Garment and Tailoring Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (TGTSSAN), Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institution (SSAUTHRIAI) and Automobile, Boatyard, Transport, Equipment and Allied Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (AUTOBATE). The petition read in part: “We are writing as solicitors to the below-mentioned trade union association of Nigeria to request you to use your good offices and leadership position to urgently prevail and stop the TUC from going ahead with its 12th Triennial Delegates’ conference scheduled for the 19th and 20th of July, 2022 as there is a subsisting order of the National Industrial Court Lagos, restraining TUC from holding the conference. Please find attached a copy of the order of Honourable Justice R.H. Gwandu restraining TUC, the defendant in the case holding its 12th Triennial Delegates Conference. POLL We hope the above will help guide your actions in immediately compelling and mandating the TUC to obey the court order.” Recalls that the National Industrial Court of Nigeria had on July 6, 2022, retrained TUC from going ahead with the conference, pending the outcome of the case before it. The court had adjourned the case till Monday, July 18, 2022. The court said that it granted the interlocutory order as prayed on the claimant’s motion paper dated and filed on June 16, 22 by the complainants.