EJIKEME OMENAZU LAGOS (WITH AGENCY REPORT) Riaan Swiegelaar, the co-founder of the South African Satanic Church (SASC), has quit his position as presiding priest of the controversial church. The controversial priest, who threw in the towel on May 30, 2022, also resigned from the church council as well as his membership of the organisation. Swiegelaar, in a live video broadcast on Facebook, said, “To be very honest, I initially thought I’d quietly slip out the backdoor and I didn’t think people would be so interested in why I do what I do.” According to him, he engaged in Satanism because it resonated with him at the time, and because he was “very sad and very broken, without realising it. I think a lot of people resonate at Satanism when they come from a very broken place.” He continued: “I have met thousands of Satanists over the past year and they are extremely hurt and broken— that’s the one thing they all have in common.” In tears, Swiegelaar added, “To this day, there have only been four Christians in my entire life who have shown me what unconditional love is.”” POLL Adele Frey, one of the people who supported him, messaged him, saying she just did a simple thing by showing him love. Of this, he said: “People, showing love for others is everything. You showed me the love of Christ, I saw it in you.” He added that Frey showed him unconditional love at a time when he was an “ugly monster”, and when he adopted Christians who do that, stressing, “You showed me unconditional love.” In mid-May, Swiegelaar conducted his last interview as a member of the SASC on the CapeTalk radio station, not knowing it would be his last radio interview as an oldie. Swigelaar said in the interview that he did not believe that Jesus Christ existed. A lady from the radio team walked up to him after the interview and hugged him in a way he had never been EJ IKEME OMENAZU LAGOS (WITH AGENCY REPORT) Riaan Swiegelaar, the co-founder of the South African Satanic Church (SASC), has quit his position as presiding priest of the controversial church. The controversial priest, who threw in the towel on May 30, 2022, also resigned from the church council as well as his membership of the organisation. Swiegelaar, in a live video broadcast on Facebook, said, “To be very honest, I initially thought I’d quietly slip out the backdoor and I didn’t think people would be so interested in why I do what I do.” According to him, he engaged in Satanism because it resonated with him at the time, and because he was “very sad and very broken, without realising it. I think a lot of people resonate at Satanism when they come from a very broken place.” He continued: “I have met thousands of Satanists over the past year and they are extremely hurt and broken— that’s the one thing they all have in common.” In tears, Swiegelaar added, “To this day, there have only been four Christians in my entire life who have shown me what unconditional love is.”” Adele Frey, one of the people who supported him, messaged him, saying she just did a simple thing by showing him love. Of this, he said: “People, showing love for others is everything. You showed me the love of Christ, I saw it in you.” He added that Frey showed him unconditional love at a time when he was an “ugly monster”, and when he adopted Christians who do that, stressing, “You showed me unconditional love.” In mid-May, Swiegelaar conducted his last interview as a member of the SASC on the CapeTalk radio station, not knowing it would be his last radio interview as an oldie. Swigelaar said in the interview that he did not believe that Jesus Christ existed. A lady from the radio team walked up to him after the interview and hugged him in a way he had never been