 Ahead of the up­coming Eid-el- Kabir celebra­tions, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC) has issued a public health advisory given the recent increase in COVID-19 cases in Nigeria and globally. An NCDC media release signed by Dr. Ifedayo Adeti­fa, Director General, NCDC noted that the public health advisory was issued follow­ing the need for religious organisations, community leaders and the Nigerians to guard against infection risk. The release partly reads, “This is based on the pre­vailing risk from the virus and the need for religious organisations, community leaders, and Nigerians, in general, to take necessary precautions ahead of the upcoming Eid-el-Kabir cel­ebrations.” According to the latest situation report from the World Health Organisa­tion (WHO), the number of weekly COVID-19 cas­es has increased globally for the third consecutive week. The statement further reads, “Similarly, our na­tional surveillance sys­tem has detected a grad­ual increase in the daily COVID-19 cases recorded in the country. “Although confirmed cases increased from 267 to 445 between weeks 21 to 24, hospitalisation and fa­talities have remained low suggesting these are mostly mild to moderate cases or we are in the lag phase be­fore we see the accompany­ing increase in severe dis­ease and hospitalisation. “Since Nigeria’s first case was detected on 27th February 2020, we have had 256,695 confirmed cases with 3,144 deaths across 36 states and the FCT.” POLL Genomic surveillance confirms Omicron and its various offspring (sub lineages) remain the dom­inant circulating variant of concern associated with the spread of the disease in the country. However, NCDC said that the recent increase in cases may be in part or whole due to increased testing over the last few weeks, increased circula­tion of Omicron sub-lin­eages (BA.4 and BA.5 as seen elsewhere). Others are increase in seasonal illness with cold and cough symptoms as well as poor adherence to preventive measures such as the use of masks.