AKURE – National Women leader of All Progressives Congress(APC), Dr Betta Edu, has organised free medical care for the people of Osun State from which no fewer than 1,000 women and children have benefitted. Addressing the people at Ijebu Jesa where the free medical care service took place, the APC Women leader explained that the exercise was put in place to complement the efforts of the state government toward ameliorating the people’s medical challenges. She promised that thousands of women and children would be examined and get free drugs across the state during the three-day free medicare exercise. Edu noted that the prevailing economic hardship in the country necessitated the gesture with a view to transforming the lives of the citizenry and massively mobilizing support for Governor Gboyega Oyetola’s second term in office and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as president come 2023. Edu said: “This is a continuation of activities that started in Zamfara State and we are moving across the country to assist and provide adequate health facilities for women across the country. “We have been in Osun State in the last three days, and Osun has witnessed impactful interventions from Medical outreaches to financial support for petty traders and farmers. “This is put in place to massively gather support and vote for Governor Gboyega Oyetola on Saturday for a second term in office and towards ensuring victory for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as president in  2023. “Medical doctors and consultants were engaged for the programme, while drugs have been procured and transport fares to patients. Adequate care for the health and well-being of Nigerian women and their children across the country is a necessity.” POLL The APC National Women leader further pledged to initiate more women-related programmes for the betterment of women folks across the country The Chairman of Oriade Local Government, Hon Bunmi Obeisun, implored philanthropists, organizations and politicians to emulate Dr Edu’s gesture in assisting the underprivileged to cushion the impact of the economic situation. Beneficiaries were offered services on medical check-ups for diabetes, hypertension, malaria and typhoid and consumables were administered to them.. Deputy national women leader, Hajiya Zainab Ibrahim and the South-West Zonal women leader, Chief (Mrs.) Yetunde Adesanya, Osun State APC Women Leader, Alhaja Kudirat Fakokunde were in company of Dr. Edu. Also on her entourage were the National President, Progressives Young Women Forum, Osamaye Seun Bosede, other  States Women Leaders, medical doctors, APC Women’s Wing and the APC  House of Representatives candidate, Hon. Seun Odofin.