Sergio Agüero is looking forward to watching Robert Lewandowski in a Barcelona shirt and thinks the club can “fight for everything” next season. The legendary Argentine striker, who finished his career at Barça but was forced to retire due to a heart problem, spoke to the media earlier this week when he visited the squad during their preseason training sessions in Miami, where Agüero currently resides following his retirement. Agüero spoke about Lewandowski’s arrival and is predicting lots of goals for the Polish superstar thanks to the talent around him and Xavi Hernández’s system. “Lewandowski is a top level number 9. He will give lots of goals to Barça. With the players there, if they associate well, I believe he will have many opportunities to score.” El Kun was also asked about the other signings made by Barça this summer, and thinks the squad is in much better shape than it was last season when he joined the club. Agüero has high hopes for Barça, and thinks the team can fight for the Champions League trophy either this season or next if things go according to plan. “When I arrived there weren’t many options and now the team is being put together very well, especially in midfield and attack. Barça can aspire for everything. “Obviously with a brand new team it is hard to fight to win the Champions League, but I believe the goal this season is to fight to the max and then next season, when the team is more settled, they will have many more possibilities.” Source: Mundo Deportivo It’s interesting that Agüero is tampering his expectations for Barça this season, and he knows very well from his experience as a player that it takes time for a team to come together. This will be Xavi’s first full season in charge, and there are a lot of changes to the squad still to come in the next couple of transfer windows. Winning La Liga should be a realistic goal, and not going out of Europe in embarrassing fashion should be a low bar to clear with this squad. The Champions League still feels like a dream more than an actual objective, but it doesn’t feel impossible anymore.