AWKA – Onitsha-North local government area has expressed profound gratitude to Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo for remembering the council area after  years of abandonment by previous administrations, following the inclusion of the deplorable Akpaka road and some other roads in the 2022 Revised Budget passed into law by the House of Assembly. The people of Onitsha-North local government area who expressed their appreciation to Governor Soludo through the lawmaker representing Onitsha-North one state constiuency Hon. Barr. Douglas Nwachukwu Egbuna, heaved a sigh of relief that the governor has indeed come to ameliorate the situation following the Herculean experience motorists faced plying Akpaka road in Onitsha. Douglas Nwachukwu Egbuna while speaking for Onitsha-North during legislative session, said the rehabilitation of Akpaka road near the Nigeria Correctional Centre which has been abandoned for decades was of utmost importance to the people. He said Anambra state witnessed a total collapse of Infrastructural amenities in the last administration. Egbuna also pointed out that another thing Ndi-Anambra witnessed in the last administration were outright misplacement of priorities which he said he was totally against. He said because he was a member of the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Assembly, they insisted that the Executive arm should furnish the committee with details of proposed road projects in the Revised Budget and their costs respectively. The lawmaker stated that he was happy that he was able to attract government to the deplorable conditions of Akpaka road which he said was captured in the budget. He said Akpaka road has been there for over 8 years and untouched by the last administration in spite of the fact that the road has been causing a lot of hardship to indigenes of Onitsha and non-indigenes alike. Egbuna said he was happy to have achieved that feat with the collaborations of the Senator representing Anambra-North senatorial district Sen. Stella Oduah, the federal lawmaker representing Onitsha-North and South federal constiuency Hon. Linda Ikpeazu as well as his Onitsha-North two constiuency counterpart Hon. Edward Obiefuna Ibuzo. He said, ” I was able to attract that road for my people and I am so happy that Akpaka road was captured in the governor’s loan request for infrastructural development. Although it is up to five roads generally in Onitsha but bottom line is that I am happy that I am instrumental to the inclusion of these roads in the governor’s priority list and I give God all the glory. POLL I want to encourage the Governor to do more in other areas of infrastructure to give Anambra a facelift and as well look into hospitals. Our general hospitals are in total decay. But the major thing is this road infrastructure. ”