The Executive Council of the Nigeria-British Chamber of Commerce, NBCC, last Thursday in Lagos vested its premium membership status on the country’s leading engineering construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc. The well-attended induction ceremony held at the headquarters of the NBCC, Lekki, Lagos. The induction ceremony kicked off promptly when the Deputy President of the NBCC and Chairman of the Chamber’s Membership Committee, Prince Bimbo Olashore who is also the Vice President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, introduced members of the NBCC’s Executive Council. Mrs Bisi Adeyemi, the NBCC’s President and Chairman of Council, thereafter, gave a formal welcome address to members, inductees and guests at the event. She congratulated the new members and urged them to take good advantage of the business networking opportunities that abound to their membership of the Chamber. Mr Ray Atelly, frpa, presented a brief history and structure of the NBCC to the gathering and new members were formally mentioned and given an opportunity to make a one-minute pitch on behalf of their companies. Julius Berger’s delegation to the event was led by the company’s Executive Director Administration, Alhaji Zubairu Ibrahim Bayi, Fniob. In his pitch for Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Bayi said: Since our business advent in Nigeria with the Eko Bridge Project in 1965, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, has remained at the forefront of the country’s engineering construction industry, continuously building on robust experience and strong technical development and innovation for the creation of long-term value and diversification of portfolios for clients, stakeholders and the general public.” Alhaji Bayi further said, “…that remains Julius Berger’s progressive mission, work and unwavering commitment to Nigeria’s development agenda.” Bayi who said Julius Berger’s premium membership of the NBCC itself is an investment, also prayed for more successes for the company by its membership of the Chamber.