EJIKEME OMENAZU, AKINWUNMI KING LAGOS – Some Nigerians have expressed anx­iety over the likely cost of keeping in power President Muhammadu Buhari who recently confessed that he was tired and would be to glad to retire to his Daura home. They noted that his continued stay despite being fagged out as he himself revealed would mean that the remaining days in power would be mere humdrum and Nigerians would then pay the price of drained leadership. Recall that President Buhari recently confessed that the Presidency was no lon­ger a tea party for him and that he was looking forward to the end of his tenure in order to take a rest from his exhausting official tasks. The Northern Elders, through Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, spokesman, had advised him after that confession to resign outright and pave the way for a more energetic and will­ing person to move in and lead the country away from its present descent. Several concerned citizens also wonder what could be done to help the president leave now since, as Baba-Ahmed pointed out, things might get terribly worse in the country in the next one year under the Bu­hari administration. Chief Martins Onovo, the 2015 presiden­tial candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), maintained that the cost of leaving an old, sickly and tired Gen. Buhari in office is enormous. Onovo, Head, Policy Positions, Move­ment for Fundamental Change (MFC), stat­ed that this problem is further complicated by what he termed the incompetence and corruption of the regime. POLL He stated: “While Buhari lacks the phys­ical and mental vigour required for the of­fice, the incompetence and corruption of the regime aggravates the situation. The very poor performance of the regime con­firms this position.” He maintained that in the seven years already spent by the regime, the adminis­tration has undermined national security, subverted democracy, disregarded the rule of law, destroyed national unity, destroyed the economy and promoted corruption. According to him, the Buhari adminis­tration has pushed Nigeria from a ‘Weak State’ to a ‘Failed State’, stressing, “For any day the regime remains in office, we run the risk of becoming a collapsed state.” On the economy, the levels of unemploy­ment, inflation and poverty are unprece­dented. On corruption, the regime has pro­moted corruption to its highest level ever and we have recorded our worst ranking in Transparency International’s ‘Corruption Perception Index’ (CPI) under this regime. “Under this regime, Nigeria moved from the 15th most fragile State to the 12th most fragile State in the ‘Fragile States Index’ (FSI). For any day the regime remains in office, we run the risk of sliding from a ‘Failed State’ to a ‘Collapsed State’. “For Gen. Buhari to leave now, we must restrict ourselves to the constitutional op­tions which include impeachment, medical incapacitation, and resignation. “Very many socio-cultural groups, re­ligious groups, political parties, labour unions, foreign magazines and Civil Soci­ety Organisations have all called on Gen. Buhari to resign but he has ignored all calls.” Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a People’s Dem­ocratic Party (PDP) chieftain in Imo State said that it is unfortunate that Buhari ad­mitted that he is tired of governing Nige­ria, adding, “Never anywhere in history has this self-indictment been recorded without the consequential resignation or impeachment.” Adikwuru stressed that the ruling APC government had wreaked havoc on the economy and people of Nigeria in the face of self-imposed and supervised heightened insecurity, fragmented into banditry, ter­rorism, kidnapping, killings of harmless and armless citizens especially of the Christian faith and deployment of herds­men across the length and breadth of the country. He lamented: “Sadly, we have a compro­mised legislature dulled by the inept, in­competent and lifeless Presidency hence the complete absence of the legislative arm of government is witnessed as under the military regime. “Not funny again, we have a sold out Ju­diciary whose autonomy is dictated by the Executive and so nothing comes to rescue from them. “It is clear that Nigeria’s erstwhile com­manding economy in Africa has collapsed under the Buhari APC government. Nige­ria, erstwhile united in diversity, is frag­mented, disjointed and separated in the reign of Islamic fundamentalism under the supervision of APC’s Buhari Presidency “Nigerian common man and the mass­es are suffering untold hardship and in­humanity in the face of Buhari’s failed state. If we have a functional legislature, the remedy would have been outright im­peachment of the failed president. “Allowing his continued stay in office poses a grave danger to the sustenance of one united and progressive Nigeria. This is the time for the legislature to act.” On his own, Tony Ademiluyi, a public affairs analyst, said that Buhari was over­rated in 2015 when he contested the Presi­dency for the fourth time, as he was seen as a messiah who would immediately tackle the hydra-headed monster of insecurity. He stressed that Buhari’s handlers re­galed the nation of tales of his chasing some Islamic zealots to Chad in the defunct Second Republic, even as he was seen as incorruptible and famously told the na­tion that he took a bank loan to purchase the nomination form for the presidential election. Ademiluyi stressed: “Having been in of­fice for seven years, corruption has been at an all-time high. There are allegations of a N170 billion theft against the former Accountant-General. “Medical tourism, which he promised to abolish, has seen him spend substantial time especially in the UK, for his medical needs and the Aso Rock Clinic was discov­ered not to have essential drugs despite the billions allocated to it. “His government has mortgaged the future of the unborn by humongous bor­rowings. The National Assembly has been reduced to a mere executive appendage. “With all these brazen and gross acts of incompetence, the National Assembly, as the true representatives of the people, should impeach him with immediate effect and save Nigerians the needless agony of one more year of misrule.” Rev. Dr. Francis Ujunwa Simeon, a La­gos-based cleric said that the parlous state of affairs in Nigeria had revealed the clue­lessness, helplessness and incompetence of the President and the Federal Government. Dr. Simeon International Secretary, Christian Association of Igbo Ministers Worldwide (CAIM), “The president is really overwhelmed and tired of the seemingly intractable, hydra-headed problems in the country. “Yet President Buhari has refused to re­sign despite repeated calls. In saner climes, he would have resigned because of non­performance. “The continued stay of the tired presi­dent in office is really costly to the nation. The huge amount of money and other per­quisites of office spent on the president will be like paying a humongous salary to a redundant staff member. That’s a waste of money. “Moreover, the more the tired president hangs on to power, the more the security situation, the economic woes and the ex­cruciating suffering of the people worsen.” According to him, “the choice open to the citizens is to intensify media exposure and opposition to the government’s failures with a view to kicking out the government through the ballot in next year’s polls.” Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, Nation­al Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), said the cost of keeping a tired President in office is the brazen acceptance of complete failure, “ if not, there is no reason keeping him, not to talk about the cost.” He added: “Some weeks ago, somebody posted on Facebook that Nigerians are counting his days as he too is also count­ing. So, this revelation seems to be a com­plete confirmation of what that patriotic Nigerian wrote on his wall. “What can be done to remedy the situa­tion is either he honorably resigns to have his name written in gold as the first to do so, as he will be the first who demystified incumbency, or the National Assembly follow due process and do the needful, if what Baba Ahmed said is true.” Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CRE­MA Initiative), maintained that the job of a President is a tasking one globally and that whoever is aspiring for such position knows it is not a piece of cake and should know the demands required, especially for Buhari who gave it a shot several times. He said: “The President’s utterances that he is ‘eager to leave’ smacks of a lead­er who lacks creativity, inspiring policies and lacking the ability to galvanise the nation to keep cheering him on against all odds because he is doing well and doing great. “The cost of keeping a tired president in office is grave and extremely damaging for the President himself, the nation and global impact – the tell-tale signs of a tired president have far reaching implications.” Barrister Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos-based lawyer, opined that Buhari had recently stated that he would leave a legacy of fight­ing corruption, describing the utterances as the greatest joke of the century. He said: “It is quite obvious that corrup­tion rate quadrupled during the current re­gime. Many cases abound, yet we’ve hardly heard of any conviction because majority of the culprits have been from the North­ern zone of the country.” Iheonu stressed: “If the President re­fuses to leave before his time and God still keeps him alive, the other option of removing him is by impeachment via the National Assembly.” Chief Dr. Emeka Kalu, Director General, Global Initiatives For Good Governance (GIGG), maintained that in governance, much is expected of the chosen or elect­ed leader to be proactive, agile, mentally conscious, energetic, focused and of robust healthy condition to be able to perform the functions of his constituted office effec­tively. Kalu stressed: “When a leader becomes weak due to either much pressures on his state of mind due to ageing condition or other confronting circumstances that make him unable to concentrate on his as­signed functions either as a President of a country or governor of a component state, the next line of action is for him or her to cheerfully resign. “Buhari has actually attested to the fact that the demands of his office as the Chief Security Officer of the Federation is tiring and that he would likely be end­ing his services to his fatherland. “This invariably shows that Mr. President has become weak and needs to be relieved of his duties by his Sec­ond-In-Command, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo.” He stressed that power at the centre is herculean to handle and once the Presi­dent is confirmed to be weak in the dis­charge of his duties, it is not wrong for him to willingly resign or the National Assembly getting the apparatus of the law to relieve him of his duties. Kalu added: “Nigeria cannot continue to be in mess of under development, economic meltdown, dysfunctional bureaucracy, rang­ing from red-tapism and administrative in­efficiency as a result of the inability of the sitting President to function actively in his calls of duty.” On his part, a member of the Federal House of Representatives, Mufutau Eg­berongbe, said it was unfortunate that a group that had always defended the Pres­ident, would come out in the open and ask him to resign. Egberongbe, who is representing Apapa Federal Constituency in the lower Cham­ber of the National Assembly, pointed out that if the ACF could call for the President’s resignation, that goes to show that they are fed up. “If they are calling for resignation of the President, that should tell you that they are fed up with his government. Everyone is affected by everything that is going on in the country. So, the Arewa Consultative Forum cannot pretend not to be affected by the sit­uation, hence their reason for speaking out. “The President, for me, should be left to serve out his remaining days in office, he has just less than a year in office, so he should not be forced to resign. For him to have said that he can’t wait to leave office, all of us should understand the gravity of such a statement. It means that the Presi­dent overwhelmed,” Egberongbe added. Also, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Olumuyiwa Jimoh in his reac­tion said it was good that Arewa Consulta­tive Forum decided to stop being sentimen­tal and tribalistic. Jimoh said before now, the group had always defended everything the President does and now they have also come out to attack him and asking him to resign. It is good that their eyes are opening.”