The present administration in Oyo State under the leadership of Engineer Seyi Makinde has stated that it is committed to achieving an even development of all the zones in Oyo State not only through infrastructural developments, but also by facilitating human capital development. This was stated by the Executive Assistant to the governor on Administration, Reverend Idowu Ogedengbe, while hosting the management team of MAX NG, Yamaha and Moto Business Service Nigeria Limited (MBSN) at the Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Ibadan. He noted that while Max NG is diversifying into other areas like Electric Motor Vehicle leasing in addition to its Motorcycle and Tricycle leasing businesses, the company should also be looking at extending its operational base and coverage area beyond Ibadan in order to complement the effort of the present administration towards achieving an accelerated and even development of Oyo State. “We want to stem the spate of rural-urban migration in the State by taking development to every nook and cranny of Oyo State. When our young people in other zones outside of Ibadan are able to be productively engaged by having means of livelihood, for example through the transport sector and other sectors of our economy, their proclivity towards moving to Ibadan will significantly be curtailed” he emphasised. According to the governor’s aide “We also want to ensure that our young people are able to have modern technical skills that will enable them to repair any of the Yamaha products in the market by being trained under the Yamaha Technical Academy in addition to the training of drivers under the Yamaha Drivers Academy.” Ogedengbe further stated that in addition to the establishment of their Motorcycle and Tricycle Assembly Plant in the State, there is the need for Yamaha to also have a plant where it could manufacture spare parts domestically without having to import every small piece of equipment needed for the maintenance of the various vehicle products. “We must seek to reduce our reliance on importation, especially where production of materials could be achieved within the country. Our huge importation bill has been a major factor affecting the value of the naira. We would therefore need Yamaha and other companies to seek ways on how we can stem this negative trend,” he said. POLL Earlier in his remarks, the team leader (MAX, Yamaha, MBSN) Mr. Adetayo Bamiduro said the team will collaborate with the State Government in creating mass awareness of Government policies as well as in the training and -training of drivers, technicians, and operators in the transportation industry. The company stated that it is introducing electric two and three-wheelers as well as motor vehicles to promote a more eco-friendly environment.