BENIN – Edo Civil Society Organization (EDOSCO) has urged parties to always embrace peaceful dialogue in the resolution of conflicts and misunderstandings for healthy coexistence among them and development of society. The chairman of EDOSCO, Mr Augustine Enabulele, said this at a one-day seminar, his group  organised in collaboration with an environment campaign group, Voice of the Earth Initiative (VOTE). The seminar, which was held at Udo, near Iguobazuwa, in Ovia South West local government area of Edo, had as its theme “Sustainable Development and Security”. Various stakeholders from surrounding communities, security agencies such as the DPO from the Nigeria Police Force, Iguobazuwa, and the Commandant Edo State Security and Vigilante Network, as well as management from the Okomu Oil Palm company Plc attended the discourse. Enabulele, who underscored the element of peaceful living among people, noted that host communities would not benefit from companies in their domains in an insecure and acrimonious environment. He also called for the sustenance of the implenentation of resolutions reached recently between management of Okomu oil company and the communities, especially with Marioghioba (AT&P), in the interest  of lasting peace. Earlier, Mr Ajele Sunday, spokesperson for VOTE, in his opening address, said the seminar was in furtherance of an earlier peace meeting midwifed by the Iyase of Udo, Chief Patrick  Igbinidu along with heads of security agencies and concerned stakeholders on May 4, 2022. According to Ajele, the meeting was organised to ensure that companies especially Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc and its host communities live harmoniously without any report of infringement by the communities and the company. POLL During interactive session, participants acknowledged and appreciated Okomu oil company’s execellent corporate social responsibility(CRS) programmes, which they said dotted all communities under the company’s footprint, including those of Marioghionba AT&P, Okomu, Markilolo and Udo communities The participants, drawn from the different host communities listed some of the CRS projects sited in their communities as schools, town halls, bursaries, roads, boreholes, markets, amongst others. Like Oiver twist, while the communities requested for more, they applauded the company’s gesture and were unanimous of the fact that “communities have received these laudable projects where government has failed, in over the past 10 years of the company’s CSR programme.” Mr Friday Aragua, the Chairman of Udo Community, who noted  that Marioghinoba Community, being  a village under the watch of the Iyase, should learn to listen and abide with resolutions reached from any peace meeting convened by the traditional head. “Therefore, it behooves upon Udo community alone to resolve an issue emanating from the community, as we have done in this case. Mr Festus Usualele also from Udo Community, further questioned the essence of the seminar and wondered if the NGO was trying to close the company. He queried why the NGO did not proffer solutions to the constant stealing of the company’s products by elements within the neighbouring communities. The Communication Officer for Okomu, Mr Fidelis Olise, cautioned organizations and individuals to learn to refrain from the habit of inciting the people against the company, saying issues should be put in proper perspective for healthy coexistence rather than trying to skew information to cause disaffection among the people. On his part, Chief Responsibility Officer, Josemaria Escriva Foundation, Dr Jude Obasanmi, urged communities and Okomu Oil Company to work toward building an expected long-term engagement to drive the greatest impact. Obasanmi, who was represented by Dr. Bright Oniovokukor posited: “On the part of the company, the management must do all within its power to show benevolence and not exploit the community just to maximize profit considering that the day the community discovers this, their accumulated profit cannot compensate for the consequences. “Community/company relationship has mutual responsibility and benefits hence all parties must play their roles accordingly. Parties should consult and seek clarification where necessary, he declared.”