BENIN – Mabel Oboh, the governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), in the Edo State 2020 gubernatorial election who dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic Party PDP soon after losing the election has again returned to the party. Oboh said her two years of political romance with the PDP could not satisfy her political hunger and passion, both of which are built around service to the underprivileged and vulnerable, reaching fellow everyday women and the youth with solutions to their challenges and given them a voice. Oboh who announced her return to the ADC in a statement in Benin stated that she has now realized that ADC which has been her political home for several years was the only grassroots political party that had the philosophy and policies that aligned with these aspirations. According to her, after the 2020 Edo State governorship election in which I was privileged to fly the party’s flag, I sought to explore another platform to pursue my passion for service. “However, in the short period I have been away, it became obvious that the ADC kit is home to me and my passion and it took some time to reminisce on the basic principles of ADC, which align with my ideals of what politics should be. “Without institutions and individuals that believe in the people and are ready to serve, democracy becomes a term, concept or study in academic settings. “I have returned home to ADC, the party that has always given room to different ideas and a chance for everyone to cross-fertilize goals, the kind of intercourse that produces leaders and pushers of people-oriented practical service,” she said. The former governorship candidate also announced that at ADC, she would henceforth be handling the office of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I), pointing out that “in politics and nation-building, diversity and inclusion are ‘keynotes’ especially, in a nation like ours that is naturally diversified”. POLL “The objectives of this office include, but are not limited to, building relationships among the various strata that make up the party; driving the party’s philosophy and ideals across the nation with a focus on the important needs of the people, that usually affect the ignored Nigerians. “Furthermore, engaging frequently with the electorate and building a sustained interface between members across the country with the goal of an all-inclusive nation will also be the objective of my new office at ADC,” she declared.