***Reiterates Ban On Sale Of Rams Along Roads, Highways As the Sallah celebration approaches, the Lagos State Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources has called on residents to maintain cleanliness and safety as their watchword throughout the festive period. A statement signed by the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, urged Lagosians to respect the environment and dispose of all animal waste properly during the festivities. He said that all waste generated through the slaughtering of rams and other animals, as well as waste from food items, must be properly discarded through bagging and placement at designated points, warning Lagosians against dumping the waste into drains to later cause flooding. The Commissioner added that sanitation workers and waste managers would all be on duty during the period and beyond. “It is not unexpected that there will be an increase in generated waste during and after the Sallah festival. Therefore, our Sanitation Intervention Programme with the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) is still on course to rid Lagos of indiscriminate refuse dumping”, he stated. He said that the administration of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu would continue to be at the forefront of the campaign for a healthy and cleaner environment, encouraging Lagosians to desist from acts that could have negative impacts on the environment. Bello reminded Lagosians that the law against street trading is still in force, including the display of rams for sale on major highways, road medians, lay-bys, gardens and parks across the State. -Advertisement- POLL His words: “While it is a common activity for some traders to take advantage of the season to display and sell rams, this must be done at designated markets without defacing the environment, affecting traffic or compromising the wellbeing of Lagosians”. Felicitating Muslim residents in Lagos, Bello urged Lagosians to guard against the outbreak of epidemics by ensuring that wastes are handled in the most appropriate way without defacing the aesthetics of the State.