CELESTINE AMOKE More than 200 parishioners of St. Paul Catholic Church, Ibafo, have been commissioned to go into the world to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. The commissioning came on Sunday, June 26, 2022, at the end of a nine-week teachings and instructions on living life in the spirit which began on April 24, 2022. Speaking at the commissioning during the Holy Mass, the Parish Priest and Dean of Ibafo Deanery, Rev. Fr. Joseph Akinlotan, thanked God that the Life in the Spirit Seminar had ended and that the parish should have new disciples and followers after their commissioning after the Mass. He said those for commissioning were those who could work so that the parish could grow pastorally and spiritually. “I hope and pray that these new battery of workers will dispose themselves to the workings of the Holy Spirit and engage themselves in various areas of parish life. “We thank God for three of our sisters who have volunteered to teach our children catechism and sacraments. We as parents should encourage the children the more so they can receive the blessings of God. “On July 31, we shall have 17 new communicants who will join in the eating of the sacred meal of Jesus, the meal of salvation. This shows that our parish is richly blessed and we can continue to be blessed to do God’s work,” he said. -Advertisement- POLL Rev. Fr. Akinlotan said the day’s readings pointed to the importance of discipleship and presented how the message of the gospel had been passed on from generation to generation from the beginning. He said that the message of salvation must go from one generation to the next and that the teaching of the faith must be passed on, hence those mandated to carry out the commission must be aware of certain characteristics of discipleship God wants. “It is the Church that commissions you today and it is a serious obligation you are taking upon yourself,” he said. He charged those to be commissioned to always be extremely patient and calm, adding, “In your responsibility of passing on the message, you must not be rash and judgmental. You must have the willingness to give people opportunity of second time. “The spirit of discernment you must have. You must be prayerful to know that all that glitters is not gold, and for you to have the spirit of discernment, you must fast once in a while because the spirit needs a disciplined body. “You should be a radical zealot. You must be different from others. You must be full of zeal to pass on the message. You must not be a partial person.” Rev. Fr. Akinlotan had at the beginning of the seminar explained that essentially every baptised person is charismatic in nature and that without baptism one cannot be charismatic. “He said: “Baptism gives you character to be charismatic. You share in the priesthood of Christ and that is why you share in his prophetic ministry. Without Baptism, you can do nothing.” He said the essence of the ‘Life in the Spirit Seminar’ was held to enable one to choose between the characters one had in Baptism to help one to be a good Christian, to be a good Catholic; to draw one closer to God; to make one more prayerful and spiritual; to be holier, and to be a better Catholic.