The Academic Staff Union Of Universities (ASUU), Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) Branch has described untrue claims by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige that Medical lecturers at the university were at work. ASUU-UDUS in a statement jointly signed and delivered by M.N Almustapha, Branch Chairperson and S. A. Sadiku, Branch Secretary lamented that the Minister had ‘characteristically (as always) misinformed and disinformed Nigerians about the actual state of the ASUU-FGN reconciliation effort’. The union during the press conference wondered how many such untrue statements Dr Nguge has told President Muhammed Buhari, saying the concoctions were pitiable and shameful. The union alleged the Minister had during an interview granted to Arise TV said, “Medical lecturers are at work, they are teaching. Sokoto has graduated their medical students, they are reasonable people, they have tested the strike, and saw that it produces no result, yes they did it the last time. “So, today, they have written, their Vice Chancellor has approved that they are at work. The labour Controllers in those states have also confirmed that they are at work and I have advised the Finance Minister and they are processing their payments”. The union described Dr Ngige’s claims as the imagination of the Minister, saying, ” This intentional misinformation and treachery, against the sensibility of Nigerians, are already known to many as the characteristics of Dr Ngige. “His manner of narrative during the interview depicts his inhumane nature and wanton disregard for the truth, honesty and integrity, a character unbefitting of a Federal Minister. “How could a Senior Minister of the Federal Republic, who is supposed to be an elder statesman, continue to dish out such disinformation to over 200 million Nigerians, knowing fully well that he was not saying the truth. POLL “The question at this juncture is, how many of such untrue statements has he told the President about the negotiations and how will he continue to tell such fabricated stories before Nigerians? What would be the magnitude of damage he has caused the education system of this Nation by such un-statesmanly comments? “Is Dr Ngige not aware that it does not add up that the said lecturers have done their job, yet they have not been paid their salaries for such job, or is he cunningly portraying his Government as an unfair one? To put the record straight, the union explained that the entire members of the ASUU-UDUS Branch, including the College of Health Sciences, are fully on a total and comprehensive strike which commenced on the 14th of February, 2022 and has never had the intention of calling it off until the Federal Government wakes up to its responsibilities. It added, “Contrary to the claims of Dr Ngige, there is no letter written by the Vice Chancellor of Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto or any of his representatives or any Union officials, depicting that the Medical Lecturers are not on strike to any agency of government from UDUS.” The union in its submissions called on the Federal Government of Nigeria, to as a matter of urgency, take necessary action and call the Minister to order before his lies further plunge this nation into serious crisis. It added that the University has not graduated any student since the commencement of the strike action in February 2022.