***AS FCT, Enugu, Anambra Top Performing States In PHC Delivery ***Zamfara Declared Worst Performing State In PHC Delivery ABUJA – A recent report from The ONE Campaign, National Advocates for Health, Nigeria Health Watch, Public & Private Development Centre (PPDC), and other partners has revealed that health systems in 18 Nigerian states are weak, resulting in poor healthcare service delivery, especially in public facilities. The report which was released at stakeholder event on Tuesday in Abuja provides an in-depth and systemic review of the implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), compliance of the states with the National Health Act and National Health Policy, and a ranking of health system performance reveals the state of primary healthcare delivery across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The research also makes recommendations for how state governments should improve the BHCPF’s current implementation, reinforce their vulnerable health systems, and raise strategic and operational planning for health in order to increase access to and consumption of primary healthcare services. The Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) was created in 2014 by the National Health Act to address budget shortages impeding the effective delivery of primary healthcare nationwide. One percent of the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) of the federal government and additional contributions from other financial sources make up the BHCPF. It is made to facilitate the effective provision of primary healthcare services, the provision of a basic minimum set of health services (BMPHS), and the provision of emergency medical treatment (EMT) to all Nigerians. Unveiling the report, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Sen. Ibrahim Oloriegbe said there is the need for continuous oversight to ensure that the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) works for Nigerians. POLL He said, “We have recorded successes at the federal level because of the independence and the interdependence between the executive and the legislative arms of government and because the National Assembly has been able to perform its oversight functions. This must be replicated across the different state houses. It is also important for citizens to join in this advocacy and call on their state governments to release appropriate funds and ensure adequate monitoring of the funds to improve public health facilities, especially the primary health centers. We must ensure medical supplies and the required human resources are available. ” With the multi-structure design of healthcare, evidence suggests that governance and leadership can play a pivotal role in improving healthcare in Nigeria. Similarly, the ONE Campaign’s Nigeria Director, Stanley Achonu, said: “Weak governance continues to pose a major obstacle to improved healthcare delivery. It hampers efficiency and effectiveness and results in weak infrastructure, poor user experiences, and poor health outcomes. The burden of strengthening the healthcare systems and services lies heavily on governance and leadership. At all levels, the government needs to take responsibility as a building block of the health system, especially in system design, policy guidance, oversight, regulation, accountability, coalition building, monitoring, and enforcement. The success recorded with polio eradication, containment of Ebola and the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that Nigeria can deliver on critical health issues given the required political will and leadership commitment. We have to act quickly to avert primary healthcare collapse.” Also, the Chairman of National Advocates for Health Group, Hon. Muhammad Usman, called on the government to provide the required leadership to ensure that primary healthcare is improved across the country. According to him, “The Federal Government must ensure timely release of funds allocated for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund and effective utilization of the same at the sub-national level to improve primary health care performance nationwide.” On how the report will impact the health sector, Vivianne Ihekweazu, the Managing Director of Nigeria Health Watch, said: “This report helps us understand where we are, the opportunities and gaps in state-level healthcare delivery. As partners, we are determined to disseminate the findings widely and use them to hold policymakers, especially at the subnational level, accountable for improvements in healthcare delivery for all Nigerians.” As part of its recommendations, the report proposes that states should provide political leadership for establishing a State Health Insurance Agency, develop an electronic workforce registry at the state level, support management of human resources for health, and develop a health system-wide accountability and performance management framework. Meanwhile, ONE Campaign Ambassador, Waje Iruobe said she has witnessed the impact of poor health services on the lives of ordinary Nigerians; I have met families who lost mothers and wives during childbirth, shared in their grief, cried with them, and mourned with them. According to her: “I have also visited Primary Healthcare facilities and was shocked by the state of facilities and equipment. However, one thing that gave me hope was the resilience of the fantastic health workers I met who work tirelessly against all odds. And I have committed to raising my voice to advocate for improved primary health care service delivery. This is why my partnership with ONECampaign is borne out of my passion for improving, an important pillar inlifting Nigerians out of extreme poverty. “Undoubtedly, Nigeria has made significant strides over the last few years, especially with the successful containment of Ebola and the COVID-19 pandemic. And that is why I see this report as a catalyst for stimulating more change within Nigeria’s healthcare sector, particularly in the delivery of BasicPrimary Healthcare. “The journey to improving quality health outcomes for all Nigerians, especially the poor and vulnerable, requires a firm commitment from all stakeholders, including our leaders. I dare say that today’s gathering is a realization of the need to do more, track our health progress as a nation, monitor implementation, spot gaps and proffer solutions”, she added.