LAGOS  – Former Special Assistant to the Former Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Engr. Ernest Ndukwe, Barr. Ayoola Oke has stated that over ninety percent of home grown telecoms operators may go bust within the next five years. The ICT Legal and Regulatory Expert, who spoke to newsmen on the issues affecting the local operators yesterday in Lagos, said the bigger telecoms operators are suffocating the local ones. Oke described the industry as subdivided into three tiers, with tier 1 for big network operators Mobile Network Operators (GSM); Starcomms, MTS 1st Wireless, Intercellular, Startech and the likes belonging to tier 2 and smaller operators such as Internet service providers, PNLs, International Data Access Service Providers, Swift Telephone networks, Rainbownet and the likes for Tier 3. He further stated that none of the local operators in Tier 3 have been able to grow to become Tier 2 operators because they are dying, adding that the country would be left with a tier 1 Oligopoly if the home grown operators eventually die out. The former Special Assistant cited the instance of bigger operators asking smaller operators to pay for termination rate in dollars rather than the country’s legal tender which is the naira and consequently leading to their disconnection. “It is not a prophesy; if certain regulatory steps are not taken and things not done the way it should, more than 90 percent of home grown local telecoms operators will probably all die out in the next 5 years like what happened to tier 1 operators in the past 14 years and that will be terrible for the country and consumers. “From the way the industry is structured now, the bigger operators are suffocating the industry. “The industry is divided into three (3)- Big Network operators (Tier 1), Tier 2 ( Operators like Starcomms, Multilinks and the likes) and Tier 3 ( small operators such as Internet service providers, Data access service providers, Swift telephone networks, rainbow net. POLL “None of the ones in Tier 3 have been able to grow to become tier 2 because they are dying. “Once they all die out, we will be left with oligopoly, where the few big operators, mostly originally foreign owned and controlled companies will dominate the market to the detriment of the country. “Meanwhile, such is an illegality and a contravention of the provisions Section 15 and 20 of the Central Bank of Nigeria Act. Section 20 of the CBN Act expressly criminalising demand “Due to this, small operators are for flimsy reasons without the nobeing disconnected by big operators tice of the NCC,” he said. Oke proposed asymmetric regulations whereby the Commission controls the big operators more so that their weights won’t crush smaller operators. Ayoola, who hailed the Commission’s dominance and significant market power, asked that they should be more proactive conducting timely investigations on big operators whenever they disconnect smaller operators. “Federal Government should come up with policy restrictions and regulatory steps. “NCC did well when it did dominance and significant market power which purpose was to subject those companies to asymmetric regulations. “NCC should do more asymmetric regulations whereby they would impose more regulatory controls and obligations on the big operators so that their weights won’t crush small operators,” he said.