ISAAC ASABOR Baking industries producing bread, a major staple food in Nigeria are currently shutting down operations in some parts of the country following the high cost of essential ingredients including flour, sugar and other items. It was observed that some bakeries in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had already shut down since May 2021, and resorted to other businesses following constant surge in bags of flour and sugar. In fact, as at July 1, 2022, no fewer than 40 bakeries have shut down in Abuja, over high cost of production and multiple taxation. Some of the bakeries that have closed shop are Abumme Bakery Ltd. Lugbe, Airports Road, Hamdala Bakery, Kuje, Harmony Bite Bakery, Karu, Doweey Delight Bakery Ltd, Kubwa. Others include Merit Baker, Mpape, Funez Baker, Orozo, Slyz Bakery, Wuse Zone 2, among others. Mr. Ishaq Abdulraheem, the Chairman, Abuja Master Bakers, FCT said bakeries in Abuja could no longer cope with the high cost of production. He said that most members had lost their means of livelihood, while workers had been out of job due to the shutdown. -Advertisement- POLL He called on the Federal Government to quickly intervene and check agencies of government frustrating bakery business. He identified some of the agencies to include National Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), National Environmental Standards and Regulations, Enforcement Agency (NESREA). He said that the six Area Councils in FCT had also made business very unpleasant and difficult for bakery with huge taxes and tenement rates. An Abuja baker, Mr Nuhu Musa of Hamdala Bakery, Kuje based in FCT appealed to government to regulate the activities of these agencies so reduce the different taxes they imposed on bakers. Musa said many bakeries were struggling to survive due to high cost of production. “We want government to regulate these agencies so that our production process will be easy. “These taxation are negatively impacting on our business to the extent that many of us have closed down. “This is also affecting employment as many bakery workers are out of work presently and you know the effect of that on the society; some will turn to criminality,’’ he said. Musa said for instance, NAFDAC will come to their bakeries to check for certificates, while SON will come for the registration of the product. “How much are we making to warrant all these checking and payments,’’ he said. Some of the Abuja residents who spoke with NAN decried the high cost of bread in the market, stressing that bread was gradually becoming the food for the rich. Mr. Julius Anthony, a resident said that some of the breads he usually bought for N500 per loaf now cost as much as N1, 000. Miss Aisha Danjuma, another resident of FCT called on the government to immediately intervene over the high cost of bread, adding “bread is the food for the masses and must not be taken away from them.’’ As a result of the closure which has been systematic, prices of bread; depending on the size, in some parts of the country had previously witnessed increments despite decrease in quality and quantity by bakers who complained of running at losses due to the surge in materials. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that a loaf hitherto sold at N400 is currently been marketed between N600 and N700, worsening the hardship imposed on Nigerians following the economic and security crisis bedeviling the entire nation at the moment. Finding also reveals that a 50kg bag of flour by brand cut across the following. Golden penny is been sold from N12,000 – N15,000, Dangote flour from N13,000 – N14,000, Honeywell flour fromN12,000 – N14,000 and Mama Gold flour from N13,500 – N14,000. Similarly, a bag of sugar which was sold at the rate of N13, 000 in late 2020 currently has Dangote Sugar of 50kg bag category selling for N24,000.00. Speaking with Journalists at a parley recently, Chief Executive Officer of a popular bakery in Delta State, Mandela Makinde said he has shut down his company till further notice, stressing that he had been running at a loss for months. According to him, the price of flour increases on a weekly basis, stressing that he lost over N300, 000 in September last year while trying to keep the business afloat. He hinted on alleged moves by some bakery owners in the state to resort to substandard way of producing breads in the bid to continue the business. According to him, “We have basically ran at a loss for almost a year now, and we have been keeping it open with personal funds just so my workers would have a job while I thought there would be change, but at this moment we have no other choice than to shut down. “I am currently at the bakery and nothing is going on. We have suspended all activities here pending when the price of flour reduces. “The price of flour and other ingredients have consistently continued to rise since the beginning of this year. As a CEO, I don’t have a single flour now because the last time I went to the market, the price they gave me was too high and I couldn’t afford it. Asked if there is a plan to further increase the price of bread, he said “it is an individual business, so you cannot actually fix the price of bread because it is a competitive market. If your price is higher than every other person’s own, customers will go for the cheaper ones. Speaking on reasons for the constant increments, the CEO said; “Since wheat importers started to source their forex from the black market, the price of flour has continued to rise”. He called on the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to investigate some bakeries, alleging that some of them use ‘Bromate and Saccharine’, products considered to be harmful to health. “Many have played with volume in order to keep the price steady, some are beginning to add dangerous items such as ‘Bromate and Saccharine’ to keep their prices low”. Similarly, Mr Adebayo Ayomide, a bakery owner in Bwari Area Council, FTC Abuja told Journalists that he has converted the bakery to a mini poultry due to the constant surge in price of flour. He said: “Before I shut down the bakery recently, I was already indebted. What I usually do was to go to the market and get the flour from the seller then pay him after selling the bread but unfortunately, I was no longer making even the capital not to talk of profit. I had to stop and look for alternative. “The country is so hard right now that relatively, nothing is working. Even this poultry, the chicken feed is very expensive and that is why you see that the price of egg is always increasing”. Speaking to the press in Abuja, a bread consumer, Miss Jennifer lamented the level of hardship currently bedeviling the masses saying no food is presently affordable to the poor. “Gone are the days when some food items like garri, bread were seen as poor man’s food. Now, both the rich and the poor are struggling for the items. “The money is not there, common bread that you can just eat with soft drinks to quench hunger is no longer there, garri is not affordable, rice is never a poor man’s food so what do we do? “The moment you begin to think that things will get better, you will just hear something worse. How did we get here? And the major problem in this country is that nothing goes up and comes down. The development may worsen the prevailing unemployment challenge in the country as many employees of the bakeries shutting down across the country would be pushed to the streets as jobless people. Given the foregoing situation, not few respondents spoken to by DAILY INDEPENDENT were unanimous in their views that bread scarcity looms as bakeries are shutting down over rising cost of production.