LAGOS – Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of a Domestic Violence Sexual and Special Offences Court, Ikeja, on Thursday sentenced Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James, otherwise known as Baba Ijesha to 16 years imprisonment over sexual assault. Delivering the judgement, Justice Taiwo sentenced him after he was found guilty of four-count out of six-count charge brought against him by the Lagos State government. The convict was sentenced to five years imprisonment for count two, three years for count three, five years for Count 4 and three years for count five. “The judge further ruled that the sentence is to run concurrently. The state had through his Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Dr. Babajide Matins, filed six counts bordering on indecent treatment of a child, sexual assault, attempted sexual assault by penetration and sexual assault by penetration against the defendant. While delivering judgment, Justice Taiwo held that the state failed to prove counts one and six of the charge. Baba Ijesha was exonorated of offence of sexual by penetration which deals with allegedly sexually assaulting the minor by penetration with his car key seven years ago and attempted sexual assault by penetration during another encounter with the minor in April 2021. The court found him guilty and convicted him on: indecent treatment of child and sexual assault of a minor between 2013 and 2014. POLL The court held that the prosecution successfully proved counts 2 and 3 that he indecently placed the survivor on his laps and rubbed his penis on her body. He was also found guilty of Counts 4 and 5, where he was accused of indecently touching the same minor and sexually assaulting her seven years later by rubbing her body and sucking her fingers. The court held that defendant confessed that he molested the girl in 2021. “The court can convict a person based on his confessions. The defendant was consistent in his admission in the two videos. “The pain of the first prosecution witness (Damilola Adekoya Princess) was real. The girl was scared and we could see the fears in her eyes while she was giving her evidence before the court. She was compelled to make her evidence. “The argument of the defence that the prosecution failed to state the exact age of the survivor cannot stand as the law states that anyone under the age of 18 years is regarded as a child. “The defendant may not have the thought of having sex with the survivor on that day but he aroused her by sucking her fingers and rubbing her body. He did not take off his clothes while arousing her. “I hereby found the defendant guilty of Count Two to Five and he is discharged of Counts one and six. The defendant is hereby sentenced to five years imprisonment for Count two, three years for count three, five years for Count 4 and three years for Count five.” The sentence is to run concurrently starting from the day he was convicted. The court held that the review of medical expert, the testimony of the two witnesses, forensic analyst and child expert, Mrs. Olabisi Ajayi-Kayode and a medical doctor, Dr. Aniekan Makanjuola, that there was blunt penetration of the virginal but they cannot ascertain the time. The prosecution during the trial called six witnesses including the survivor, the mother of the victim (princess), investigation officers and medical experts.