Countdown to the 2023 general elections, the former Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Niger State, Jonathan Tsado Vatsa over the weekend visited former Governor Babangida Aliyu at his private residence in Minna. The visit by Jonathan Vatsa, who is the current Coordinator, Public Affair to, Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello has raised dust as many believed their talks which lasted for close to two hours may not be unconnected with the forthcoming governorship election and the need to ensure balanced political equation for the good of the greater percentage of Nigerlites. Though details of the discussion between Vatsa and former Governor Aliyu, who are meeting for the first time since he left office in 2015 was not known, feelers had it that it may not be unconnected with decisions being taken by the various political parties against the next years’ polls. Visitors to the home of the former number one citizen were however curious seeing, that Vatsa who had also served as Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism under the current dispensation pay an unscheduled visit to his once, ‘political enemy’. Their curiosity was based on the fact that Jonathan Vatsa, the then state Publicity Secretary of the APC, had been a staunch critic of former Governor Babangida Aliyu’s administration in the run-off to the 2015 general election which the ruling party eventually won. A Series of Media wars waged by the controversial political activist in Niger state largely contributed to the unseating of the then Babangida Aliyu-led Peoples Democratic (PDP) government, and the coming into power by the Abubarkar Sani Bello who once served as Commissioner under the Aliyu administration. Unconfirmed reports had it that the meeting between the once two opposition political leaders is to chart a course that would not only ensure a peaceful Governorship election but that the wrong people don’t get the opportunity to get into positions and use same to threaten peaceful coexistence amongst the various ethnic nationalities in the state. Vatsa who was full of smiles as he was received by former Governor Aliyu at his Tunga residence on a Sallah day, in an interview however denied that the conspicuous and surprise visit has nothing to do with next year’s general elections or the state Governorship race. However describing Dr Babangida Aliyu as his brother, Vatsa said, “I am here to pay Sallah homage to the former governor who I have so much respect for. No matter the political differences, He was my former governor and a political leader in the state. Politics is not meant to separate us but to unite us for the general good of our society”. Vatsa also said, “No matter how bad the situation might look like at the moment, I am still a member of the APC, my visit to Babangida Aliyu has no political undertone, after-all some APC governors visited Governor Nyesom Wike of River State for the same Sallah visit in Port-Harcourt recently and heaven did not fall”.