The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has promised to address the situation of electricity supply in its network, while its customers lament inadequate power supply and estimated billings. Dr. Tinuade Sanda, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Eko Disco, made the disclosure during a customer forum held in Ajah and Ibeju. She assured customers that the management was aware of the issues affecting power supply in the areas and has thus organised the platform to address the situation. The Chief Finance Officer, Mr. Joseph Esenwa, represented her at the event. “on behalf of the MD/CEO of Eko Disco, I would like to appreciate your support for our company as we cannot be in business without you, our esteemed customers. We have come here today to listen to your challenges, resolve them as our customer service team is on the ground, and the one we cannot resolve here today will be surely addressed by our management team at your districts or the head office.” Some of the customers and the representatives of various Community Development Associations (CDAs) in Ajah and Ibeju explained the challenges affecting the electricity supply in their respective communities. Most complaints were about the inadequate power supply, while others were about metering, estimated billing, and safety issues within the company’s network. Esenwa appealed to the customers and explained that while some of the complaints raised are peculiar to EKEDC, many were due to general issues affecting electricity supply in the nation. On the issue of inadequate supply of power, the CFO POLL He said that the Disco, in recent times, does not get its due allocation of supply from the national grid as a result of low generation of power, and manages the insufficient one it gets from the grid. He, however, informed the customers about the ongoing efforts to resolve the situation such as the CBN loans for Capex projects to TCN and Discos, which will ensure procurement and rehabilitation of many electricity infrastructures to Esenwa advised the customers to key into the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme to get prepaid meters. He also announced the commencement of mobile metering within the company’s network and assured customers that the exercise will get to their areas in due time.