Abuja – President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday in Daura, Katsina State, lashed out on the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), telling them enough is enough on their industrial action. According to Buhari, they should find a place to reconsider their position on the prolonged strike, expressing worry that the hiatus will have generational consequences on families, the educational system and future development of the country. The president, who received some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC), legislators and political leaders at his residence, said the strike had already taken a toll on the psychology of parents, students and other stakeholders, throwing up many moral issues that already beg for attention. President Buhari noted that the future of the country rests on the quality of educational institutions and education, while assuring that the government understands their position, and negotiations should continue, with students in lecture halls. Recall that ASUU and other unions within the university system have been on strike for over five months in protest for a number of agreements allegedly breached by the government. While ASUU insists that government must pay its emoluments through the Universities Transparency Accountability System (UTAS), government says all university workers must key into the Integrated Personnel Payrolls and Information System (IPPIS). ASUU is also prevailing on government to redeem its pledge regarding universities revitalisation to boost infrastructures. But reacting Buhari said, “We hope that ASUU will sympathise with the people on the prolonged strike. Truly, enough is enough for keeping students at home. Don’t hurt the next generation for goodness sake,” he said. POLL The president called on all well-meaning Nigerians, particularly those close to the leaders and members of the association, to intervene in persuading the lecturers to reconsider their position, and the ripple effect on an entire generation and the nation. President Buhari said students from Nigerian universities will be faced with the challenge of competing with others in a highly connected and technology- driven work space, and keeping them at home only deprives them of time, skill and opportunities to be relevant on the global stage. “Colonial type education was geared towards producing workers in government. Those jobs are no longer there. Our young people should get education to prepare them for self-employment. Now education is for the sake of education. “Through technology we are much more efficient. We should encourage our children to get education, not only to look for government jobs,” he added. President Buhari said resources should be channeled more into building infrastructure and operations of the health and educational sector, not to expand the bureaucracy to create job opportunities. “By this time next year, I would have made the most out of the two terms, and the remaining months I will do my best,” the president noted. President Buhari urged those in political positions and places of privilege to be mindful in helping the many Nigerians that were looking for opportunities. “If you are greedy, you won’t look around to see what is happening with those who are less endowed,’’ he said. The president told the governors and political leaders that he had not been to his house in Daura for close to a year due to the demands of office. “The observation that I abandoned my base was made by the Emir of Daura, Dr. Faruk Umar Faruk, at the eid prayer ground. “He held the microphone and told everyone that the last time I was in Daura was during the Eidel- Kabir of 2021,” he added. President Buhari said he would retire to Daura, not Kaduna, where he had a better house. “In ten to eleven months’ time, I will come here. I have a better house in Kaduna, but it is too close to Abuja,” he said. The president explained that the schedule of work was much, saying he recently had to sympathise with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, who had to be away most of the time from his family. President Buhari urged the APC stalwarts to keep working for the good of the people and the country, noting that “we are a lucky people, and we need to reflect more on where we are coming from.” The president said relative to the resources available, and compared to the last administration, the government had done well in many areas, particularly in infrastructure. “I wish the person who is coming after me the very best,” he said. On security, the president said the North-West had posed more challenges, and some successes had been recorded in other regions, North-East and South-South. President Buhari advised some indigenes in the South-South to stop hurting national assets, which also affect their livelihood. “I am eager to go. I can tell you it has been tough. I am grateful to God that people appreciate the personal sacrifices we have been making,” he added. In his remarks at the meeting, the chairman of Progressive Governors’ Forum, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, thanked the president for his leadership roles in improving the economy of the nation and the many successes recorded at the APC, which include two conventions to produce the party leadership and the presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. “We will work hard to ensure the success of our party. We have reasons to work very hard,” he added. Bagudu, who is the governor of Kebbi State, said the favourable seasons supported the vision of ensuring food production and making agriculture a priority, with clear results in rice pyramids in various states. “In spite of the attacks by the renegades, our country remains self-sufficient in food production. We have seen investments that were not there before you came into power. “Not less than 20 states now have agriculture process zones. We have rice pyramid in Ekiti, Gombe and Niger, while maize pyramids were revived in Katsina and Kano states,” he said. He said more than 54 rice meals were commissioned in various states, and 57 fertiliser plants were revived, or built afresh. “All these were achieved because of your commitment and patriotism,” the governor told the president. Bagudu also appreciated the president for providing ease of access to governors and political leaders, noting that the opening of the National Economic Council for more fluid exchange of ideas greatly helped in improving the economy. APC governors at the lunch with the president include: Katsina State, Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari; Kaduna State, Malam Nasir el-Rufai; Imo State, Hope Uzodimma; Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule; Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello; Kano State, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje; Ekiti State, Dr. Fayemi Kayode; Plateau State, Simon Lalong, and Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. Church Leaders Say Long Strike Shows Insensitivity Of FG, Union Meanwhile, leaders and ministers of churches in the country have appealed to unions in the nation’s universities to quickly resolve the lingering ASUU strike in the interest of the students. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin on Monday under the aegis of fellowship of leaders and ministers of Bible-believing churches, the clerics, led by Pastor Abel Aiyedogbon, said that future of Nigeria may be in jeopardy if youths are not prepared for expected roles. “As a body and stakeholders to the destinies of our children, we are appealing to the parties concerned especially the Federal Government to quickly resolve the ASUU crisis because the students involved are the future leaders of our nation and if they are not prepared for such roles as expected, the future of our country may be in jeopardy. “Today is the womb of tomorrow, what we do with our nation today will determine how strong the country will be tomorrow. The Nigeria of tomorrow is certainly going to be what the ruling class of today organises it to be.” The church leaders and ministers said that the long strike action had showed alleged insensitivity on part of the nation’s policy makers and all the stakeholders involved, adding that the plights of university students who have been at the receiving end over the years need to be considered. The clerics, who are meeting in Ilorin for annual Fellowship Conference, themed, ‘The Church in Time like This’, condemned alleged financial inducement in the nation’s politicking, saying that “Nigeria will never have quality leaders if money politics is sustained”. The body cautioned Nigerian political leaders on religious consideration ahead of 2023 general elections, saying that, “It is a form of religious intolerance to even contemplate either a Muslim-Muslim ticket or Christian-Christian ticket. Balancing the scale will ensure unity by offering a sense of belonging to all. The silent truth is that no Muslim can lead Nigeria without Christians’ support and no Christian can lead the country without Muslims’ support. We need ourselves to lead and lead well.” The church leaders also advised the nation’s political leaders against making empty promises, saying, “Nigeria needs leaders who will rule with the fear of God and love for the people and not those who will make promises that they cannot fulfill. We have gotten to the point where we can no longer rely on promises but achievement, past records and antecedent. “As ordained ministers and church leaders, we remain resolute in actualising the Nigeria project and will continue to work for the unity and progress of the country. The nation must urgently return to God for help and restoration. “The Bible states that “and if My people who are called by My name will humble themselves and pray and seek My face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land”, 2 Chronicles 7.14. As a nation, we must recognize our failures and inabilities, show remorse for our sins, turn to God to help us in where we cannot do and seek His presence with penitence. It is then we can expect revival and restoration of God’s favor, presence, peace, truth and power. “As we look forward to a better Nigeria, all citizens should endeavour to play their respective roles as expected and treat the others with dignity and honour.”