A group under the umbrella of the Coalition of Free Dariye Organization has appealed to the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN to do the needful and transmit the warrant to the agencies responsible for the release of the former Governor of Plateau State, Senator Joshua Dariye, Dr. Jolie Nyame and others without any further delay from Kuje Prison. The group led by Rhoda Sanda while addressing newsmen in Jos, frowned over the continuous incarceration of the former Plateau State Governor, Senator Joshua Dariye despite the Presidential pardon granted to him three months ago. The Plateau group appreciated the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, the Council of State, the Executive Governor of Plateau State and Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum Simon Lalong for the Presidential Pardon granted to their illustrious son, Chief Joshua Dariye, however, lamented those responsible for delay in the release of Plateau former Governor from Prison should have a rethink and comply with the presidential directive. According to the leader of the Coalition, Rhoda Sanda, their commitments towards the pardon granted to Dariye clearly depicted their demonstration of love and concern towards the plight of Chief Joshua Dariye adding that the mere pronouncement of the Council of State gladden their hearts and lighten up the darkness occasioned by his absence in his immediate family, among friends and associates. She argued that their deep concern at the moment is the continued incarceration of Senator Dariye, Dr. Jolie Nyame and others despite the pardon granted to them by the Council of State three months ago. Sanda also noted that they are appalled and disturbed that all the necessary authorities concerned to effect his release from prison are still dragging their feet over the matter despite the State of the health of the former governor. She recalled that the Council of State granted him pardon because of his State of health so that he can go home and take proper care of himself. “Based on this, the general expectation is that the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation Abubakar Malami SAN and all other relevant authorities will act with quick dispatch to effect the presidential pardon”. POLL “But to our surprise, nothing has been done three months after the pardon. It is in light of this development that growing concerns have emerged over his non-release after being granted pardon which has necessitated this press conference.” They explained that as law-abiding citizens and a group with high regard for the Rule of Law, and do not want to fall victim of a display of crass ignorance in a bid to understand the logical perspective to his continued detention. “We, therefore, appeal to Governor Simon Lalong as a father to step into this matter and interface with relevant authorities concerned on why one of the illustrious sons of the state, Senator Joshua Dariye is still being held three months after the Presidential pardon.” The Coalition further added that as a father his urgent intervention is needed and cannot afford to ignore this clarion call or sit on the fence stressing that the concerned people of Plateau State want to know the reason behind the hesitancy of the Ministry of Justice in issuing his release warrant to the Ministry of Interior and the National Correctional Service.