KANO – Kano State Ministry of Health on Friday decried proliferation of illegal Private Heath Training Institutions (PHTIs) in the State. A statement by Hadiza Mustapha Namadi, Information Officer on behalf of the Commissioner cautioned the general public that the unrecognized institution exists without recourse to extant regulations governing the establishment and operation of such schools as specified by regulatory bodies and other relevant authorities. Mrs Namadi explained that some of those un-recognized institutions lack definite sites and offer dubious programmes against the established course curricula, while also extorting exorbitant fees on students and their parents. The signed statement that was made available to INDEPENDENT reads in part “The Kano State Ministry of Health has noticed with serious concern, the incessant proliferation of illegal Private Heath Training Institutions (PHTIs) in the State without recourse to extant regulations governing the establishment and operation of such schools as specified by regulatory bodies and other relevant authorities.” Hadiza noted that “It is of serious dismay to realize that some of those un-recognized institutions lack definite sites and offer dubious programmes against the established course curricula, while also extorting exorbitant fees on students and their parents.” The statement added “Suffice to indicate, this ugly trend is at the detriment of the people, educational development and efficiency of the entire health system. Consequently, the general public are hereby informed of the instant shut-down of all illegal Health Training Institutions (HTIs) in the State, pending the outcome of necessary investigations. These include the following” Mrs Namadi gave the list of the affected institutions, and its addresses as follows Unity College of Health Science & Technology, Dorayi Karama (K.G/Mai), Gwale LGA, Danbatta LGA, Khalil College of Health Science & Technology, Zaria Road, Opp Gadar Lado, DarmanawaUnguwa Uku Opp. Hisbah OfficeKarkasara, Opp. Bilal Mosque, Tarauni LGA. Also on the list are Shamila College of Health Science & Technology, Gezawa LGA, Autan Bawo College of Health Science & Technology, Rano LGA, Trustee College of Health Science & Technology, Jakara, Dala LGA – Kano, Bachirawa, Ungoggo LGA – Kano, Eagle College of Health Science & TechnologyBichi LGA, Albakari College of Health Science & Technology, Rijiyar Zaki, Ungoggo LGA – Kano, and Jamatu College of Health Science & Technology, Kura LGA, Savanna College of Health Science & Technology, Wudil LGA, Others are Institute of Health Education, Ahmadiyya, Opp. INEC Office, Jamilu Chiroma College of Health Science & Technology, Kings-Garden, Zungero, Opp. Airport Road, S/Gari, Sir Sanusi College of Health Science & Technology, Matan Fada Road, Aminu Ado Bayero College of Health Science & Technology, Ado Bayero Layout, Dandinshe Yamma – Dala LGA, Awwab College of Health Science & Technology, Salanta, Gwale LGA. POLL Gwarzo Unity College of Health Science & Technology, Gwarzo LGA, Al-wasa’u College of Health Science & Technology, T/Fulani, Nassarawa LGA – Kano, Kanima Academy, Layin Dan-kargo, Zangon Dakata, Nassarawa LGA – Kano, Muslim College of Health Science & Technology, Zungeru Road, Fagge LGA – Kano, Utopia College of Health Science & Technology, Jigirya JSS, Yankaba, Nassarawa LGA – Kano also made the list of affected Health institutions. The ministry further mentioned ,Jama’a College of Health Science & Technology, Na’ibawa Yan-lemo, Tarauni LGA – Kano, Kausar Healthcare Academy, Jos Road, Beside Islamic Centre, T/Wada LGA – Kano, Shanono College of Health Science & Technology, No. 33 Kofar Gari, Shanono LGA – Kano, Institute of Basic Health Education, Jakara Guarden, Airport Road, Nassarawa LGA – Kano, School of Health Technology, Habib Faruq Girls Sec. Sch., Gidan Kara, Kurna T/Fulani, School of Health Technology, Bachirawa Special Primary School, Ungoggo LGA, and Fudiyya School of Health Sciences, Danrimi, ‘Yan-babura Rijiyar Lemo, Fagge LGA.