At a recent function of the People’s Redemption Party, PRP, in Abuja, NSIKAK EKANEM encountered the Akwa Ibom State chapter chairman of the party, Aniebiet Emmanuel, who rationalized the choice of Kola Abiola as the party’s presidential candidate and others in the PDP that will shape the fortune of the party in the 2023 general elections. Excerpts: Why do you decide to stick with PRP in spite of notions in many quarters in Akwa Ibom that “PDP is a religion” with a large following in the state? The more they say that PDP is a religion the more I enjoy staying in PRP. Concerning religion in Nigeria, it is either Christianity or Islam. For somebody to say that a party that can just vanish tomorrow, when it loses power, is a religion is surprising. I have been with the people at the grassroots and I know very well that a lot of people are not members of the PDP. PDP cannot claim that all the votes the party have been getting in the state are from members of the PDP. People might decide to vote for a candidate and not a party and in such circumstances those in PDP may feel they are on ground. I can tell you that PDP is not on ground in Akwa Ibom. While it is not disputing that PRP has been in existence far longer than the two reigning parties, APC and PDP, what is the strength of your party at the national level? PRP is not like other political parties that do not have ideology. PRP has an ideology. We are socialites. Some of the good things the other parties in government are struggling to do are borrowed from the PRP. It is just that they don’t want to bear PRP. But they can eat from the PRP. The PRP has been a long standing political party for close to 50 years now. Unlike how others are operating, a party with ideology is always very careful with whatever it is doing. That is why the capitalists might not like the party, let alone wanting to join. During the leadership of Balarabe Musa, the late fine elder statesman was very careful in opening up the party because he was afraid of the capitalists coming to hijack the party from the masses. He felt that that is the only party for the masses, the poor people, the rejected in the society, the physically challenged. It was close to his days in this world that he saw the need to open up the party believing that there is a way to control them. You know INEC is no longer funding political parties as it used to be. That is why you are seeing the level the party is going today. I believe in the next election PRP will be seen everywhere in this country. After the death of Balarabe Musa, who was nationally recognized, can the PRP boast of another leader with similar national appeal? The first is the National Chairman of the party, Falalu Bello, the only Nigerian that has been Managing Director of four banks. We are proud of having him as the leader of the party. We love him and the way he is operating the party. The next person is Attahiru Jega. He is a brand as far as his public profile is concerned. The next one is Kola Abiola, a young vibrant and humble human being. We have people like Hakeem Ahmed Hakeem, Richard Umaru. We have a lot of them. I can’t mention all of them here. We are very proud to have them in the party. Recently we have the likes of Usani Usani, the former minister, joining the party and he is contesting for the position of governor in Cross River State. There is something in PRP that caused him to join the party instead of joining any other one. The party is very strong under the leadership of Falalu Bello. You mentioned ideology as one of the unique selling points that differentiates PRP from other political parties in Nigeria. To what extent would you say that the ideology the party was known for in its formative years is still been adhered to? POLL The number one thing is the power of the people. If you look at what is happening in other parties, the people there do not have a say. Recently, at our presidential primary we had what has never happened in other political parties. The members of the party said we don’t want a situation where the national leadership would be seen to be manipulating the process of electing who becomes the presidential candidate of the party. We put forward an idea for all of us to retire to our various constituencies and let the various structures of the party decide who the presidential candidate of the party so that no undue national influence would be there. The presidential primary was conducted at the state level and collation was done at the national level like what INEC does. That is one of the things that differentiate PRP from other political parties. The second is the power of the people having its way – allowing people to send who or what they want at respective levels of the party. What somebody needs in Abuja here may be different from somebody needs in Eket! We believe that allowing the people decide what they want is the best. The issue of the state control of the economy is another factor. The PRP believes that instead of the national deciding what to give to states, the states should generate whatever they have within their territory and pay a certain percentage to the national to keep the national government running. Would it be right to deduce that the PRP is in sync with the clamour to restructure Nigeria, to give more powers to the states? That is where we stand! It is there in the Constitution of the PRP. It is the best for the country, and PRP is the only party that can reset this country. Other than being the first son of the late business mogul, Chief Moshood Abiola, who won the famous June 12, 1993 presidential election, not much is known about the personality of Kola Abiola. So, what really informed PRP faithful to choose him as the Presidential candidate of the party? The president of this country is from the northern part of the country, and the immediate past president, Goodluck Jonathan, who did six years, hails from the south-south. As a party, we look at all those things. Our focus was on the South-East but there was nobody from the south-east contesting the party’s presidential primary. So, we were left with the choice of Kola Abiola from the south-west. It would have been unwise to pick someone from the north, where the incumbent president is from or the south-south, where the immediate past president comes from. We also consider the capacity of the person going for presidential election in terms of being able to go round the entire country to seek for votes. And you know what it involves. We also look at the integrity of the person. Kola Abiola has never been in the saddle of political leadership. No one can accuse him of amassing wealth from public treasury. That was part of the ground we relied on in choosing Kola Abiola. Remember also that his father was denied occupancy of the office of Nigeria’s President even when he won the famous June 12 Presidential Election. We identify the family strongly with the victory of Chief M.K.O Abiola. Kola Abiola, who is today a scion of the MKO Abiola family, was up and doing when his father contested the election. In fact, he was like an unofficial campaign manager. So, Kola has ideas on what works in winning presidential elections in a complex and multifaceted nation like Nigeria. If you listen to him speaks, he doesn’t speak like a southerner, he speaks like a Nigerian. We looked at all these qualities in him and we resolve to vote for him. Kola Abiola won the primary election in the PRP convincingly. Do you see Kola Abiola replicating the victory he had at the party level in the 2023 presidential election and the feat achieved by his father about 30 years ago? I think he will be more victorious than what he had at the party level. I hope the votes will count. The Nigerian people yearn for a young man that has the capacity, vision and sympathy for the people. We need a man that can unite this nation, not a man that will be dividing this country more. MKO Abiola had a landslide victory. He even won in Kano, where his rival, Bashir Tofa, came from; do you think Kola Abiola has his father’s kind of attributes that appealed to Nigerians in all parts of the country? I believe so, that he will even do more. Right thinking people will compensate a child or children of a person that was unjustly denied his rights. We are talking about democracy, but we should not forget that a man was denied the opportunity even when he was given the mandate by the people to preside over their affairs. Nigerian politics in recent times looks like a cash-and-carry affair; do you think Kola Abiola has the financial muscle to wrestle with the likes of Atiku Abubakar and Bola Tinubu, who are seen by many as moneybags? I would not say that Kola Abiola has such capacity, but he has more capacities worth far more than whoever gives the image of being moneybag. Money will not really come to play in the 2023 General Elections. I am hopeful that the people will decide the next president of Nigeria and not money. Nigerians need someone with integrity to run this country to make sure that there is peace, security and food for the Nigerian people. You earlier mentioned Attahiru Jega and others, do you think they have electoral value that could help in delivering votes to the PRP? The names I mentioned are not just the only persons involved in the race to secure victory for PRP. People like myself, whether money or no money will make sure that we deliver at the polls. The same goes with other stakeholders of the party, including Jega. It is time we do it right and I know we will do it right. Jega himself has followers and sympathy of the people who were even clamouring for him to run for president. He reasoned that it will be morally wrong for a northerner to succeed another northerner after eight years rule by the latter. Jega is a right thinking human being and people like him for that, and that will, in turn, make people to queue along a presidential candidate of a party he belongs to. Can you project the fortune of the PRP in the 2023 General Elections? Check the parties now and check them again after the elections. You will see that PRP is going to take over the affairs of this country. With PRP, Nigeria will be well again. 