Mojisola Sesan-Aina is a business growth specialist and founder of People in Business Network, Women in Digital Africa and Vendors Connect. In this interview with VICTORIA OJUGBANA, she speaks about digital marketing, how female entrepreneurs can be successful if they invest in the right business online, among other issues. Excerpts: What do you do at People in Business Network, Women in Digital Africa and Vendors Connect? What I currently do revolves around business growth, brand management, social media management, women empowerment and coaching. My job as I said earlier entails creating job opportunities and giving entrepreneurs the opportunity to grow their businesses through our various offerings. I know that in business entrepreneurs do have challenges, especially when they are just starting, what were your initial challenges and how were you able to surmount them? With every success, I have had trails of failures, rejections and disappointments, which sometimes left me in despair. However, I continued to work purposefully, with doggedness and focus. The major challenges I have encountered are mainly with people who promised so much but delivered very little in business. I have also had to learn to deal with trust issues. Challenges will always be there, and how you deal with it, is what determines if you can survive the next ordeal. -Advertisement- POLL You also know that in business trust matters a lot and that is why I try as much as possible not to let anyone have reason to doubt me in the course of my business relationship with them. I must say that I was able to deal with mine and will continue to deal with any that will surface in future which is the reason that I am still in business. You know that with every business comes challenges and risks and as a business person you must learn and be determined to deal with them. Can you share your journey into the business world? I have always wanted to be a career woman. I knew this from when I was younger. Consequently, I worked towards that goal by making the right choices to gear me towards the right path. Armed with a plethora of skills, including a Bachelor of Science Degree (BSc.) in Sociology and a Master’s degree in Public and International Affairs, I started work in the media industry and that paved the way for me to discover my other potentialities. My career chart and work experience span across several sectors like the Media and Communications industry, Brand Management, Marketing, Public Relations and Social Media Marketing. This is actually what has propelled me to be where I am today. I must tell you that I am really fulfilled with what I am doing. I created a platform for women to be entrepreneurial giants online. My aim is also to build brands and make an impact in the digital space, thereby creating job opportunities for the teeming young unemployed Nigerians and provide business advice as well. From what you have said so far, it shows that you have passion for women empowerment, why is this so? My foray into women empowerment stemmed from discovering myself. As women, we have so many things to offer. The average woman does a 9-5 job, caters for the home front and would still offer community service. In other words, women are geniuses who handle work-life balance effectively. This and many more prompted me to develop initiatives that would empower and upscale every hardworking woman out there. What is your take on women doing businesses online? Are they making progress? Women are currently making waves digitally. They have become giants in their fields and it is worth celebrating. It is no longer a male dominated territory. Women are exceedingly doing well. As women, we can also do more. Women have a great role to play in national development and they are not excused from being in the digital space. The New Age of Marketing is digital and everyone has a right to be in the space because it gives more room to be seen and discovered. How can women run businesses online without hitches? A woman can run a business online without hitches by investing in the right business. She must first identify her niche and ensure that she is constantly learning ways to better her craft. The digital space is a whole new environment and it is fiercely competitive. If you are not strong enough, your business will soon cower in the presence of stronger brands. I will want to add that working on-line demands a lot of time, consistency, creativity and ideation. You must be up-to-date with trends. What specific advice do you have for young female entrepreneurs who would like to go into similar business? My advice to young women aspiring to work in digital marketing is to be prepared to bring their best to bear, get set for challenges, face storms squarely and emerge as winners in all areas. What makes one a good digital marketer? A good digital marketer must be an analytical and creative thinker who is always churning out great ideas irrespective of what is available. The desire to be fiercely entrepreneurial is also a great Skill that will propel that marketer to be ahead of its peers. Digital marketers must also be proficient in the use of digital and social tools which would in turn help them to effectively coordinate a company’s digital and social media needs. A good digital marketer is also that person that is tech savvy and knows about trends and tools. Who are your role models in the business world? In the world of business, three women stand out for me as role models; these women have surpassed their roles and are trailblazers in all respects. They are Mrs, Ibironke Adeyemi, Managing Director, Chrisland Schools Limited, Mrs Folorunsho Alakija and Mrs Shade Okoya. How do you combine business and family life? Working online is really demanding, particularly for the woman, however, my simple way of balancing mine is by planning and ensuring that none of these aspects of my life suffer. My work life balance is intact so long as I can plan ahead, if I don’t, my roles come flooding me like a tsunami. What makes you fulfilled as a business coach? Coaching makes me independent; it gives me a sense of reliability and commitment. I never trained to be a coach; it is something I stumbled upon. I love empowering, equipping and informing. As a business coach, getting to share a fact or explain a phenomenal occurrence or share tools is in itself amazing. I will not trade this role; I love where I am at and gradually moving to where I belong.