Goalkeeper Pepe Reina has re-joined former club Villarreal 17 years after he left to sign for Liverpool in 2005. The 39-year-old came through the youth set up at Barcelona but spent three years with the Yellow Submarine between 2002 and 2005. He was then snapped up by the Reds and spent eight years on Merseyside. He was loaned out to Napoli for the 2013/14 season and then completed a permanent move to Bayern Munich a year later. He’s since had spells at AC Milan, Aston Villa and, most recently, Lazio. His contract with the Serie A club came to an end this summer and he’s now returned to his homeland with Villarreal. Reina joins his former club on a one-year deal and he says he’s fulfilled the ‘promise’ he made to return when he completed the move to Liverpool 17 years ago. He said at his unveiling: “I’m very happy. 17 years ago I spoke with (Villarreal vice-president Jose Manuel) Llaneza and asked him to be able to leave to be able to start a family, grow as footballers, but with the promise of being able to return one day. “I return with the family I wanted to form, with five children. I couldn’t have had a better finish. I’m going to retire here. I don’t know if it will be one or two years. I am excited to contribute so that this club continues to grow in Spain and in Europe. “It is the second team that I have watched the most after mine. In addition to emotion, I have feeling with this club. I have followed them a lot, in the league the physical and mental work of getting so far in the Champions League wore them out. “Now, we must try in all the competitions to finish better than this year. There are foundations and a base to continue growing.” Reina made over 390 appearances during his time at Liverpool and kept 177 clean sheets in all competitions. He won the Premier League golden glove three times, including the 05/06, 06/07 and 07/08 seasons. POLL While at Villarreal, he made 147 appearances and helped them reach a UEFA Cup final in 2004. He was also part of the team that qualified for the Champions League in 04/05.