Barcelona have sold another 15% of their La Liga television rights to a US investment firm to release finances which will strengthen their hand in the transfer market. The club announced on Friday “an additional investment” from Sixth Street, which in late June acquired 10% of Barcelona’s La Liga TV rights for the next 25 years. When Barcelona confirmed that deal they said it would generate a total capital gain of €267m for this season and that Sixth Street would initially invest €207.5m. Financial details of the latest arrangement were not released but Barcelona said: “In total, Sixth Street will receive 25% of the club’s LaLiga TV rights for the next 25 years.” Barcelona have been wrestling with major financial problems, with the president, Joan Laporta, revealing last August that the debt stood at €1.35bn and that player salaries accounted for 103% of all income. The club have been taking significant steps to strengthen their squad, though, after finishing a distant second to Real Madrid last season and going out of the Champions League at the group stage. They have signed Robert Lewandowski, Raphinha and Pablo Torre for a combined £91.6m, brought in Andreas Christensen and Franck Kessié on free transfers, and continue to pursue players. They are competing with Chelsea for the Sevilla defender Jules Koundé, who would cost about £55m, and hope to sign two other defenders, César Azpilicueta and Marcos Alonso, from Chelsea. They also have an interest in Manchester City’s Bernardo Silva. Frenkie de Jong, who has been told he can join Manchester United, is owed about £17m in deferred wages. POLL Laporta said on Friday: “We continue to move forward on our strategy and are pleased to have completed this additional agreement with Sixth Street providing us with a meaningful increase in capital strength.” Sixth Street reached a €360m deal with Real Madrid in May to develop new businesses at the Santiago Bernabéu stadium. In February Barcelona struck a £236m deal with Spotify for the title rights on the redeveloped Camp Nou and shirt sponsorship.