MAKURDI – Good Governance Advocacy (GGA), a group in Benue South senatorial district (Zone’C’) has called on the All Progressives Congress (APC) to get competent persons that would serve as the Deputy Governorship candidate of the party in Benue state, who is of the Apa/Agatu extraction. The group insisted that even though the slot of the deputy governorship candidates was zoned to Benue South senatorial district, it rightfully belongs to the Apa/Agatu extraction and this should be done in the interest of justice and equity for the 2023 elections. Coordinator, GGA, Amb. Terrence Odeh Ogaba disclosed this in a statement he personally signed and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Tuesday. He argued that among other credible candidates that should be allowed to serve in the capacity of deputy governorship candidate are Hon. Yusuf Sulaiman Elaigwu. The Coordinator also argued that whereas other federal constituencies in Zone ‘C’ have produced candidates who eventual emerged as deputy governors, Apa/Agatu was yet to do so. Ogaba said, “Benue forum is calling on all people of goodwill especially the Benue community and particularly the APC to pick its candidate from Apa/Agatu. This compelling call has become necessary as Apa/Agatu remains the only federal constituency from Zone ‘C’ yet to produce a Deputy Governor.” He stated that in the past, Prince Ogiri Ajene, Oju/Obi federal constituency was the deputy governor to Senator George Akume (1999 – 2007); Chief Ochagwu Steven Lawani, from Ogbadibo/Okpokwu/Ado served under His Excellency, Gabriel Suswan (2007 – 2015) and presently Engr. Benson Abounu under His Excellency Samuel Ortom. The group further argued that, “This leaves out Apa/Agatu in Zone C and the only appropriate thing left for the APC is to do justice on the matter. POLL “The APC will get it right by selecting a suitable and competent deputy from the right section, to ensure victory. “Even at that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has chosen its deputy governorship candidate from Apa/Agatu for strategic reasons which APC should not contemplat to do otherwise in order to have a resoundingly victory. “We, therefore, urge the leadership of APC in the state led by His Excellency George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Chief Audu Ogbeh, Chief Young Alhaji; Austin Agada, APC State Chairman; Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia the APC governorship candidate as well as other party elders and stakeholders to select a Deputy governorship candidate from Apa/Agatu.” He insisted that “The person must be a competent and experienced party loyalist and faithful like Hon. Yusuf Sulaiman Elaigwu and others. “We believe in the ability of APC stakeholders to manage the affairs of the party effectively, to ensure victory in 2023”, he stated. GGA is a forum whose membership cut across political, professional and business classes, said it is committed to lending its voice to the renaissance the Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia’s popular choice by the APC presents for a better Benue in 2023.