JOS – The delay in the release of Plateau Former Governor Senator Joshua Dariye from Kuje Correctional Prison after securing State Pardon from Council of State has been considered by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria Garba Pwul (SAN) as disrespect to the decision of Council of State and President Buhari. Pwul (SAN) in an interview with newsmen in Jos at his Rayfield residence on Friday Said once Presidential amnesty is given, signed and pronounced by a serving President, it takes immediate effect as there is no any higher authority than the president who has approved it. Pwul a Jos based legal luminary and a chieftain of All Progressive congress said the delay in releasing Chief Joshua Dariye and others who were granted presidential pardon was wrong and be challenged in court by Dariye Counsel. According to him, having recieved a presidential pardon backed up by the Council of State the matter is conclusive and Chief Joshua Dariye and others ought to have seen the light of the day within 24 hours adding that nobody can seat on amnesty. “It appears to be contempt and disrespect to that very high Council. The Council itself should be able to hold somebody responsible for this delay. It is an instrument that must be respected , no matter whose ox is gored .” “So, if beyond the amnesty, Dariye is still being held, they is something more than the eyes can see. Like I said his lawyers or anybody who is representing him, must give lives to this amnesty. It is no longer a matter of procedure , after that day, Dariye should have been out the next day because it take immediate effect .” Pwul further advised Dariye’s lawyers or whoever that is representing him to take immediate steps to give lives to the amnesty granted him. Some people are saying for political reasons somebody sat on it. I think nobody is higher than the President . If there is anything wrong, somebody somewhere is being disobedient and sabotaging the amnesty.” He argued that this is what Dariye lawyer should have unraveled as it is part of his duty adding that he is telling the people of this country particularly to the presidency because it is improper for the presidency to take a decision backed by the Council of State and nothing has being done and nobody is asking questions.