The New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD) and its partners on the southwest #VoteNotFight campaign have strongly condemned the reported attack on the residence of the Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate, Hon. Lasun  Yusuf. The LP candidate’s house was reportedly attacked at his Ilobu, Osun State residence by yet-to-be-identified gunmen in the early hours of Monday, July 11, 2022. In a statement  jointly signed by Abimbola Aladejare-Salako NIGAWD ED and Convener of Southwest #VoteNotFight Campaign and Bukola Idowu, Executive Director, Kimpact Development Initiative (KDI), Osun State Partner  said the campaign was deeply saddened by the incident While extending its best wishes to Hon Lasun and his family who we have learned were thankfully not harmed, frowns at the use of violence to influence the outcome of democratic processes and elections. ” This goes contrary to the commitments made and signed by governorship candidates during the advocacy visit to them by Vote Not Fight campaign ambassador Mr Innocent Idibia (aka 2Baba). Outside the governorship candidates, the campaign also reached and secured commitments on peaceful conduct before, during and after the election from Osun youth, members of the different transportation unions in the state and religious leaders. “The Vote Not Fight Campaign reached Osun residents with peace and voter education messages through traditional and social media programs. The reported attack on Hon Lasun threatens the peace currently being enjoyed by residents in the state. We call on the Police to immediately investigate, arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of the attack to serve as deterrence to the general public. ” We urge governorship candidates and the leadership of political parties to encourage their supporters to conduct themselves peacefully throughout the electoral process. Youth are also charged to remain resolute in shunning politicians and their associates who wish to recruit them for electoral violence. We enjoin Osun youth to report plans or actual incidents of electoral violence and other electoral offences like vote trading to the police as soon as they become aware of it. We finally reiterate our commitment to support all efforts to swiftly diffuse tension and promote peace building, dialogue and mutual cohesion before, during and after the 2022 Osun off-cycle governorship. POLL The Vote Not Fight campaign is implemented with technical assistance from the National Democratic Institute (NDI) and financial assistance from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Foreign Commonwealth and Development (FCDO).