Oba Adeyeye Babatunde Odunwusi, Ojaja 11, the Ooni of Ile-Ife has challenged governments at all levels, especially in the South West to ensure the sustenance of the Yoruba culture and history for the growth of the region. This is as Dr. Grbriel Olowo, the President, Aviation Round Table (ART) has called on the Federal Government to provide good road networks across the South Western region for the easy transportation of agricultural produce to the end users. Speaking in ile-Ife, Osun State, during the visit of Olowo to the palace over the weekend to thank the royal majesty for gracing his 70th birthday recently, the Ooni lamented that the abandonment of culture and gradually erase of history by the government would have negative effect on the country. The Ooni said that to salvage the situation, there must be practical efforts by all and sundry to sustain the culture and history of the region, warning that without this, wrong information may be passed to the next generation. According to him, several of the histories of Ile-Ife were either not well-documented or told from the biased point of views of whosoever that is promoting them. But, he explained that in order to ensure true representation, the Ile-Ife royal stool has instituted Ife Studies where history and culture of the city would be well-told and documented. He said: “We have what we now call Ife Studies where knowledge about physics, medicine and others are done. The Bible is only 6,000 years old, but we had one Ooni that was on the throne for 2,200 years. When we tell this story, majority feels it is not possible, but we had Methuselah in the Bible who lived for 962 years. If Methuselah was enthroned as Ooni at the age of 30 for instance, at least, he would be 932yrs on the throne, which is almost a thousand years. “And we had another Ooni that was on the throne for 422 years, 300 years, 190 years, 175 year, Ogboru was on the throne for 195 years and if you calculate all thee cumulatively, you will know that the lineage of the world even from Adam in the Bible till date is only 3,000 years, Jesus Christ is over 2,000 years. Adam to Jesus Christ was one thousand. All these were in the Bible and it is clear.” POLL Also speaking, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of ART, said that he was in the palace to thank the Ooni for attending his recently held 70th birthday and the launch of his book; Cutting Costs Without Cutting Corners,’ in Lagos despite his tight schedule. Olowo who is also an indigene of Ile-Ife, Osun State, however, regretted that Yoruba culture and history are being lost among the sons and daughters of the region and challenged every parent to inculcate the Yoruba culture in their wards and children. Besides, Olowo decried the bad road networks across the region, stressing that this was adding to the cost of sales of agric produce. He explained that with effective intermodal form of transport, which is linked to airport, transportation of goods and services would be easier and cheaper. Also, he canvassed for the abrogation of some infrastructure and amenities under the exclusive clause of the Federal Government. Olowo insisted that said this clause was slowing down development across the country as it increases states’ dependency on Federal Government. He said: “I am strongly for the termination of exclusive clause, which puts a lot of things under the Federal Government. There are some things that we should leave to the State and Local governments, let us build our immediate environment and together, we shall be a stronger nation. “The exclusive clause has been a bigger problem to the growth of the economy. We have things on our grounds that we can make use of and generate wealth for our economy. That is a vital lesson to be learnt from here and this is not only in Ile-Ife, it is like that in the western region. “Ile-Ife needs a lot of infrastructure because for instance, it is historically an agricultural background. If I am going to establish either the raw materials or semi-finished materials, I need road to get to the market place and if there is a good network of roads in the western region for instance, all the western governors come together to provide the region super roads, once there is a road, agric produce can move.” He emphasised that the provision of infrastructure for easy movement of goods and services would reduce the pressure on foreign exchange and lead to diversification of the economy.