Who is the God people are serving all time? Where is He? Where does He live? Is He living in heaven or earth? Nobody claimed to have seen God. In the scripture, Moses, Elijah and Jesus were seen on earth. None of them met each other on earth but Jesus heard about Moses and Elijah and preached about their words. The stories and era of these people are facts and witnesses that show how great God is. Today many people do not know God they know something exists. Who owns and controls the activities of man i.e. eating, drinking, walking, speaking etc. It is God. The Elders describe God as the One that does what He likes. He created people in different forms, some are able and some are disable from birth. All these creation has shown that He does what He likes. Then who is this God? If some people do not know Him, then are they suppose\ to be doing His wish or not? The person that can kill and revive, bring about sorrow and happiness. Are we not to fear Him? Some people say God is tough or harsh but these people are in affliction and suffering. Similarly some people say God is tough but they are living unpleasant life. But God is tough that is a fact; this is because He does whatever He likes. The Bible says in Isaiah 45 verse 7“ I form the light and create darkness. I make peace and create calamity, I the Lord do all these things”. Jesus was asked whether it was the sin of blind man’s parent that made him blind from birth. Jesus replied that the blind man was created in that form so that the work of God should be revealed in him John 9 verse 1-3. Imagine somebody would be created blind so that he or she could be used for sign and wonder. Now would anybody say God is not tough. Some people are still suffering, no regular food, no money, no better life. These people experiencing these problems are not better than the blind man Jesus healed. In fact people would show mercy to the blind man than those facing problems. Yet some people say God is not tough. If God is not tough, He would not allow friends to depend on each other for survival, husband to depend on the wife, some to depend on the younger brother or sister. He would ensure everybody is treated equally Brethren, it is therefore imperative for people to rely on God because who ever rely on God shall not lack good things of life. This is how God works. When a person that says God is not tough complains about church doing things excessively and does not embrace what is Godly, the person shall continue in his or her suffering. But those who are serving God diligently and know that God is tough, praying fervently, that do not sleep or slumber and trying to move closer to God are eating good foods and drinking good wine and wearing good clothes. If they refuse to do all that pleases and serve God then they will know God is tough. If you do not serve God you would not eat and if you do not serve Him and you are eating you are cheat and eating from Satan. For me I am serving diligently and I do not lack good things of life with my family. God revealed to me several years ago three things required for man to do ion earth firstly he should eat very well secondly to worship and serve Him and thirdly for man to die. God has commanded every living soul to worship and serve Him when it is convenient or not. Many people would have fallen short of God’s commandments but things can be reverted if you sober and beg for forgiveness of your sins. God does not forgive unless you request for it. Let us seek for His favour and mercy.