 The new District Governor of the Lion Clubs District 404A1, Lion Anogwi Anyanwu, has announced that the district is prepared to build a Diabetic Center in Epe, Lagos. Speaking at a press confer­ence, which held at Yaba, La­gos on Friday, July 1, the D.G noted that his tenure is billed to offer humanitarian service towards sight preservation, diabetes prevention, pediatric cancer, feeding the hungry, and environmental protection and management which is in line with the International Associ­ation of Lions Clubs’ focus. “The Core Project for our District for the Lions year is the building of a diabetes cen­tre at the General Hospital at Epe, Lagos State. This centre, which is envisaged to be a one-stop centre for diabetes management within the Epe axis will be funded by Lions Clubs International Founda­tion (75%) and our District and partners (25%) and will ease the suffering endured by Diabetic patients within that axis who have to travel a long distance to the nearest centres in LUTH and LASUTH to get treatment,” he clarified. In corroboration, the D.G, Lion Anogwi Anyanwu im­plored members of the public to join the Lions Movement. He noted that the service club aspires to attain a reach where there would be a Lion to meet every need in the world. He noted likewise that the Lions Movement brought about the wipe of river blindness. “We have a popular slogan that says ‘when there is a need, there is a Lion.’ In service to humanity, the harvest is plenty but the labourers are few. We need more people to join the Lions Movement so we can serve more people in need. In this 2022/2023 Lions year, we plan to take the International Association of Lions Club to the marketplace so our activ­ities will be known to more Nigerians and we will also en­courage fellow citizens to join us so we will have many more people become available for humanitarian service.” The new District Governor is billed to be publicly present­ed on Saturday, August 20, 2022, at Harbour Point, Victoria Is­land, Lagos.