The Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comr. Ini Ememobong has hinted on collaboration with international media to showcase the achievements of Governor Udom Emmanuel, especially his Completion Agenda. Comr. Ini Ememobong gave the hint Wednesday, during the first and second quarters budget performance appraisal exercise, held at the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Complex, Uyo. He reasoned that, there was the need for increased publicity, especially at the national and international levels with a view to showcasing the Governor’s Completion Agenda, and several other opportunities available in the state for investments. “We’ve helped to bridge the Information gap, and we have also complemented the Governor’s effort to attract a lot of foreign direct investments to the state, by increasing our visibility in the national and international space, where we now have a lot of outdoor broadcasting happening live,” he said, adding, “Recently, our advertorials have been on CNN and other international media platforms. We have also had the Governor featured on the front cover of World Finance magazine, which is the world’s No 1 finance magazine, and also, Ethical Boardroom, which is a magazine read all over Europe and the UK. All of these are strategically placed to promote Akwa Ibom and her potentials.” The Commissioner intimated the House Committee on Finance and Appropriation, that during the last exco meeting, a directive was given by the Governor to the Inter-Ministerial Direct Labour Committee, to assess the state of the facility, with the aim of resuscitating the government Printing Press. ” His Excellency had approved that we start the processes by first, renovating that facility, and then the processes of getting the government printer to work again,” Ememobong noted. Earlier, the Chairman of the Committee, Rt. Hon. Uduak Odudoh, said that the budget performance review which started last week, was to prepare the State House of Assembly and all MDAs towards the next budget cycle exercise later in the year. The appraisal showed a performance indicator of 45 percent, with the sum of N395m spent from the total capital budgetary provisions of N881.9m in the within the first and second quarters of 2022, leaving a balance of N486.93m for the remaining two quarters.