Paschal Njoku ; Gbenga Faturoti ; Samuel Ogidan The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has warned that Saturday’s governorship election in Osun State could be exposed to massive rigging and unprecedented vote buying. A member of the CDD Election Analysis Centre (EAC), Prof. Victor Isumonah, raised the alarm on Thursday in Abuja at the organisation’s Pre-Election Observation Report on the Osun governorship election. This is as the organisation said the election would constitute a sterner test of capacity for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) compared to the Ekiti election. In the report also signed by the CDD-EAC Chair, Prof. Adele Jinadu, the organisation called for stronger monitoring by INEC. He lamented that despite the 2022 Electoral Act, the spate of vote-buying has not reduced. “This was evident in the Ekiti governorship election and likely to be worse in the Osun State governorship election. During the 2018 election, three men were arrested for vote-buying by police officers and the International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR) recorded instances of PDP agents partaking in such activities. POLL “CDD-EAC observers during the June 2022 Ekiti State Governorship Elections noted several instances of vote buying and calls for stronger monitoring by INEC,” Isumonah said. He said an increasing aspect of concern was the prevalence of fake news, misinformation, inflammatory rhetoric and rising cases of cultism and street gangs in Osun which could be appropriated for electoral violence and reduced voter turnout. He noted that the July 16 Osun State governorship election is significant because it will be the last major off-cycle election before the 2023 general elections. He said, “While the CDDEAC commends the improvements recorded by INEC during the Ekiti State governorship election, such as early arrival of officials at polling units, improved performance of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) during accreditation, and speedy management of results, there is still space for improvement. “It should be recalled that the election in Ekiti State was marred by vote buying and the occasional report of violence. It is very important for INEC to build on the progress made in Ekiti and address any other challenges with its operations. “The CDD-EAC is concerned about the lack of an issue-based campaign by the major candidates. The CDDEAC also expresses worry about recent instances of violence, such as the report that gunmen recently attacked the home of the Labour Party’s candidate, Yusuf Lasun. Also an inexplicable fire outbreak was reported at the home of the Accord Party candidate, Akin Ogunbiyi, and the PDP reported that police officers arrested some of their members without cause in Osogbo, as well as in Ijebu-ljesha and Eti-oni in Ori-Ade and Atakumosa Local Government Areas.” Court Dismisses Suit Seeking Oyetola’s Disqualification Meanwhile, Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Thursday dismissed a suit seeking disqualification of the All Progressives Congress and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola from contesting the July 16, Osun State Governorship election. Justice Ekwo dismissed the suit based on the fact that the plaintiff, a chieftain of APC, Moshood Adeoti, failed to disclose any cause of action. In the originating summons, Adeoti had prayed the court to nullify Oyetola’s candidacy on the grounds that the governor contested in the February 19, primary election as a member of the APC’s National Caretaker Extraordinary and Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The plaintiff stated the act of Oyetola contravened the provisions of section 222 of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and Article 31(iii) of the APC, October 2014 (as amended). But in its judgment, the court held that the suit by Adeoti, a former governorship aspirant, constituted a gross abuse of court process. It was the view of the court that the plaintiff did not exhaust the internal mechanism for dispute resolution before filing the suit in the law court. Consequently, Justice Ekwo upheld the arguments of Olusegun Jolaawo (SAN), that membership of the APC’s National Caretaker Extraordinary and Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) by Governor Oyetola in which the suit is predicated is an ad-hoc body and not the real APC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) recognised by the party’s constitution. The judge held that CECPC is not same as the office recognised by the APC’s constitution upon which anybody can be disqualified. Justice Ekwo said that CECPC is a mere ad-hoc body put in place in the absence of the National Executive Committee known to law. It was the opinion of the court that the issue of nomination of candidates for elective offices by political parties is an internal affairs of parties which no court can inquire into except where expressly stated by law. The court wondered why Adeoti resorted to court action after fully participating in the primary election, scored some votes and lost to Oyetola, adding that his action amounted to approbating and reprobating at the same time against the provisions of the law From the totality of the evidence placed before the court and questions raised for determination, the plaintiff, the court said, did not disclose any cause of action. Adeoti had sought disqualification of the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola, from Saturday’s gubernatorial election alongside the APC for failing to follow due process of law during the conduct of the primary election for the nomination of the gubernatorial candidate. Atiku, Ayu, PDP Govs, Leaders Vow To Unseat Oyetola Former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has said that the Osun State governorship election scheduled for July 16, is a battle between the people and the forces of darkness that has held the nation hostage. This is coming as Atiku Abubakar; his vice presidential candidate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa; national chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu and other leaders of the party on Thursday stormed Osogbo, the Osun State capital, to rally support for the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, in a bid to unseat Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The party leaders gave their support to Adeleke at a mega rally held at the party’s secretariat at Biker Area along Ikirun-Osogbo road. Ace musician, Davido, was also present at the rally to thrill thousands of PDP members and supporters that thronged the venue. Atiku also said that for the past 12 years, Osun State that was once a shining star of the South-West has been thrown into a state of doldrums. The former vice president, in a mail to Daily Independent, said, “Victory for the people of Osun signals an end of APC’s reign of hardship. “I don’t speak Yoruba but I understand a bit of it. Some members of my family speak the language fluently. “Of course, the Yoruba people are dear to my heart as other tribes in our country. But the Yoruba language has a unique quality that I admire in particular. It has the power of descriptiveness. “By my understanding, the slogan of Imole as the brand identity of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate in the Osun State election could not have been more apt. “Imole is not just light. Indeed, the closest English interpretation of it is ‘to illuminate.’ And for that, it is no wonder why our gubernatorial candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, enjoys a groundswell of support amongst the esteemed people of the state across all localities and local government areas. “For the past 12 years, Osun that was once a shining star of the West has been thrown into a state of doldrums. But the good news is here because the PDP is here. Imole has come on a rescue mission to return Osun to its state of glory and splendor. “Our victory in Osun, by God’s grace and the overwhelming decision of the electorate, will send a strong message to the ruling APC party that their reign has come to an end. APC’s loss in Osun is a win for the people of the state. It is when the people win that the PDP can truly boast of victory. And that is the promise that the PDP holds, not just in Osun but everywhere else. “Thus, the election this Saturday is a battle between the people and the forces of darkness that has held us hostage. But it is a battle that I am certain that the people shall win.” While addressing the crowd, Atiku lamented that the ruling party, the APC, had been rigging electoral processes all through and that it is time to put a stop to its antics. He explained that Osun State is a PDP state but APC has since been rigging elections in the state. According to him, “The first time they rigged election in the state was through court and the second time was carried out in 2018 when our party was rigged out. “This time around, we will not allow it to happen again. We must come together and vote APC out and I am assuring you all that voting out APC will wipe out our tears in the state.” The national chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayo, who presented the party’s candidate, Ademola Adeleke, with the party’s flag said that there is darkness in the state and all hands must be on deck to bring back light to it. He called on the residents of the state to vote Adeleke to make a change in the state because they have been cheated for almost four years now. Former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, enumerated his achievements while in office between 2003 and 2010 and sang song to cap it up. Adeleke appreciated the crowd and the mandate given to him in 2018 which he said was stolen. According to him, “APC had their way in 2018, this time around, we are back again in 2022, we are ready for the battle”. Present at the rally were former Vice President Namadi Sambo; Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum and governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tanbuwal; Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, among others. The party, however, lamented the denial by Osun State government to allow it use public facilities, Osogbo City Stadium, and Freedom Park, for the mega rally. The party’s caretaker chairman, Dr. Adekunle Akindele, while addressing journalists at the party secretariat, said, “It’s sad that Mr. Oyetola has done everything within his powers as the governor to frustrate our efforts to have our mega rally using public facilities. With the way things are going, it’s empirical evident that the governor has seen failure, hence his refusal to allow us to have our rally. “Like we mentioned the last time we had interaction with the media concerning the scheduled grand finale of our governorship campaign in Osun State, the APC administration under the watch of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola had remained adamant in denying our party access to all facilities we formally sought to hold today’s rally. After due consultations with prominent stakeholders in the state, including our highly revered royal fathers, the leadership of our party decided to make do with the vicinity of our state secretariat for our mega rally. “Our party considers the action of the state government as an affront of a dying horse and a deliberate attempt to provoke violent reactions from the good people of Osun State, thereby, instigating crisis in the state. It is a shame and a dent on the noble race of Yoruba nation that a governor living at the mercy of taxpayers’ money would find it convenient to descend so low. “It is elementary for any reasonable government to know that public facilities are meant for public use. The main bowl of the Osogbo City Stadium we applied to use for today’s rally for instance, had been put in place and adequately maintained by successive administrations in the state for use of our people even before Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola retraced his history to Osun State from Lagos for political trading. “It is, therefore, absurd and defeatist at that, for the governor to be playing pranks with the same people who have managed the state and the facilities before he was imposed on the state through a globally acknowledged stolen mandate. “Nigerians should know we chose a path of peace in this instance only for the sake of our people, especially the good people of Osogbo. We reckoned that it will be inhuman to add salt of anarchy Mr. Gboyega Oyetola is drifting towards out of frustration, to the injuries of his woeful and scandalous performance in the last four years. “We are not unaware that Mr. Gboyega Oyetola by his refusal to grant our party, the required permission to use the facility, was just only testing waters of the large scale violence he is planning against the state. We want to assure him and his cohorts that he would be matched. “Any attempt to subvert the electoral verdict of our people will be resisted as bona fide residents of the state. It will not be in his interest nor that of entire country to underestimate this resolve. “While we call on President Muhammadu Buhari to be awake about the crisis Oyetola is brewing in Osun State, we call on our people not to be discouraged by the defeatist antics of Mr. Oyetola and his baby vuvuzelas. This election is not just about the PDP or Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, but for the good of our people and humanity in general.”