Liverpool defender Nat Phillips has stressed regular first-team minutes remains his priority ahead of the upcoming 2022/23 season. Phillips spent the first half of last term on Merseyside and featured in the Champions League and League Cup for Jurgen Klopp’s side before sealing a loan move to Bournemouth during the January transfer window. This temporary switch proved to be a great success as the central defender featured 17 times as the Cherries secured automatic promotion to the Premier League. A permanent exit away from Anfield seemed likely to be the next logical step in Phillips’ career, despite signing a long-term contract at Liverpool last summer, but the ECHO revealed last month the Reds are considering a transfer re-think which would see the 25-year-old experience another loan move. Bournemouth is expected to again be his destination should the above situation materialise, which would see Phillips competing in the top-flight. Reflecting on his time on the south coast in an interview with liverpoolfc.com in Thailand, the Reds’ No.47 said: “I really enjoyed it. I enjoyed getting back on the pitch regularly again, I think that was important for me. It was nice to go in there with that goal of promotion and to achieve it at the end of the season. “[Playing regularly] is what all players want to do and obviously I had to go away to go and do that. I enjoyed it. It’s important for me to keep doing that at the age I am now. It was a good opportunity and I’m glad that I took it.” Phillips experienced the demands of serving as a first-choice option for Klopp’s side during the club’s injury-hit 2020/21 campaign, although he faces a battle on his hands for consistent opportunities due to the strength in depth Liverpool currently boast. Asked to outline his ambitions for the season ahead, he added: “Get a good pre-season in me, same as always; work hard and make sure I’ve got a good foundation for the season that’s coming up. At the end of pre-season see where I’m at. “Definitely in my case, but I think for all players, every pre-season is an opportunity for all players, young and old, to show what they can do, stake their claim. That’s the way you’ve got to approach it and maintain high levels throughout the pre-season going into the season.”