LOKOJA – Against the backdrop of high cost of wheat and sugar, the main in­gredients for the manufacture of bread and confectionery, the Mas­ter Bakers and Caterers Associ­ation of Nigeria has threatened to withdraw their services across the country. This is just as the Kogi State branch of the association has called on the state Governor, Al­haji Yahaya Bello, to step up ma­chinery to control the influx of all sorts of breads into the state, which has negatively impacted on their businesses. The Kogi State Chairman of the association, Chief Gabriel Bamidele Adeniyi, in a briefing held on Monday in Lokoja , said the association had no other op­tion than to embark on protest for two weeks, beginning from 20th July, 2022, to press home their demands. The chairman who disclosed that the group had met the feder­al government several times with a view to wade into the problem of importation of wheat and sugar, which is dominated by few companies without cogent actions. He said despite their recom­mendations to the government to liberalise the importation to include willing companies, the governor remained adamant in restricting the licence to few com­panies which could be the factor for escalating prices of flour and sugar. He said, besides the importa­tion bottlenecks, the association was faced with high incidence of over taxation by various government institutions which ultimately scale up their cost of production. He said in their earlier meet­ing with the Federal Govern­ment, the issue of home grown wheat production was exten­sively discussed, lamenting that there was no concrete steps taken so far in that direction. He said, their attempts to also have interface with the flour millers to consider their plights have been rebuffed, stressing that the high cost of the important ingredients in their production line has forced most members to close shops. POLL While justifying the option of service withdrawal, he decried the high cost of diesel and petrol which have gone above the roof and urged the government to ur­gently address the issue to save the industry from total collapse, with its attendant effect on fam­ilies. “I wish to inform the public and indeed customers and con­sumers that the National Sec­retariat of the Association has directed all chapters to comply unfailingly. “Since the ban on importation of flour, no serious effort has been made for home grown wheat as promised by the government and its relevant agency – the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. “We have requested for pallia­tive in form of soft loans or sub­sidies to bakers to enable them produce quality and affordable quantity bread for mass con­sumption, which was promised but not fulfilled. “These challenges facing the association are threatening pro­duction of affordable and quality bread in the country. “The commodity will there­fore be off the streets, markets, shops and dining table from 20th to 26th, July, 2922 to drive home the points raised for necessary action by government,” Adeniyi said. Adeniyi who appealed to Kogi State government to apply strict measures to control influx of bread to the state, hinted that it would take at least two days for bakers to move their consign­ments from one state to the other without being spoilt, hence the over concentration of preser­vatives which is harmful to the health of consumers. He added that besides health hazards, the influx has imposed on them inhibitive returns on supply, as retailers and distribu­tors have stopped direct payment for the supplies.