As Nigeria gears up for the 2023 general elections, the church has been tasked to pray fervently for the success of the polls in order to elect the credible people who will lead the nation to its glory. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for Abia Central Senatorial District, Col Austin Akobundu rtd made this appeal on Sunday at the All Saints Anglican Church, Ndoro Oboro in Ikwuano LGA of Abia State during the Ikwuano Diocese Synod thanksgiving service, According to him, the country is in a precarious situation and needed the intervention of men of God to restore sanity to it. The PDP Abia Central hopeful and who is also a former Minister of State Defence, described the church as a very vital segment of the society, saying that with fervent prayers, Nigeria will be rescued from the present state of hopelessness, decay and dilapidation. He pledged to assist the All Saints Anglican Church, Ndoro Oboro to tackle some of its challenges, even as he observed that despite the numerous security challenges, God has remained faithful in protecting Nigeria and its citizens from total destruction. In his homily at the service, the guest preacher, Rt. Rev Dr. Manasseh Okere, urged Christians to always worship God in truth and spirit, arguing that since God created man in His own image and after His likeness, He expects nothing order than dedicated service unto Him. On the theme of the Synod which is: “Pentecostal Power: The Secret of Mission and Worldwide Evangelism”, Rt Rev Okere who is also the Bishop of Ukwa Dioceses of the church, insisted that Christians must be accountable to their creator in order to make heaven. Earlier, the Anglican Bishop of the Ikwuano Diocese, Rt Rev Dr Chigozirim Onyebule had described Akobundu as a humane, dedicated and God-fearing child of God who has done some great jobs for the service of God and mankind. POLL The former minister also visited St. Peter’s Anglican Church; Nkata Ibeku in the Diocese of Umuahia, where he said told the congregants that as a child of God, he would not relent in supporting the programmes and activities of God, assuring that he will make his inputs towards the development of the church to the archdeacon. He described the archdeacon of the church, Ven. Chukwuemeka Oparaocha was a friend and dedicated man of God and assured that he would continue to identify with all the challenges confronting the church. The PDP Abia Central candidate used the opportunity to call for the continued prayers and support of the Anglican Communion for him, noting that their prayers will be very vital in his electoral victory. Earlier, Ven. Oparaocha had appreciated Akobundu and his entourage for identifying with the church. The highlights of the church services were the special prayers offered for Col. Akobundu and his entourage.