Countdown to the 2023 general election, Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has embarked on a sensitization walk to encourage eligible Nigerians to register/and or revalidate and obtain their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs). The Coalition has equally challenged Nigerian youths to get their PVCs to vote out politicians who have nothing to offer the citizenry instead of resorting to online and Facebook abuses against political opponents. The Director, Strategic Communications of the Coalition, Samaila Musa, speaking with journalists during a sensitization walk in Minna the state capital on Thursday said the call had become necessary to avoid overheating the polity. Samaola said the Walk tagged ‘Get Your PVC to Rescue and Rebuild Nigeria’, is aimed at drawing the attention of particularly the youths who are leaders of tomorrow to desist from learning the bad examples of present day leaders ahead of next year’s election. With the general election coming up in about eight months now, Ismaila said it is important to caution youths against all forms of social media abuses but to express their anger by getting their PVC and ensure they vote for credible leaders in the 2023 general elections. Nigerian youths own the country considering its numerical strength and voting power, hence the need for them to resist the temptations of also being used as destructive tools against the general clamor for a change in Nigeria’s political narratives. Also speaking, the Group’s Director on Political Affairs, Comrade Mohammed Mohammed said Niger state, the third lowest ranking in the online and registration with over 20, 000 unclaimed PVCs, describing the trend as very worrisome. The sensitization Walk according to Mohammed has become necessary because to change anything within the political system, citizens must arm themselves with their PVCs to effect a change that will stand the test of time. POLL While calling on both young and old from 18 years old and above to come out en masse to register and collect their PVC to enable them desired goals, Mohammed said Nigeria cannot afford to make the mistake of not getting it right in voting for credible leaders next year. The Board of Trustee Chairman of the Coalition, Dr. Nastura Ashir Sharif also in a remark, advised Nigerlites, Nigerians in general to get their PVCs ready and vote for credible leaders that has the interest of the country at heart and to vote into powers leaders who are ready to promote unity amongst the various tribal, regional or religious divides. He also appealed to the electorates to resist the temptations of selling their votes because, “vote buyers don’t mean well for the generality of Nigerians”