***As Obi Of Owa Kingdom, HRM, Dr. Emmanuel Efezeimor Urges Police To Support Local Vigilante Groups To Nab Kidnappers ***Delta Police Command pledges Partnership With Military, Other Security Agencies To Fish Out Hoodlums ASABA – Delta State Commissioner of Police, CP Ari Muhammed Ali (FCIA, PSC), has said that the Command will work in synergy with the Military and other Security Agencies in the State to fish out hoodlums, Kidnappers terrorizing the State, while he assured the residents of Ika Nation, its environs and Delta State in general of adequate security as they go about their businesses. Delta Commissioner of Police made this remark in a release today the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe who related to the media, yesterday’s visit of the Command being on 1st of July, 2022 on the spot assessment of the security situations at the Agbor Railway Station. Delta CP assured the Monarchs of Ika Nation and Deltans in general of Adequate Security and Safety of residents and passengers boarding the train to their different destinations. The Statement reads in parts: “Commissioner of Police Delta State Police Command has assured residents of Ika south, Ika North east LGA, and other citizens who travel to and from the State via the Railway Station located at Agbor, of adequate security and safety”. “CP Ari Muhammed Ali stated this on Friday 1st July 2022 when he visited the Railway Station at Owa Ewere in Ika North East LGA in company of the Assistant Commissioner of Police Operations, ACP Sa’ad Ibrahim, the Area Commander Agbor, ACP Friday Idachaba, and the Commanding officer Army 181 Aphibions Agbor, for an ‘on the spot’ assessment of the security situation in the area”. “The first point of call by the CP was the railway crossing by Emuhu in Ika-South, Benin-Asaba express way where these hoodlums sometimes kidnapped their victims and take them to the bush. Other places visited by the CP includes the third power line by Boji-Boji Owa, Idumuesah in Owa Alero road, and the Agbor Railway Station.” -Advertisement- POLL ” After assessing the security situation and arrangements, he then paid a courtesy visit to HRM Obi Dr. Emmanuel O. Efeizomor II (JP) the OBI of Owa-oyibu and the Dein of Agbor, HRM Benjamin Ikenchuku (Keagborekuzi I). During the courtesy, issues bothering on the kidnapping trend within their Kingdoms were discussed and solutions were proffered”. HRM, Obi Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor, the Obi of Owa Kingdom has enjoined the State Government and Delta Police Command to provide technical support and empower the local vigilantes, that the Police cannot be everywhere at the same time. He also noted that, series of meetings are ongoing with a view to fishing out the moles in the Community that is conspiring with these hoodlums. CP Ari Mohammed Ali then assured the two Monarchs that, the Command will work in synergy with the military and other security agencies as all modalities have been put place to ensure that this ugly trend is brought to a halt, while the Command assured residents of the area and passengers boarding the train to and from Delta State of adequate safety and protection.