Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has said that he will continue to work closely with the people of Isiala Ngwa South Local Government Area of the state, even as he assured them that they will not be left behind in the scheme of things in the last lap of his administration. The governor stated this when he played host to a delegation of the traditional and political leaders of Isiala Ngwa South at his country home, Umuobiakwa in Obingwa LGA. The Abia governor disclosed that apart from a negligible few, he has enjoyed the full support, cooperation and confidence of the people, saying that he will always reciprocate their good gestures towards his administration. He, therefore, challenged the people to give full support to the PDP candidate, Professor Uche Ikonne and other candidates of the PDP in all the 2023 general elections, using forum to thank them for their support through the years. Ikpeazu vowed to remain their political and traditional allies even after leaving office. Speaking earlier, the Executive Chairman of Isiala Ngwa South LGA, Chief Ike Anyatonwu said that they came to show solidarity with him and used the opportunity to thank Ikpeazu for his numerous interventions both in infrastructure and in human capital development of the people. According to him, specific areas of mention include road construction as well as the inclusion of sons and daughters of Isiala Ngwa South in positions of authority in his government. Anyatonwu named such positions as Speaker of the State Assembly, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Head of Service, Commissioner for Finance, Permanent Secretaries, Accountant General of the State, Deputy Chief of Staff in the Office of the Deputy Governor, Executive Secretary of the Abia State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Program Manager, Abia ADP. POLL He also thanked the governor for ensuring that the Federal Government Smart School Project was sited at Umuajuju, Okporo Ahaba in Isiala Ngwa North LGA, adding that in the history of the local government, no other administration has identified with Isiala Ngwa South people than Ikpeazu administration. The council boss, therefore, assured the governor that the people of Isiala Ngwa South will not only support in full, the emergence of Professor Ikonne as his successor, but will support all candidates of the PDP in the 2023 elections. Leaders on the delegation included a former Speaker of the State Assembly and former Presidential aspirant of the PDP, Rt Hon Chikwendu Kalu, former Chief of Staff to the Governor and candidate for Isiala Ngwa North/Isiala Ngwa South Federal Constituency, Prof ACB Agbazuere, State Head of Service, Sir Onyii Wamah, Acting Leader of the Stakeholders Forum, Chief John Erendu, the PDP House of Assembly candidate, Hon. Rowland Ceasar Chinwendu and other personalities.