Since its inception, the Nigerian National Legacy Awards have proven commitment to saluting the tenacity of some select few individuals who over the years have shown exemplary leadership and distinct achievements in their various fields of endeavor. The NNLA through the Nigerian National Legacy Prize for Industry Excellence aims to recognize individuals who have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to improving service excellence standards and partnerships with various stakeholders of the Nigerian Industrial sector with the oil and gas industry as a strong reference point. The Nigerian National Legacy Awards honors individuals and companies for their ability to demonstrate and stimulate innovation as well as contribute to industry growth.With the support of leading media partners, the NNLA has become one of the most prestigious awards in Africa. Achievements in various categories are assessed by an esteemed jury of industry professionals and media experts who focus on management commitment, industry Innovation, Corporate Social Responsibility and Leadership. The 2022 edition of the Nigerian National Legacy Prize for Industry Excellence had only 14 open award categories which began with a series of nominations across the country that saw a total of 426 persons nominated for the prestigious awards, the highest recorded by the NNLA since its inception. 60 nominees from a total of 426 initial nominees were shortlisted for the 2022 Prize for Industry Excellence. With a blend of individuals from the public service and private sector, the 2022 legacy Prize displays an array of individuals who have not only created a niche for themselves but proven that hard work and diligence are key to the development of any society. Below is the profile of some of the 2022 Nigerian National Legacy Prize for Industry Excellence recipients. Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Engr Simbi K. WaboteHe was appointed as the Executive Secretary Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) by President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) on the 29th of September 2016. Before his appointment, he was an Executive Director of Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) Nigeria Limited and the General Manager of Business and Government Relations for Shell Companies in Nigeria (SCiN). Minister of State for Transportation, Sen. Gbemisola Ruqayyah SarakiShe is currently the Minister of State for Transportation of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and a former senator representing the Kwara Central Senatorial District in the year 2003. She was elected into the House of Representatives in 1999 representing Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency, Kwara State. As a legislator from 2003-2011, she was a member of several committees. Comptroller-General, Nigeria Customs Services, Col. Hameed Ibrahim AliHameed Ibrahim Ali (born 15 January 1955) is the current Comptroller General of the Nigerian Customs Service. A retired military officer, he previously served as Military Governor of Kaduna State from 1996 to 1998. After retirement, he became Secretary of the Arewa Consultative Forum – a political and cultural association of leaders in Northern Nigeria. -Advertisement- POLL Founder, Credo Consults Ltd, Engr. Somkwe John NwosuHe is the founder of Credo Consults Limited. He is a solution-oriented strategist and business development expert with experience cutting across various sectors. He has an MBA from the Bradford University School of Management (UK). He also has a Post Graduate Diploma in Management Consultancy from the Institute of Management Consulting (UK) and a Bachelor in Electrical/Electronic Engineering from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri. Somkwe has had extensive work experience in the commercial banking sector. MD, Telmek Global Resources, Ms Thelma Chukwu Thelma is NNLA’s youngest award nominee since its inception. She is a serial entrepreneur, dogged Investor, and the Managing Director at Telmek Global Resources, an Indigenous fast-growing oil and gas servicing company in Nigeria. Studied Economics at the University of Portsmouth in England. Prior to starting her own chain of companies, she has built a strong background in finance. She worked as an equity sales and trading analyst for Primera Africa Finance Group, and as an investment banker with Chapel Hill Advisory Partners Limited before moving into the Oil & Gas industry. CEO, Stein Energy Ltd, Engr Otemu Einstein. Igho ( MSPE)Engr Otemu Einstein Igho is a Petroleum Engineering graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State Nigeria. He Founded Stein Energy Ltd an aviation refueling company in 2018 offering several services such as plane fuelling, and aircraft refueling services for both fixed and rotary-wing operators. Before starting up his company, he was head of aviation and technical engineering at Acorn Petroleum Plc, where he rose through the ranks.The exposure he got as an aircraft refueller from working with major multinationals (Nigerian Agip Oil Company, Exxon Mobil and Chevron) prepared him massively for the business he finds himself in today. MD, Ampal Construction Nig ltd, Mr Micheal Amadi OrwuMichael Amadi Orwu was born on the 26th of August 1982. He is a Nigerian entrepreneur and Philanthropist. He is an astutebusiness owner, citing reputable companies including Victoria Creek Gardens Estate Limited, Ampal, Construction Nigeria Limited, Creekside Logistics Limited and founder Michael Amadi Orwu Foundation.In 2021, Orwu was recognized as one of the “40 UNDER 40 CEO IN NIGERIA”, by the YoungEntrepreneur International Summit Team. In January 2022 his net worth was valued at $500million.He runs his philanthropic works through the Michael Amadi Orwu Foundation (Gates of Hopes) established in 2020. He promotes the right for every newborn child to live and have hope to be great.The Michael Amadi Orwu Foundation believes that there is a need to stop dumping newborns at dumpsters, and rather bring them to the Gates of Hopes where they are given a chance to live.The criteria for selection of the 2022 recipients are based on reports carried out periodically by a team of industry analysts drawn from various works of life with a vast majority from the media. The selection criteria are based on information, polls and voting. Voting is done by a ten-man jury team. The award is presented to recipients for corporate achievements to recognize prestige, innovation, leadership, quality and innovative technology. For this purpose nominations for the Nigerian National Legacy Prize for Industry Excellence are carried out by the Nigerian public but vetting and voting are done by the NNLA’s team of Jury who subjects all nominees to a thorough and merit-based evaluation. The coming days promise to be very interesting, as more recipients for the 2o22 Prize for Industry Excellence will be unveiled by the Nigerian National Legacy Awards Team.