LAGOS -The patrons, members of the Board of Trustees (BoT), the executive and members of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) last Monday, June 27, 2022, visited Vice President Yemi Osibanjo at Aso Rock, Abuja. Speaking during the meeting, the COMTUA helmsmen, led by Mr. Adeyinka T. Aroyewun, presented their collaboration, the new executives and their scorecard to the nation’s number two citizen. Speaking at the occasion, Aroyewun explained that the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA), as of today is a collaboration of over 10 transport unions and associations as well as critical stakeholders in the maritime and transport industry. COMTUA, he said, was borne out of the desire to bring the different stakeholders in the industry together for the good of the industry. According to him, “It (COMTUA) has come a long way harmonising most of its predecessors’ unions and associations to become the voice of majority of the stakeholders in the industry such as the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Flourmill Nigeria Transport Limited, BUA Transport Nig. Limited, Dangote Transport Nigeria Limited, The Great Pyramid, Ayodele Vista, Emma Dunamis, The Lord is my Strength, Containers Truck Owners Association of Nigeria, Almagamated Containers Transport Owners, Truckers and Carriers Association of Nigeria, among several others.” Aroyewun noted that at the height of the traffic gridlock in the port industry in Lagos, Osinbajo visited to inspect the area, a presidential intervention task team was created and the vice president graciously honoured this collaboration with the selection of some of our members into the committee named Presidential Task Team. The COMTUA boss said: “We appreciate you sir. On November 5, 2021, COMTUA held its national convention that brought a new executive council into existence. These executives, having taken off with the enormous task of leadership felt it is necessary to present itself before you and this is what has prompted this courtesy visit. “Mr. Vice President Sir, the greatest concern in the maritime industry today is the issue of ease of doing business. Every person knows that it is the wish of the government that the cost of doing business in the nation’s port should be at barest minimum for the interest of the economy and the nation as a whole. -Advertisement- POLL “In our segment of the industry, the challenges militating against the ideals of ease of doing business stem from the operational and policy issues, ranging from the challenges of empty containers’ return, poor road infrastructure, inadequacies on the part of terminal operators, shipping lines, traffic gridlock and the failure of the recent ETO project with the accompanying enforcement team to address the grid lock. “We sincerely appreciate the recently concluded construction of roads between Ijora and Apapa, the ongoing road construction between Apapa/Oshodi express road and the Mile 2/Sunrise area. We always wish to express our gratitude to this administration for the quality of roads we have on the Sunrise to Tin Can axis of the port corridor.” He stressed that the advent of Electronic Call Up System introduced by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) was welcomed with all enthusiasm as to bring relief to at least 80% of suffering in the industry, “but unfortunately, the reverse is the case by our judgment going by the performance of the handlers i. e PTT. “The project has not only failed to bring about the desired relief, but has been concerned with revenue generation, not only exorbitantly and arbitrarily, it encourages the enrichment of its cronies like the pre gates and other obnoxious policies. “The operation and modus operandi of the enforcement team has only been successful in encouraging rather than eliminate extortion.” He maintained that the enforcement team, by its composition and activities, drag along such sub-agencies like the Lagos State Taskforces and committees whose roles have been detrimental to their property, adding that hijacking and illegal towing of trucks had been the article of trade of the teams. “This enforcement team seems biased as it is only active in areas of unlawfully punishing truckers, on issues such as empty containers returning and empty containers holding bays. “Activities are not holistically monitored such that Extortion thrives well in several forms, while truckers are left to suffer unjustly in the hands of law enforcement agents.” Aroyewun maintained that COMTUA’s other concern is in the cost of diesel and spare parts. This, he said, was brought about by several economic factors. He said that while the cost of diesel increases daily, his members had been finding it difficult to remain in business. He stated: “Our members have lost businesses to foreign haulage companies. These companies are more protected by policies. These companies secure the jobs directly from countries of origin, thereby denying us direct and profitable jobs. “We suffer unjust detention of our trucks in the hands of the Nigerian Customs. While offending cargoes and agents are released, our trucks are detained for years and sometimes auctioned. We are often ignorant of the contents of cargoes. The delay in delivery of export cargoes is also a problem in the industry.” The COMTUA boss stressed that it might not be possible to catalog all the issues bothering its segment of the industry in a piece, but maintained that all had not been well with the haulage business in the maritime sector. He however, expressed optimism for better days ahead, adding, “To this, we have always endeavoured to be part of the solutions to the maladies in our industry. We are law abiding and have always gone about our business in orderliness, lawfully and hope to remain so. Aroyewun went further: “In view of the foregoing, we are bringing some of the following humble suggestions for your kind consideration in resolving the challenges of the industry. It is our opinion that the monopoly of TTP to ETO be broken, by unbundling the system, competition would usher in improvement. It is even obvious that the situation on ground has not brought the expected dividends. May be citing the Nitel experience is suffice. “Secondly Creation of a dedicated enforcement team including members of our trucking community is advocated, there is a saying that you cannot shave one’s head in his absence. This enforcement team shall take up the movement and routes of Maritime trucks. Every other enforcement agents should leave Maritime truck routes and dismantle all road blocks and check points in the system. “Thirdly, a special monitoring shall be put in place including members of this trucking community to monitor the activities, facilities, stakeholders performance, including shipping lines, terminal operators, holding bays, operation and reports back to the Your Excellency for address. “We seek the discouragement of every balkanising agencies in unification efforts of the trucking community. Possibly a deliberate policy to unify the industry is advocated. “There should be non-denial of any party the right to benefit of the dividend of the process where it occurs. There should be justice and equity as everyone is under same Nation. Your Excellency Sir, our prayers are for you to use your good offices to effect the following: “The revitalisation of the Presidential task team, where the relevant stakeholders including our trucking unions and Associations are members. “Secondly, the support for our union in the implementation of our local call-up arrangement in partnership with relevant agencies viś-à-viś the Nigerian Port Authority, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council and the Ministry of Transportation. Apparently, unbundling the current exorbitant ETO system. Also sought was the forensic audit of the ETO past activities since there are several alleged irregularities as well as the refund of all monies illegally and unduly collected by ETO and the payment of amounts due to all parties in the ETO arrangement. The Coalition called on the Federal Government to be alive to regulations of traffic movements within the federal roads leading to the ports. It also urged the government to look into the activities and qualifications of the terminal operators, shipping lines and other agencies with stakes in the industry for proper monitoring as well as keeping them alive to their duties. COMTUA also sought a deliberate efforts to carry members of the trucking community along in policy formulations in the sector by the relevant agencies of government. Aroyewun in his conclusion stated that the association would appreciate Osinbajo’s support and assistance in their business. He also expressed the hope that the visit to the vice president would mark a turning point in the search for solutions for the numerous challenges in the country. In his response, Vice President Osinbajo who appreciated the visit, promised that the government and the Minister of State would meet with COMTUA and revert within two weeks In the delegation were Richard Uzoegbu (PRO), Adekoyeni Ademola (Welfare) and four BoT members, Alhaji Isiaka Olalere, Chief Jelili Sanni, Mr. Adeyanju Abraham and Mr. Kelvin Chinedu. Also present was the Minister of State for Transport, Senator Gbemi Saraki.