Operatives of the Nation­al Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have intercepted 22 blocks of heroin weighing 23.55 ki­logrammes concealed in packs of Nestle Cerelac baby food at the Murtala Muhammed Internation­al Airport (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos. A statement by Femi Babafemi, Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA, said the consignment with a street value of over N4.5 billion came from Johan­nesburg, South Africa, on board South African Air­ways flight on Wednesday, June 29, as part of a consol­idated cargo that arrived the SAHCO import shed of the Lagos airport. It said after series of follow up operations that led to the arrest of two freight agents, the actual receiver of the drug con­signment, Chike Okeke Eweni, who distributes the substance for his South Africa based partner was arrested the following day, Thursday, June 30, at a lo­gistics warehouse in Ajao Estate, Ikeja. Chike, who hails from Anaocha LGA, Anambra State, claims during preliminary in­terview that he’s also into fish farming, according to the statement. “Before the arrest of Chike, NDLEA officers at the airport had on Monday 27th June arrested a for­mer driver with a public transport company, BRT, Muyiwa Babalola Bolujo­ko, for ingesting 90 pellets of cocaine. He was arrested at the screening point be­fore boarding a Qatar Air­ways flight en route Doha to Sharjah, with his trip expected to terminate in Dubai, UAE. “The 39-year-old from Ijebu South LGA, Ogun State, was placed under excretion observation after body scan result confirmed drug ingestion. While in custody, the suspect excret­ed all the 90 pellets in four excretions. He claimed he left his N60, 000 per month job as BRT driver in Feb­ruary and decided to work as drug courier to raise funds to buy a shuttle bus popularly called ‘Korope’ in Lagos to continue his trans­port business. “Operatives also on Thursday 30th June inter­cepted an inbound consign­ment of khat leaves, which arrived the NAHCO import shed of the Lagos airport on Royal Air Maroc flight from the Middle East. A total of 71 cartons of dried khat leaves with a gross weight of 2,434.3 kg were discovered in the cargo. “In the same vein, an­ti-narcotic officers of the agency also last Thursday seized 36 parcels of Colo­rado, a variant of canna­bis with a total weight of 19.30kg which arrived the NAHCO import shed from Los Angeles, U.S. on a Delta Airlines flight. After series of follow up operations in which four persons were arrested, the actual owner of the drug consignment, Abibu Afis Sola, was eventually nabbed on Friday 1st July in Gbagada area of Lagos”, the statement said. -Advertisement- POLL Meanwhile, in Rivers State, NDLEA operatives on Wednesday, June 29, ar­rested a 68-year-old wom­an, Mrs. Celina Ekeke, at Obunku community, Oyig­bo LGA, with 231.2kg can­nabis, while one Shedrack Eze was arrested the follow­ing day, Thursday, June 30, at Yankarfe, Zaria, Kaduna State, with 250,000 tablets of Exol 5, weighing 75kg. In Borno State, Usman Haru­na, 27, was arrested at BCG checkpoint in Biu on Satur­day, July 2, with 19.7kg can­nabis, the statement noted.