Crack comedian Con musician, Koffi Idowu Nuel from Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos State, is a downto- earth mortal. This acquired disposition borne out of self-discipline may have turned out to be his propelling force till date as a celebrated comedian and musician. In a recent breath-taking close-up on him, the multi-talented Koffi, who has taken the music business as serious as comedy with the formation of his workman group, took off the lid during this interview, revealing his background, how he plunged into comedy and music, climbing into focus, the magic of his staying power and other titillating exposé which IFECHI OKOH captured like a crack reporter. Here is vintage Koffi laid bare for all!! Who is Koffi that fans don’t actually know beyond the stage? Koffi Idowu Nuel, who is a graduate of chemistry from UNILAG is a Nigerian father, precisely from Ibeju Lekki in Lagos State, while his mother is from Togoland, hence the name Koffi. I speak the Togolese language which is Ewe (Evwe). My romance with comedy started from UNILAG when I joined the university theater 15, where I was introduced to acting. I set out as a stage actor from there, I took a dive into comedy which, have since become the source of survival. How did the journey into music and comedy start? It all began when I left the university. I remembered that I set out doing comedy and surviving on it for years until music came into the picture along the line. So I managed to blend them and effectively too, as expected. I thank God for making this possible and ensuring that I excelled in both. What does it take to become a comedian and musician at the same time? Talent! I mean real talent to combine them effectively and excel at the same time!! In my own case, both appeared to be pretty easy because I read and wrote a lot unlike most of my colleagues who love to party or drink most time. My disposition has since accustomed me, transforming me into an introvert. I hardly step out of my room then to the parlour as a result. What am I looking for when I have a lot to read and write about?  Although, music is more of a hobby than comedy. It is some years ago that I started taking music seriously, leading to the invitation of some talented people to form “Workerman movement”. The group is only involved in music in all ramifications. We also tried to redefine music, thereby projecting ourselves. We have an album in the market. It is titled “All eyes open widely”. The title is so, because it is to create an awareness for people to be conscious of their environment, especially in these trying and dynamic times when things are changing to our disadvantage. Take, for instance, the dicey situation in Nigeria. Do we have to close our eye to such a situation which obviously puts our lives on the line? It is of course no! -Advertisement- POLL How and when did the breakthrough come? Breakthrough? Not yet! As far as I am concerned, there is yet to be a breakthrough, because I am still hustling. Forget my car, where I leave now because they don’t really depict breakthrough in its real sense. What stands you out as a top comedian? I am not the loud-mouth type, talking too much. I am a comedian whom fans know, respect and salute for the way and manner I have be conducting myself. I adopted that style and maintained it after watching most of the top comedians have devalued themselves for the love of loud mouth and talking too much for the fun of it. It is terrible and pitiably malaise! I still remembered vividly some years ago when my colleague, “I GO DIE” really got himself into serious trouble for clerking a joke that rubbished the military authorities then. He was allegedly given a beating of his life, perhaps to teach others a lesson they actually need so much against next time. 