Rangers defender Calvin Bassey has chosen to join Ajax and the deal is expected to be completed in the next few days, The Athletic understands. The deal will guarantee Rangers over £20million. When performance-related bonuses are taken into consideration, the transfer fee could come to rival Kieran Tierney’s move from Celtic to Arsenal, which amounted to £25million. It is understood a 10 per cent sell-on has also been negotiated. Several Premier League clubs, including Aston Villa, West Ham United and Brighton & Hove Albion, were very keen on the Nigeria international, with other sides from Italy Portugal, France and Germany also admirers. But it is understood Rangers made it clear to other clubs what ballpark they were negotiating in, which led to several enquiries being immediately rejected. The 22-year-old signed from Leicester for £230,000 two years ago and until November was mostly used as a reserve left-back to Borna Barisic. But Bassey’s performances in central defence on the road to the Europa League final caught the attention of clubs all over Europe and he will now become Rangers’ record transfer sale. Bassey had numerous options but it is understood that he has chosen Ajax due to their history of developing young players and the opportunity to continue playing regular first-team football. POLL The Dutch side were awaiting the exit of Lisandro Martinez before they could intensify their interest. Talks have progressed with Rangers sporting director Ross Wilson in recent days and the outline of a deal was negotiated, meaning Bassey was left out of the squad that faced Blackpool in Saturday’s 2-1 friendly victory. It will be the most Ajax have ever spent on a defender and will comfortably break the £16.5million fee Rangers received for Nathan Patterson in January. It is just over two weeks until Rangers play their opening Champions League qualifier with pre-season friendlies to come against West Ham and Tottenham Hotspur. Van Bronckhorst has brought in five players this summer but Bassey’s imminent exit will leave him with another gap in the squad to fill, after Joe Aribo was sold this month to Southampton for a package worth up to £10 million in total. New York City FC loanee James Sands started alongside Connor Goldson in Bassey’s absence as ​​Rangers beat Blackpool, while Barisic scored the opening goal from left-back. John Souttar made his debut as a second half substitute and 18 year-old defender Leon King also got 45 minutes under his belt. But with Leon Balogun having left after his contract expired and Filip Helander suffering a fresh injury, Bassey’s departure means Van Bronckhorst will have the funds to go back into the market for potentially one or two defenders.