The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) has dismissed reports in sections of the media that it has nominated a running mate for its presidential candidate, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso. The party described the news as ‘speculation,’ insisting that it will unveil the candidate for its Vice President (VP) position before the end of the day (Thursday). National Publicity Secretary of the party, Agbo Major, in an SMS to Daily Independent said, “It is speculation for now but we will revert before the end of the day to unveil our VP candidate. Thanks, my brother.” The Punch on Thursday reported that Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso was considering a serving governor and three others as his running mate, The newspaper said those under consideration include Kingsley Moghalu, Madam Charity from Bayelsa State, and Bishop Isaac Idahosa from Edo State. The speculation may not be unconnected to a recent announcement by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that two political parties are yet to upload their nominations for the 2023 presidential election. INEC National Commissioner in charge of the Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, on Wednesday identified the two parties as the New Nigeria People’s Party and the African Action Congress. He said that the political parties have three days the nomination of candidates for the election. POLL According to him, INEC has since processed 6,995 nomination forms uploaded by 16 out of 18 political parties for the constituencies where they intend to sponsor candidates. “However, two political parties, the African Action Congress (AAC) and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), are yet to upload a single nomination to the portal,” he said. “The Commission hereby reminds all political parties that they have three days left to upload their list of candidates to the ICNP. The deadline is Friday 15th July 2022. The portal will automatically shut down at 6.00 pm on that date. “The number of requests processed has now risen to 1,662,987 pages of documents. Sadly, in spite of the Commission’s effort, 147 out of 476 requests processed as of today involving 5,646 pages are yet to be collected by applicants. “The Commission appeals to prospective litigants to come forward and collect the certified copies of the documents.”