Akwa Ibom State Government has again called on the youths to develop a passion for agriculture to tame down the current craving for undue political activism and involvement in criminality. Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo who made the advocacy in Uyo on Thursday said the call was in line with the policy of the administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel to prioritise the agricultural sector, as the mainstay of its rural economy. Ekpo who stated this while declaring open a 2-day South-South Zonal Sensitization Workshop on Implementation of Food Systems Transformation Pathways further revealed that the State government has recorded an impactful revolution in the agricultural sector. He listed some of such impacts to include the establishment of a coconut refinery and cocoa fermentation & drying centre in the state. Represented by his Chief Press Secretary, Pastor Ekikere Umoh, the Deputy Governor urged participants to look beyond the issue of accessibility of food to associated issues of nutrition such as facilitating increased consumption of diverse, nutritious and safe foods. .In her remarks, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Dr Offiong Offor noted that the event was a follow-up to the United Nations call for effective and feasible pathways to sustainable, resilient and equitable food systems for Nigeria as a means of realizing the vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Offor said the summit was a continuation of the zonal exploratory dialogue on the UN Food Summit held last year in Calabar and was aimed at providing solutions to ways of implementing the resolution earlier agreed upon during the previous session. She expressed confidence that the deliberation will not only provide an opportunity for the collaboration of Akwa Ibom with other States in the zone but will further foster understanding and appreciation of the responsibilities of all towards food sufficiency. POLL The Commissioner commended Governor Udom Emmanuel for giving Agriculture its rightful position in the State as exemplified in the distribution of farm inputs, interest-free loans, capacity development workshops and numerous other assistance to farmers. “The State government has ensured value addition by the establishment of agro-based industries for the production of virgin coconut oil, processing of rice, flour, among others,” she stated. She, therefore, urged the participants to key into the vision of investing and encouraging the people to come to terms with the fact that agriculture plays a vital role in poverty reduction and economic growth. The National Convener, Mrs Olusola Idowu, represented by the Director of Administration, Federal Ministry of Finance, Mr Omotayo Adeyemi, said the meeting was aimed at proffering solutions in tackling challenges encountered in the implementation of recommendations earlier reached in order to strengthen the food systems in Nigeria. In his keynote statement, the United Nations/International Fund for Agricultural Development Representative, Mr Oguniyi Adebayo, commended the Federal government for the consistent efforts in ensuring that food systems were improved and urged all to embrace the vision of transforming the food systems pathways in the nation.