***Inspects Polytechnic Projects LOKOJA – The Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Adoza Bello, has described the Rector of kogi Polytechnics, Dr Usman Salisu Ogbo, as the face of his administration, for his giant stride in the institution. Governor Bello made the adulation on Friday when he visited the institution as part of his projects inspection tours in the State. The Governor said the Rector’s laudable performance has justified his appointment and further proven the GYB Standard in all sectors. He stressed that the Rector’s performance is a clear reflection that Youths involvement in governance is one of the best ways to achieve greater results. Governor Bello disclosed that his administration would continue to run an all-inclusive government devoid of tribe, religion and class, and focusing on capacity, ability, commitment and service to the State and humanity. He appreciated the contractors handling the Polytechnic projects for the good job done, just as he also charged them to complete the projects within the specified period. The Governor also commended the students of the Polytechnic for their diligence and orderliness and charged them to always remain on the side of the law, shun any act of cultism and other social vices. -Advertisement- POLL He reiterated his administration’s commitment to unbroken academic calendar and conducive environment for teaching and learning which would make students from Kogi State owned institutions to compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world. Earlier in his remark, the Rector, Kogi State Polytechnic, Dr. Salisu Ogbo Usman, appreciated His Excellency for the visit and the opportunity to serve in that capacity, and emphasised that the institution would not have achieved so much in the areas of infrastructure and quality assurance without the Governor’s continued support. Dr. Usman said the focus of the management in driving the Polytechnic to meet the global standard was the initiation of the ‘GYB Model’ which is transparency, accountability, unhindered commitment to work and service to humanity. Dr. Usman promised the Governor that entire Polytechnic community would reciprocate his good gestures of implementation of staff promotion and recruitment of new staff which resulted in the hundred percent success accreditation results, by sustaining quality teaching, outstanding students performance and conducive teaching and learning atmosphere. The projects inspected by the Governor are; a storey building Administrative Complex, a storey building for the School of Sciences, a storey building for the School of Environmental Technology, a storey building for the School of Art, Design and Printing, a 200 Capacity Twin Lecture Theatre, Computer Based Centre which were all initiated and virtually completed under his administration as well as the renovated student hostels, among others.