DAMATURU – The Director-General National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier-General MK Fadah has commended Corps Members for exhibiting high level of patriotism during the 2022 Batch ‘B’ Stream I Orientation Course. He made the applaud in an address during the closing ceremony of the orientation course in Dazigau Orientation Camp, Nangere Local Government Area of Yobe State and was represented by the State Coordinator NYSC Yobe State, Mrs Hafsat Yerima.”I wish to commend your patriotic zeal as demonstrated by your participation in Camp activities and exhibition of high level of discipline”. According to him, “My dear compatriots, as you begin the next phase of the Service Year, I urge you to sustain the spirit of patriotism, hard work and resilience which you imbibed during the Orientation Course. It is my ardent hope that you will strive to meet the expectations of Nigerians by contributing towards the progress and development of our fatherland”. “Your letters of posting to Places of Primary Assignment will be handed to you soon after this ceremony. In this regard, I would like to remind you of your oath of allegiance in which you pledged to accept posting in good faith. I enjoin you to perform your duties with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and Bye-Laws as well as workplace rules and regulations. In keeping with the objectives of the Scheme, you are expected to integrate into your host communities while also appreciating and respecting their cultures. I must, however, emphasize that engagement in their local politics is a no-go-area for you. Furthermore, I enjoin you to undertake personal and group Community Development Service (CDS) projects that will help to uplift the living standard of the people of your host communities”. The NYSC Boss also said”I have received impressive reports on your participation in the entrepreneurial trainings conducted in Camp under the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme. I encourage you to build on the skills acquired by availing yourselves of opportunities for post-camp training as this will go a long way in empowering you for self-reliance. On our part, we are liaising with financial institutions and other stakeholders with a view to providing start-up loans to enable you actualize your business dreams. I wish to assure you that Management will continue to explore avenues for optimizing the impact of the programme”. “My dear Corps Members, as you proceed to your Places of Primary Assignment, I urge you to be security conscious at all times. You should avoid acts that can endanger your lives such as staying out late, attending night parties, visitation of dangerous places, and acceptance of car ride from strangers. You can be rest assured that Management remains committed to your security and general welfare. Accordingly, we are in constant liaison with security agencies and other stakeholders with the view to ensuring your safety as well as addressing other essential needs for a fulfilling service year”. “At all times, you should be good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as your families and institutions of graduation. Therefore, you must be wary of acts that portray negative image of the Scheme, especially vices such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime and Advanced-Fee-Fraud. Also remember that your membership of the Service Corps does not confer on you immunity from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. I, therefore, enjoin you to continue to be law-abiding while also serving as role models for the younger ones”. “I urge you to avoid using the social media for ethnic jingoism, rumour peddling and the promotion of hatred. Instead, your activities online should be targeted at self-improvement as well as promotion of the unity, peace and prosperity of our dear country. In the same vein, avoid being speculative on issues affecting the NYSC and, instead, visit our website, social media platforms and other official channels for clarifications”. -Advertisement- POLL “At this juncture, I would like to reiterate our warning against unauthorized journeys and night trips. Travelling at night will not only increase the risk of accident, but also make rescue difficult. You are, therefore, advised to always cut short your trips from six o’clock in the evening and pass the night at NYSC Lodges, military barracks and other locations officially designated as safe. Furthermore, you should board vehicles only at approved motor parks so as to avoid falling prey to criminals”. “Let me use this opportunity to remind you that the COVID-19 prevention protocols are not meant to be observed in the Orientation Camp only. With your level of awareness of the virus, I am confident that you would continue to be on your guard everywhere you find yourselves while also helping to sensitize members of your host communities. May I also remind you of the need to take full dose of the COIVD-19 vaccines so as to prevent the spread of the disease in our respective communities”. “I consider it appropriate to once again appeal to Corps Employers to always accept Corps Members posted to them, and make the necessary provisions for their welfare. In addition, I urge you to mentor them properly to enable them develop their potentials. I also call on other stakeholders, including State and Local Government authorities as well as traditional rulers, to give the necessary encouragement to the Corps members”. “Let me use this medium to thank the Federal Government for its unwavering support for the Scheme. Our appreciation also goes to State Governments, Local Government Councils, Security Agencies, the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, the National Agency for the Control of AIDS, traditional rulers, Corps Employers and other stakeholders whose support have contributed to our successes over the years”. “Finally , it is now my pleasure to declare the 2022 Batch ‘B’ Stream I Orientation Course closed. I wish you a very impactful and rewarding service year”.