PORT HARCOURT – Amidst the wide range agitation against the decision of the All Progressives Congress, APC, presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu to pick another Muslim as his running mate, Nigerians have been enjoined to keep fate with the former national leader of the party. Speaking on this development, former representative of Rivers South-East Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has given reasons why he will stand by the decision of the Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, to pick former Borno State Governor, Ibrahim Shettima as his running-mate despite the fact that both of them belong to the same religion. Abe, who stated this while speaking on Arise Television programme on Thursday, said the APC Vice Presidential candidate, has a track record of competence. He said: “Let me say that he is on record as somebody who has supported people for offices, and positions and everything without minding what religion, and how they worship their God. “So, this is a man who already has a track record of bringing people together and I believe that Nigerians should give him an opportunity to do what he knows how to do best, which is to bring people together and get the best out of them. I think that is the part that he is on. “Those who are making the allegations that the only reason he picked Shettima is because of religion, if I am to be very honest, I think they are childish. “If you know Shettima and have heard about him and his track record, there is nobody I have heard who has complained or said that he is incompetent, or he is incapable, or he is not cerebral enough. Those are the qualities that we are looking for. “That is the reason why he was chosen. So, for those who are upset about it, my appeal to them would just to give this man a chance. He knows what he is doing, let us give him a chance to do what he knows how to do best.” POLL The senator stated that the fact that Tinubu’s wife of over 40 years, is a Christian shows his high level of religious tolerance. Abe said: “Senator Oluremi Tinubu is a Pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God and she is his partner for forty-something years. She is closer to him than anybody else. She is a Christian. “So, it shows that he has a very high level of religious tolerance in him to begin with. So, fears that he will do anything that he is doing based on religion would naturally be unfounded because if he was a religious bigot it should start from his home. But that evidence is not there. “Secondly, this is a man who has governed a state and a state that is multi-religious and he himself was a Muslim while he was governor of Lagos state. But, there was no evidence, there has never ever been any noise there. There has never been an issue that Asiwaju throughout his tenure as governor did anything for or against anybody.”