Sri Lanka’s caretaker Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has declared his country “bankrupt.” Meanwhile, the resignation of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who is in hiding at the moment, is anticipated on 13 July. Wickremesinghe has also agreed to step down, it has been reported, thus paving way for an all-party unity government to be constituted to run the embattled island nation. Rajapaksa had been facing months of sustained protests calling for him to step down from power, with the popular protest slogan ‘#GoHomeGota’ gaining massive ground. He repeatedly declined. Ultimately, public outrage culminated with the recent takeover and ransacking of the presidential palace, official and private residences, and offices. Extensive media footage of unending throngs of people swarming and overtaking these properties will remain etched in the public memory as a symbol of civic anger and outrage against the apathy of the Rajapaksa clan’s policies and governance. The political and fiscal bungling by the Rajapaksa administration was multiplied further by the plaguing debts with China, and beyond those by the COVID pandemic. The combination is behind the devastating ongoing economic situation facing the island nation. Colombo’s economy has been faltering since 2020. The raging and uncontrollable inflation is expected to hit a record 70 percent in the coming months of 2022, as food prices skyrocket and government coffers run dry. POLL Further, the energy crisis has led to continuing blackouts. In all, Sri Lanka is in the midst of a hounding humanitarian crisis with the government already having defaulted on $51 billion USD of foreign debt. It can no longer afford to import fuel, food, and medicines. Economic woes are showing no sign of relenting with multiple incoming warnings of a worsening fuel and food shortages situation. The Rajapaksa clan led by the three brothers, Basil, Gotabaya, and Mahinda, has been accused of corruption and financial mismanagement of the island nation’s affairs, which eventually caused the worst economic crisis since Lanka’s independence in 1948. Moreover, the Lankan public has blamed the erratic and unreflective policies of the Rajapaksa administration for its food shortage. The unperceptive and sudden ban by Gotabaya Rajapaksa on all chemical fertilizers across Sri Lanka in May 2021 directly resulted in momentous drops in agricultural yields. The ban was imposed virtually overnight with no prior warning or training, rendering the farming community furiously helpless. Even though the ban was rolled back following widespread protests, it caused widespread damage which became unmanageable. In the end it led to a 30 percent drop in annual paddy yields nationwide in 2021. Being a tropical country, Sri Lanka’s main produce remains rice grown in paddies and banana plantations. The fertilizer ban caused a food crisis never before experienced in independent Sri Lanka’s history. Food shortages in turn have sparked massive public protests. In fact, food inflation in Sri Lanka has reached a jaw-dropping 80 percent, resulting in a majority population only able to afford eating one meal a day.