Economic & political/military relations How tidy is Sino-Nigeria relations? SIAKA MOMOH, who has a burning passion for Nigeria- China relations, dug into the archives and continues his robust chronicling of the relations in question today. Siaka is a student of Mass Media and International Relations and Strategy Trade and investments Sino-Nigeria economic relations, as stated earlier, is the fulcrum of this piece and since economic relations do not operate in a vacuum, political relations and its affiliates, or border subjects, so to speak, like education, culture, youths and sports, have to come in. The upsurge in economic relations between Nigeria and China is part of the increased interest of China in Africa . It would be recalled that in November 2006, 46 heads of state of African countries, including Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, former president of Nigeria , gathered in Beijing as part of the ongoing Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), the largest meeting between the two sides since 1950. And coming on the heels of this forum, between January 30 and February 14 2007, the Chinese President, Hu Jintao, visited eight African nations with the aim of promoting trade, partnership and cooperation between African countries and China . The tour took Hu Jintao to Cameroon, Liberia, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, Sudan, South Africa , and Zambia . This was Hu Jintao’s third Africa nation’s tour of the Chinese president in four years. The significance of these events is the increasing economic relationship between China and Africa . It also signifies the changing economic relationships and dynamics around the globe. It also signifies the increasing relevance and the role that natural resources play and will continue to play in the coming years in the economic landscape around the globe. China’s romance with Africa is deliberate and strategic. The Chinese know what they want and they are going for it. For instance throughout the 1990s, China increased its aid to African governments and resumed its earlier rhetoric of “mutual respect” and “concern for diversity” – a discourse that Africa bought and revered. In return, Beijing received recognition of its sovereignty over Taiwan , indifference to its human-rights abuses, and support in international organizations. In 2000, a new China-Africa cooperation forum agreed on a joint economic and social programme, one that lent a developmental and commercial slant to the “five principles”. The five principles include the following: POLL • Mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity; • Mutual non-aggression; • Non-interference in each other’s mutual affairs; • Non-intervention in each other’s internal affairs; • Equality and mutual benefit; • Peaceful co-existence. They were first set forth by Premier Zhou Enlai in his talk to the Indian delegation at the start of the negotiations that took place in Beijing from December 1953 to April 1954 between representatives of the Chinese and Indian governments on relations between the two countries in Tibet . China has subsequently been well in advance of the G8 by cancelling $10 billion of the debt it is owed by African states; at the second Sino-Africa business conference in December 2003, China offered further debt relief to thirty-one African countries, as well as opening the prospect of zero-tariff trade… Rapid economic growth in China in the last decade, coupled with oil exploration and economic diversification in west-central Africa , has created new links. More than 60 per cent of African timber exports are now destined for East Asia; 25 per cent of China’s oil supplies are now sourced in the gulf of Guinea region. China’s ambitious strategy for Africa is driven mainly by China’s energy hungry economy. The current economic expansion in China requires natural resources that Africa has in abundance. So, for the Chinese, the aim of the expanding economic links is very clear. In turn, Africa, Nigeria robustly included, has benefited in the form of increases in natural resource prices such as oil, gold, bauxite, diamond, granite etc. This has contributed to significant economic expansion in Africa in the last six years. For Ogho Okiti, Business Day’s chief economist/chairman editorial board, trade between China and the African continent totalled US $55.5 billion in 2006, or annual growth of 30 per cent for the fifth consecutive year. In the period, China exported goods to African countries to the total value of US $ 26.7 billion, which was a year on year rise of 43 per cent, and imported US $28.8 billion worth of goods, or a 37 per cent year on year rise. China is now Africa’s third largest trading partner after the United States and France, overtaking the United Kingdom. In fact, according to World Bank Weekly Report for July 7, 2008, Sino-African trade has exploded from $2 billion in1999 to $55.5 billion in 2006 and $73 billion in 2007, growing faster than Chinese trade with the rest of the world, and making a significant contribution to China’s success. Nigeria comes in big as that part of Africa that the Chinese are interested in. For instance, China’s recent business activities in Nigeria increased to an all-time high figure of $2.83 (N370 billion) in 2005 trade. It is believed in diplomatic circles that the increasing tempo of China’s activities is meant to consolidate her hold on Nigeria as Africa’s most important trading partner south of the Sahara. Hu Jintao, Chinese president, visited Abuja in April 2006 in reciprocity to Nigeria’s Olusegun Obasanjo’s visit to Beijing in 2005. Several economic agreements were signed and a cooperative framework developed for the realization of greater relations. It would be recalled that by mid-2002, Nigeria and China signed four agreements in Beijing when the then vice-president, Atiku Abubakar, paid a six-day official visit to China . The agreements include that on consulate matters, cooperation against illicit trafficking and abuse of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and the diversion of precursor chemicals. Others were on exchange of notes on provision of goods between the two countries and agreement on tourism cooperation. On January 9, 2006, an inter-ministerial Federal government Delegation visited China to negotiate a $2.6-billion bilateral loan meant for rehabilitation, reconstruction and development of the ailing Nigeria Railways Corporation (NRC). This NRC’s job is currently steeped in controversy.