ABUJA – The College of Bishops and Imams in Nigeria have demanded urgent assent to the National Youth Service Corps Trust Fund Bill that is still pending before President Muhammadu Buhari for his assent. The clerics said in an urgent assent to the bill will lead to better opportunities for Nigerian youths. Addressing the press in Abuja, Wednesday, Bishop Abel Kings and Sheik Awal Musa said the NYSC Trust Fund is one of the few bills passed by the National Assembly that received the highest number of memoranda from the public in support of its passage. “This mass appeal towards the bill points to the acceptability of the trust fund. Again, there is no single federal government agency that has shaped the future of our youth like the NYSC with scarce resources. “The Trust fund comes in handy to consolidate on the founding mandate of the scheme driven by the foresight of successive director generals. “For all purposes and good intentions, this is a bill that confers on all Nigerians an opportunity to learn a skill once they pass through the scheme. “No wonder the bill has enjoyed wide acceptance until lately when the enemies of the nation struck with all manner of negative tales. “It has come to public knowledge that those who choose not to acknowledge the modest legacies this administration is leaving in the various sectors of Nigerian society, especially in the area of youth development have deemed it fit to attack and bring to disrepute, the impeccable image of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). POLL “Needless to say that you all are ex-corps members or intending corps members and you have seen how organized and efficient the scheme has evolved in the last few years. “Anybody trying to tarnish the image of the scheme is out for mischief and must not be taken seriously. They stated that the allegations purportedly linking Brigadier General Mohammed Fadah, the current Director General of NYSC with the Senate President and calling him a “stooge is very unfortunate. “This bare-faced assault against the new director general can only be characterized as normal and expected given the commitment of the new DG to sustain the numerous policies in place at NYSC. “To further Insinuate that the NYSC Trust Funds if assented to by Mr President, will end up in people’s pockets is the most ridiculous and least comment any true patriot can utter. To make such unfounded claims and allegations about an institution that has operated for more than four decades without any verified financial scandal and usually known for timely mobilisation and payment of corps members’ allowances and general welfare is very unfortunate. They noted that the scheme, in recent times had been remitting billions of naira to the Federal Government coffers due to the ingenuity and commitment of successive managements. “Trying to create a situation of mistrust in a bid to derail presidential assent to the NYSC Trust Fund bill will not work because the facts are there for all to see. “Sincere Nigerians who have the country at heart mobilized and supported the Trust Fund bill when it was in the National Assembly. “The masses indeed eventually won by the passage of the bill now awaiting assent by Mr President. “Any dissenting view at this point is a needless distraction worthy of attention. “The NYSC scheme has done marvellously well in adopting the noble idea of a Trust Fund to enable the scheme to respond adequately to the challenges of youth unemployment through skill acquisitions and empowerment. “This initiative is well received and encouraged by governments at all levels, Civil Society Organisations and all stakeholders considering the importance of the Trust Fund to national development. “Any attempt to sabotage this noble legacy will fail because it is a national legacy that will benefit the future generation of Nigerians to come.”