ABAKALIKI – The leadership tussle embattling Ebonyi state branch of People’s Democratic party (PDP) on Monday took another twist over who is the authentic chairman of the party. Piqued by the development, Barr. Silas Onu’s led faction of the party yesterday called on securiy agencies to to stop Mr. Tochukwu Okorie, leader of the other faction to stop parading himself as Chairman of the PDP in the State. The said call for arrest of Okorie came on the heels of his purported convocation of State Executive Council meeting scheduled to hold on Monday (4/7/22). Barr. Onu in a press statement made available to Journalists in Abakaliki, called on the party members to ignore any meeting at the instance of Mr Tochukwu Okorie as he has no Authority to do so. The statement read in part” My attention have been drawn to a publication via SMS, calling for SEC Meeting in Ebonyi State today. “The author of the said notice of meeting is an imposter called Tochukwu Okorie Okoroafor. “The general public and party faithfuls are by this present, called upon to ignore any meeting at the instance of Okoroafor Tochukwu as he has no authority to call for any meeting. “In addition to they criminal and questionable way he became a member/imposed as State Chairman, he was legitimately sacked by the FHC and his effort to appeal that judgment is now effectively dead by virtue of Section 285(14) of the Nigerian Constitution, 4th Alteration. “His entire appeal died on 21 June, 2022 when 60 days passed since he filed that appeal. The only thing remaining is for the Court of Appeal to give his case a befitting burial – that will happen on Thursday 7th July, 2022. -Advertisement- POLL “Mr. Okorie has become aware of this development and in a desperate bid to cover up some of his criminal activities, which includes the stealing of 5% remittance paid to the State by our National Secretariat and some other available fund in party account (N55, 000, 000) by attempting to use SEC and create a distraction via controversy. “This effort is sadly being propelled and supported by persons we once thought were leaders of our great party – they have been exposed as selfish, greedy and irresponsible persons. “While we await the befitting burial of the dead appeal filed by Tochukwu Okorie on Thursday 7th July, 2022, Ebonyians are called upon to stare clear of participating in illegality as Tochukwu has totally lost this battle. As long as this case over State Chairmanship is concerned, it is finished totally. “The SEC meeting is not one called by me or the State Secretary of our great party. Therefore, it is an attempt to mislead the public. “The Police and other Security agencies are by this notice called upon to arrest Tochukwu Okorie on site as we have a valid case of stealing pending against him.