In commemoration of a well-spent life and times of legendary Nigerian singer and songwriter, Olanrewaju Fasasi, popularly known as Sound Sultan, his family has released the last album the singer was working on before his demise. The listening party for the post-humous project titled ‘Reality CHQ’ was held simultaneously across three cities on Sunday, July 10. The event was held in New York, London, and Live! Lounge, Victoria Island, Lagos. It would be recalled the ‘Mathematics’ crooner, fondly called Naija Ninja died of throat cancer on Sunday, July 11, 2021, in the US and he was buried there according to Islamic rites. Referred as one of the pacesetters of modern hip-hop music in Nigeria, Sultan had once said in an exclusive interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT that Nigerian music has come of age. This is why even after his death, Naija Ninja roars from the grave ironically with Reality CHQ. Speaking at the event, Legendary Music Producer and Singer, Olumide Ogunade, better known as ID Cabasa noted the project is a testimony to the existence of Sultan and his music. He said, “Sound Sultan’s music is a sound for the soul. He used his music to talk about what is meant to be addressed in the country. His sounds and lyrics are still very much relevant has the issues he talked about are still pertinent. There is always something to take out of Lanre’s music.” The album, which is a creative collaboration with award-winning producer ID Cabasa was near completion before the untimely death of the singer. Touted as the last and ninth studio album of late Sultan, the album has six tracks. Now Muzik, managers of Sultan’s estate were also on hand to ensure the events went smoothly and without hitches. POLL Founder and CEO Now Muzik, Efe Omorogbe in a post about the album on Instagram said, “@soundsultan taught us that in a world where one can be anything, be kind. In an industry where one can be competitive and shrewd, be selfless. In a situation where one can be arrogant and judgemental, be respectful and compassionate. In a space where one can be wild and free, be exemplary. Forever in our hearts bro.” The well-attended event had in attendance family, friends, celebrities and his wife, Farida.