No fewer than 116 ex-agitators under the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) have been deployed for training in aircraft engineering, maintenance and other aviation services in line with the Train, Employ and Mentor (TEM) model introduced by its Interim Administrator, Col. Milland Dikio (retd.) Dikio’s Special Adviser on Media, Mr Nneotaobase Egbe, said in a statement on Thursday that the benefitting ex-agitators had already commenced a Basic Orientation Course (BOC) in Lagos to prepare their minds for the specialised training. The latest deployment increased the number of ex-agitators sent to various sectors to acquire professional skills for employment and entrepreneurship to 1250. Dikio, who spoke at the orientation camp, told the ex-agitators that the aviation industry remained critical and lucrative to the economy. He urged the beneficiaries, including members of impacted communities in the Niger Delta, to utilise the opportunity as a privilege to secure better future. The PAP boss said, “You are the first batch to revamp the aviation training. I want you to take it seriously because a lot has been put in to justify revamping this programme. I hope that by the time you finish the boot camp all of you will make it. However, it all depends on you. You must be determined. “Flying is about soaring above mediocrity, that should be a metaphor for your motivation. Flying is a precise profession, there is no room for half measures. As we say in the military, there is no packing space in the air. There is no space for second best. “In the aviation industry there is no room for mistakes. Failure is not an option, make that your life motto because a lot of people are depending on you to succeed”. POLL He said the training was designed to develop manpower in the Niger Delta and called on the beneficiaries to remain focused, dedicated and teachable. Dikio said ex-agitators should seize the opportunity to become solution providers to enable the region catch up with other parts of the country and the world. He acknowledged that the aviation industry boasts of many services and anyone who is focused and determined, including the PAP delegates, can carve a niche for himself. Dikio further said: “The whole essence of this programme is for manpower development in the Niger Delta. As delegates your responsibilities are to be obedient, stay focused and be dedicated. Learn to grow and have a teachable spirit. “You should be solution providers so that we can catch up with the other parts of Nigeria and the world at large. This is a privilege and not a right, it can be taken. “The era of entitlement in the Niger Delta is over. It is in your own best interest to cooperate with your instructors. Your instructors will teach you how to compete with the rest of the world. “There are many areas in this sector, every one doesn’t have to be a pilot. There are aircraft maintenance engineers, traffic controllers and other ancillary services. “Keep your eyes on the prize. Your future is at stake, your family name is at stake and in fact your children’s children. We love you and want you to be the best. We trust that can. Always remember that there is no second place best in this business”.