The attention of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) FCT Council has been drawn to several online messages against the person of Comrade Ikharo Attah, SSA to the Minister of the FCT on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement since the order for the closure of parks and gardens by 7 pm. This was contained in a statement signed by NUJ Chairman, Comrade Emmanuel Ogbeche and the Council Secretary Comrade Ochiaka Ugwu which a copy was made available to newsmen in Abuja. The statement read, “While as a Council we understand the angst against that policy of the government, we are however worried by the personal attacks even from some journalists against Attah. “For the avoidance of doubt, as an appointee of government, he was not responsible for the drafting and enactment of the controversial policy, nor is he responsible for the directive on parks and gardens closure. “It is in this regard that we urge our colleagues to express their displeasure with civility and within the realm of decency. The idea of personal attacks with some bordering on threats is unwelcomed and should cease. “We do not wish that some unscrupulous elements latch on to these suggestive messages and see it as an avenue to cause physical harm to Mr Attah or any of his loved ones. “Mr Attah has distinguished himself as a journalist who at all times upheld the code and ethics of the profession and remains no less a thoroughbred professional. “Without a doubt, his job schedule places a difficult task on him and he continues to execute his mandate without malice or the intention to wilfully hurt any citizen of the FCT. -Advertisement- POLL “It is instructive to state that the NUJ joined parks’ operators today, Tuesday, to meet officials of the FCTA on the way forward and will continue to engage the administration in finding a way out of the ongoing conversation regarding the operations of parks and gardens in Abuja. “At the meeting, our representative highlighted the disruption to the value chain which is huge that parks and gardens offer, therefore, the need to look at whatever existing policy there is so as to accommodate all segments of Abuja society. We reiterate our commitment to our community – Abuja – and will always work towards a better and inclusive territory”.