Since March 2002, Access Bank has fully transformed from the lesser-known institution it was then, ranking 65th among 89 banks operating in the country, into a world-class African financial institution. The transformation into a holding company and its numerous successes were not without the exemplary leadership of one man, Herbert Onyewumbu Wigwe. Bamidele Ogunwusi, writes: The inspiring story of two young men in their late thirties, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede and Herbert Wigwe, starting a bank twenty years ago has continued to be a case study of an exceptional Nigerian “I can do” spirit considering the unprecedented height the bank has achieved. March 2022 marked 20 years since these two young Nigerian bankers bought a small, nondescript bank and turned it into one of the biggest lenders in the country, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede was the Managing Director while Herbert Wigwe was the Deputy Managing Director. After 12 years in the saddle, Aig-Imoukhuede retired as the Managing Director and this paved the way for the Wigwe’s phenomenon that has taken the bank on a roller coaster to the summit of commercial banking in the country. Wigwe, who assumed duty as the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive in January 2014, has not only driven the bank into prominence but turned it into a conglomerate of sorts with subsidiaries across Africa, Europe and Asia. However, it was the Wigwe’s phenomenon that made possible the merger with Diamond Bank in 2018 that catapulted the bank to the number one slot in some parameters like assets and retail business with 646 branches. It also recorded the biggest channel touch points with 38 million cards; 3,000 ATMs and 34,000 POS terminals. In 2019, the bank issued the first Green Bond in Nigeria. In 2020, it expanded its African business into Kenya and Mozambique and became the first Nigerian bank to set up shop in South Africa. Access Bank under Wigwe has leveraged its strength and success in the corporate, personal and business banking platforms after the acquisition of Nigeria’s Intercontinental Bank in 2012 and Diamond Bank in 2019. POLL As part of its growth strategy, Access Bank focuses on mainstreaming sustainable business practices into its operations and strives to deliver sustainable economic growth that is profitable, environmentally responsible, and socially relevant. Through Access Bank, some of the biggest companies in Africa across construction, telecommunications, energy, oil, and gas sectors have recorded significant progress. There is no doubt that Herbert Wigwe is positioning Access Bank to become a financial powerhouse with the capacity to affect Africa positively. For his stellar leadership in the market expansion of one of sub-Saharan Africa’s largest bank despite the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group Managing Director/CEO of Access Bank Plc, Mr. Wigwe, was recently adjudged the ‘African Banker of the Year’ at the 2021 edition of the African Banker Awards. A winner of one of the most-prized categories at the awards ceremony for the second consecutive year, Wigwe was recognised for his aggressive expansion of the Access Bank brand in the continent. According to organisers of the awards, over the last 12 months, Access Bank has established a presence in South Africa, a major financial hub in the continent, following the bank’s acquisition of Grobank. Accepting the award, Wigwe said Access Bank was focused on promoting corporate discipline, adding that the bank wants to be in key markets on the continent, building a payment gateway and providing trade finance support. “We want to be seen as the best bank supporting the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement (AfCFTA). In terms of diaspora remittances, we are present in key areas in the continent,” he said. The African Banker Awards is among the most respected and recognised industry events celebrating African banking achievements. The organisers this year, put emphasis on recognising and rewarding institutions that contributed to the real economy which has suffered from the impact of Covid-19 as well as contributed to women empowerment on the continent. Omar Ben Yedder, Group Publisher of African Banker and Chair of the Awards Committee, while commenting on the award, said: “Herbert is one of the most respected bankers on the continent, without a shadow of a doubt. “The bank has gone from a lower ranked Nigerian bank when he joined the group as Deputy CEO to become one of Africa’s leading financial services groups. He has shown a relentless pursuit for growth, but has done so in a measured and calculated manner. What he and his team have done at Access Bank is nothing short of remarkable.” In line with Yedder’s comment, Wigwe, who is also the Chairman of Body of Banks’ Chief Executive Officers, has deployed his value-driven leadership to support the industry regulators in designing initiatives to support Nigerians as well in ensuring stability in the banking system. Wigwe is also positioning the bank to take advantage of the opportunities which the AfCFTA presents in the continent. The AfCFTA agreement is expected to create the largest free trade area in the world measured by the number of countries participating. African expansion strategy Wigwe said: “We know there is a significant gap in achieving our vision to be the world’s most respected African bank. As such, we are very focused on closing this gap through strategic and disciplined expansion of our African footprint, leveraging robust technology platforms and exceptional customer service delivery. “Our geographical diversity is a core element of our business model, providing opportunities for growth in different economies and enhancing resilience. We have acquired the exceptional capacity to successfully execute mergers and acquisitions with speed and efficiency at minimal risk while delivering value to shareholders. The series of mergers and acquisitions we have undertaken since 2005 all bear testimony to this and have all been value accretive.” Assessment In its assessment of Access Bank, Coronation Merchant Bank in its banking industry report noted that Access Bank under the watch of Wigwe clearly transformed itself with its acquisition of Diamond Bank. It also praised Wigwe’s dynamism in steering the financial institution. “As Access Bank continues to successfully execute its 5-year corporate strategy (2017-2022), we see the long-term investment case for the company strengthening. The company is on track to ‘Win with Africa’, exploiting significant digital and retail banking opportunities, supported by Nigeria and Africa’s demographics. “Elsewhere, we like management’s dynamic view on the future of banking, as it makes a foray into the payments space. According to management, a third of all transactions in Nigeria start from or end at Access Bank and ensuring retail transaction flows continue to grow is the bank’s core focus. Holdco To ensure that the next 20 years will be very exciting for Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe took the bank on the path of enduring business diversification with the transformation into a holding company, indicating a strategic diversification into growth areas. In March 2022, Access Bank completed the last mile of its evolution to a holding company. At least 19 months in the works, the holdco structure means the lender now has the latitude to branch out into other financial services outside its core banking operations at a time depressed earnings from commercial banking is forcing Nigerian banks to diversify or expand, a luxury not available under the former model. The road to a robust and enduring financial services ecosystem officially began on May 1, 2022, when Access Bank transformed into a holding company. The firm, which builds on Access Bank’s scale and ethical standards, will have portfolio companies with significant complementarities, allowing the ecosystem to walk with customers across their life cycle, while delivering value to stakeholders. While officially announcing the commencement of operations as a holding company, Wigwe, Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Access Corporation, said: “This natural evolution of our company will ensure that we continue to use digital tools and our partnership with Fintechs to support our customers’ lifestyles outside the banking system. We have set our sights on and delivered ambitious plans to transform the African financial services sector over the last 20 years. “Until now, we have concentrated on banking, with the goal of becoming the World’s Most Respected African Bank. Our banking subsidiary is now Nigeria’s largest bank by assets and Africa’s largest in terms of customer base. “It is now time for us to take the next transformative step, where we provide our customers with beyond banking services delivering new interconnected financial services across customers’ needs.” “The Corporation will comprise verticals cutting across banking, payments, consumer lending, insurance brokerage and asset management. “Access Bank Group will continue to operate in Nigeria and through its subsidiaries and business offices in Africa, Europe and Asia. These businesses, when combined, would position Access Corporation to provide banking services, including intra- and inter-Africa trade, consumer lending, payments services and insurance services to our customers, thereby improving wealth diversification and preservation”. He projected that in five years, Access Corporation would be a leading financial ecosystem player, with services spanning B2B and B2C marketplaces, B2B services, health, housing, digital, mobility content, mobility, core banking offerings and other financial services such as insurance and wealth management. “We recognise and embrace the change that is currently happening and, as we have previously demonstrated, we will lead. Access Corporation will be a driving force in the ongoing digital revolution to the benefit of our stakeholders. “This transition will allow us to offer more career development opportunities across portfolio companies for our employees, allowing us to attract and retain the best talent in an increasingly global marketplace. We will unlock more value for our customers by focusing on distinct business opportunities with high growth rates globally, such as payments and consumer lending,” he added.