Plans by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to embark on a twoday solidarity protest in support of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and other university based unions is already sending shock waves to the Federal Government, prompting it to caution the apex labour union against breaching law and order in the country. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who made the allegations on Wednesday, shortly after the week’s Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, also roped in the political angle, insisting that NLC being owners of Labour Party (LP) had no justification to mobilise other unions against the government of the day. According to the minister, the planned solidarity strike is unlawful considering that the NLC has no dispute with the Federal Government. Mohammed in his presentation to State House correspondents pointed out that taking such steps in support of an affiliate union would amount to an attempt to instigate anarchy in the country. The minister also observed that what the congress is planning to do is about interest, noting that it should insulate itself completely from politics. The NLC had announced that it would embark on a nationwide protest on July 26 and 27 to press home the need to resolve the over five-monthold strike especially by ASUU. Mohammed said, “While we’re still on labour, I think we should also start to interrogate what labour is doing. The NLC is not a political party. The NLC can go on strike or protest if the rights of NLC members are involved. What the NLC is planning in the next two days is about interest. “There’s no dispute whatsoever between NLC as a body with the Federal Government. POLL Well yes, there is a dispute between some members of NLC, ASUU whatever and the Federal Government which is being looked into. And NLC itself is a party to the committee that is looking into the solution. So calling out people on street protest you begin to wonder, what is the motive of NLC in this matter? “But you see here, we do not interrogate what NLC is doing. NLC by its own laws, cannot even give out pamphlets. And NLC is supposed to be completely insulated from politics. Now, if you declare dispute with us, yes you can go on strike. Even that one would depend on whether certain steps have been taken or not. But this particular NLC, you know, asking and mobilising people to come out on strike on July 26 and 27, is clearly on nothing”. Reminded that NLC was worried about the prolonged strike which is affecting their children as well, Mohammed said: “The Federal Government is as worried as NLC and everybody, but the law is the law. What we are saying is that rather than…what I expect NLC to do as umbrella body is to find solution, to join the Federal Government in finding solution. “They are part of the tripartite committee that have been negotiating with the Federal Government on this ASUU issue. So why are they now going out to take sides? I think you also interrogate it yourselves. I think it is popular to get NLC out and support but ask yourself, how does that help the problem? “How does that solve the problem? What you are going to create is more anarchy. And I think the NLC should think twice about their proposed strike in solidarity with ASUU. Is as if the Federal Government is doing nothing about ASUU. No. And they’ve been involved in this negotiation all along so why now?” NANS Mobilises Undergraduates For Solidarity Protest Meanwhile, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has begun mobilisation to join the proposed two-day protest by NLC in solidarity with the striking members of ASUU. NANS made this known in a statement issued by its president, Comrade Sunday Asefon, in Abuja on Wednesday. Throwing support for the proposed protest, NANS said the leadership of NLC deserved commendation for their steadfastness and commitment to join forces with well-meaning Nigerians to advocate the end of the protracted ASUU strike. “While NANS has organised various protests in the past with no substantial results, also our advocacy and consultation has not yielded any desirable result. We have activated political solution and we are very hopeful that an end is in the purview. “However, we are in total support of the planned protest by NLC as we believe this will step up the advocacy and assist in no mean measure to put adequate pressure on the Federal Government to do all that is required to stop the strike. “I, therefore, direct all NANS structures across the country to mobilise and join NLC protest. NANS will only be involved in the mobilisation of students to the protest sites and will act based on the direction provided by the NLC. NANS structures across the country shall submit to the leadership of NLC all through the protest.” Sirika Begs Aviation Workers To Shun Solidarity Protest For ASUU However, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, has made a passionate appeal to workers in the aviation sector not to contemplate joining the proposed protest being mobilised by the NLC in support of striking workers, under the auspices of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). His plea came following threats by workers in the sector to shut down airports in solidarity with ASUU. Reacting to the threat, Sirika shortly after the Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday, warned that the job of aviation management goes beyond flying but that its impact transcends all sectors of the economy. “I’m naturally concerned about this if the aviation union will shut down in support of ASUU. I would say they have no need to. I will say also that we should begin to look at civil aviation as a critical national security enterprise. It has all the implications. We should not contemplate or think about an aviation disaster. We should also think about the general activity on the economy of Nigeria without trivialising. “It’s okay. This is democracy, you can push for demands, but in pressing for demands you should be reasonable in doing so. Where the life that you’re trying to promote, would be seriously affected and hampered. Where lives can be lost because of your own activity. I think it should be reconsidered. “So, civil aviation workers, I think should not be part of this. Yes, I am concerned and yes we’ve spoken to them and I don’t think they will join because they know that there’s huge responsibility of lives on their heads. If you’re an air traffic controller, it involves national security. It involve the capability of preventing external aggression and so on so forth. I believe that they are very aware of the enormous responsibility upon them in civil aviation and they should continue to see it so and continue to be as law abiding as we want them to be”. Asked if there has been any formal plea with the workers directly, he responded saying, “Yes, is an ongoing thing. So in civil aviation, we speak to them almost on a daily basis. They are part of us. They are workers like every other person is. And we interact with them. In the ministry, we have their own representatives who speak to me time and again, probably on daily basis. Yes, we have spoken and I don’t think they will join and yes, we are concerned, but yes also reminding them of the enormous responsibility upon their necks and our own necks”. ASUU Could Call Off Strike Before Two Weeks— Presidency Again, the presidency has expressed optimism that the dispute between the Federal Government and ASUU could be resolved earlier than the two weeks that are being projected. The presidency also dismissed media reports quoting President Muhammadu Buhari as giving a two-week ultimatum to the Minister of Education to resolve the dispute. Malam Garba Shehu, the president’s media aide, said this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, while also appealing to the media not to spread misinformation over the ongoing strike by members of ASUU. Many media organisations on Wednesday published a syndicated story allegedly quoting Buhari as directing the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, to resolve within two weeks all industrial disputes in the nation’s tertiary institutions. According to Shehu, the presidency is optimistic that agreements can be reached in an even shorter period if all parties/stakeholders are not unrealistically obstinate. The presidential aide, however, said: “It is a pity that almost all media houses allowed themselves to be deceived by interested sources that are not the authorised spokesmen of government.” He said the outcome of the meeting held by the president on Tuesday with relevant ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to end the agitations by university unions ought to be beyond spin-doctoring and conjectures. “Neither during nor after the meeting was any ultimatum given to the Minister of Education. “During the meeting, the Minister of Education requested that the Minister of Labour hands off the negotiation to allow him lead and conclude what he had earlier on started with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “And he promised that he could get an agreement within the shortest possible time, possibly two to three weeks. “In carrying out this assignment, the minister will carry along all relevant ministries and agencies with statutory functions and duties relating to the issues involved,’’ he said. He, therefore, appealed to the affected parties to work together to end the strikes. “On the part of the administration, all doors remain open for dialogue and the resolution of the issues. “We appeal to the media not to spread misinformation. The orchestrated media narratives seeking to present an entirely different picture, attributed to sources, in the last 24 hours are not helpful at all,’’ he advised.