LAGOS – Coleman Cables and Wires recently commissioned the first-ever new facility Fibre-Optic Cable Factory in West Africa is capable of generating 2800 direct and indirect jobs The factory which is sited at Arepo are of Ogun state, has production capacity of 162,000 metric tons per annum. Mr. George Onafowokan, the Managing Director of Coleman, while speaking at the event, said the company took the bold step of its expansion to have a localized fibre optic manufacturer in Nigeria and particularly to provide jobs for thousands of people. “The condition of this factory is indeed a game changer being promoted by a wholly indigenous company that has been turned into the local production of fiber optic cables in Nigeria, from scrap copper and aluminium in Nigeria for commercial and residential uses. “Before Bank of Industries (BoI) intervention, the company’s installed capacity was about 12,000 metric tons per annum and we’ve provided 500 direct and indirect jobs. With this expansion, the production capacity will increase to 162,000 metric tons per annum, and it is capable of generating 2800 direct and indirect jobs “The condition of this factory is indeed a game changer being promoted by a wholly indigenous company that has been turned into the local production of fiber optic cables in Nigeria, from scrap copper and aluminium in Nigeria for commercial and residential uses.” With the commissioning of the fibre optic cable factory, it is expected that the prices of cables will remain extremely competitive due to the localization of production in the country. The new plant and the technical know-how are being done in collaboration with Corning Inc., the largest fiber-optic producer in the world who are the biggest and largest producers of fiber in the world. POLL Coleman will be exploring the opportunity to provide certain required accessories such as patch cords, splice closures, and pigtails, which we believe are necessary items to the value chain required for fiber cable users. In his Keynote Address, Ogun State Governor, Prince ‘Dapo Abiodun, commended the doggedness of Coleman in recording the feat of building the first Fibre-Optic Cable factory in West Africa and the fifth in Africa. I will tell you it is not easy to be an investor in this country, particularly at this time. While still it is very difficult to be a manufacturer in Nigeria at times, it appears this young man, George Onafowokan, who is the Managing Director of Coleman, has continued to set a target on the questions. I salute your courage. The governor also commended Asiwaju Solomon Onafowokan, Chairman, Coleman Wire and Cable, for his strong vision for Nigeria and coming generations. “Mr. Chairman is always everywhere by threatening multinationals. He has shown us that Nigeria can achieve along with the resources at our disposal,” he added.