Following the comment made by the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar over the All Progressives Congress (APC) Muslim-Muslim ticket in the 2023 general elections,  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has accused Atiku of  being a “pathological” liar. Tinubu, a presidential candidate of the ruling party revealed that former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar offered him a Vice-Presidential slot in 2007. Daily Independent had earlier reported that Atiku while featuring on Arise Television programme alleged that he parted ways with Tinubu over his insistence to be his running mate in the 2007 general elections. Atiku who was the Action Congress (AC), presidential candidate in 2007 noted that Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket was the bane of his “fundamental disagreement” with Tinubu. He said, “My fundamental disagreement and political departure with Asiwaju [Tinubu] since 2007 was due to the Muslim-Muslim ticket. Remember, I opted out of PDP because of zoning, and together with Asiwaju we formed ACN. “Tinubu wanted to be my running mate when I was given the ACN presidential ticket in 2007, but I disagreed. And because of that, he switched his support to the late Umar Yaradua. That was the parting point.” Reacting swiftly to the development, the former Governor of Lagos State in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Tunde Rahman insisted that Atiku offered him the vice presidential ticket in 2007. The statement read, “We are saddened to see such a man become unhinged from the truth. So obsessed is he with his quest for office, Atiku is willing to render any form of untruth if he thinks it might gain him a single vote. Atiku may want to be president. However, all he has shown is that he is pathological.” POLL “Whatever moral compass he had has been lost. During a 22 July television interview, Atiku assaulted historic truth by lying that he did not name Tinubu as his running mate in 2007 on the Action Congress ticket because Atiku did not want a Muslim as his running mate. “It was the actual founders of the AC who offered the party’s flag to Atiku because of the need to fight the authoritarian designs then President Obasanjo and the PDP had on Nigeria’s democracy. At that moment, Atiku had been unceremoniously pushed aside, if not out of the PDP by Obasanjo. We needed to rally all forces to confront the one-party state Obasanjo had in mind. Atiku was simply a beneficiary of this collective duty to fight the attack on multi-party democracy the PDP had launched. “I feel sorry for dear old Atiku. Love of his own ambition has eclipsed his relationship with the truth and an honest account of the past. We formed the AC without his knowledge. When President Obasanjo virtually exiled him from the PDP, we lent him our support by giving him the AC platform for the 2007 election. “Let me say openly that Atiku offered me the vice presidential ticket in 2007. Let me also say that my religion has not changed. When he offered the position to me, I was a Muslim and I believe he was aware of my religious faith at the time. “Atiku’s calculations and deceit had nothing to do with religion or his sensitivity to it. His conduct has everything to do with what we discovered about his paucity of character and love of intrigue.”