Chief Martin Onovo, an engineer and seasoned politician, was the 2015 presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) and currently, Head, Policy Positions, Movement for Fundamental Change (MFC). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recently concluded party primaries and the aftermath. Excerpt: With the completion of party primaries, how do you see the behaviour of politicians and party members and supporters so far? We see the behaviour of many as much worse than it was previously. Dishonesty is obviously being celebrated as many are willing to deny zoning, even when it is fully established and well documented in Nigerian politics. Federal Character is required by the Constitution of Nigeria. Quota system has been practised for decades. Power rotation was not only agreed, it was documented in the 1995 General Abacha draft Constitution. It is also documented in the PDP’s Constitution. Integrity is the foundation of all good leadership. So, with their lack of integrity, we cannot expect good leadership from them. We have also seen the obvious inconsistency in the claims of the candidate of the ruling party about his educational qualifications and other personal information. What is your take on the allegations of ‘dollar rain’ for delegates of the two major political parties, APC and PDP? The ‘dollar rain’ is the corrupt tradition of the two ruling parties. They are not major political parties; they are two sides of the same corrupt coin. They are responsible for Nigeria’s predicament. As is usual with them, they have presented us with two very old and recycled and failed politicians. We will reject both of them. We will say ‘no’ to APC; ‘no’ to PDP. Some have predicted that the presidential election will be a two-horse race between PDP’s Atiku and APC’s Tinubu? Do you see this coming to pass? No. Both are incapable of winning any free and fair election. It is obvious that the overwhelming majority of Nigerians have rejected them. The PDP is dying. The APC will scatter. The first force is coming, that is, the people’s movement. The Labour Party will probably lead the First Force. Nigeria is clearly at the tipping point now. The PDP and the APC are two sides of the same corrupt coin and their unpatriotic and corrupt devices are responsible for the current Nigerian predicament. So, the Nigerian people have decided to get rid of them. We expect that the people will win. Otherwise, prepare for even more serious crisis. Don’t you think that with the emergence of Peter Obi and the recovery of the LP by the Labour Movement for the working masses and support by notable politicians, that the reborn LP and its candidate may snatch power from the two ruling parties as the long awaited Third Force? -Advertisement- POLL The people are the sovereign. So, the people are the First Force. The overwhelming majority of Nigerians have rejected the dying PDP and the imploding APC. In a free and fair election, the people will win. However, with the history of electoral fraud in Nigeria, the 2019 charade called general election, and the current manipulations by INEC, it is naïve to expect that INEC can deliver a free and fair election in 2023. Therefore, we must be vigilant against INEC manipulations, starting from the election timetable till the announcement of all election results. Also, we must plan against vote-buying which a key strategy for the corrupt ruling parties. LP has a bright chance of leading the First Force to victory if it can collaborate with all other authentic democratic forces. The PDP has picked Gov Ifeanyi Okowa, a Southern running mate for Atiku. What is your take on that? That is absurd. Alhaji Atiku is an irregular candidate. He emerged against the power-rotation principle which is a national democratic norm that is clearly stated in his party’s constitution. He is a serial loser and has been losing every presidential bid since 1993. He is also very sectional, an Islamic fundamentalist. He is too old and has too many indictments for corruption. Even his principal, former President Obasanjo has publicly regretted choosing him as his Vice-President. In addition, his education and working experience are very weak. He embodies everything the Nigerian people do not want in a president presently. His choice of Gov. Okowa as his running mate signifies his inability to make right decisions. Gov. Okowa failed woefully as the governor of Delta State and has been publicly rejected by his own people. They both belong to the past and cannot fit into the new Nigeria we are praying for. Don’t you see Rabiu Kwankwaso the presidential candidate of NNPP going far and possibly winning the election? Alhaji Kwakwanso and the NNPP cannot go far in the 2023 elections. He represents a political minority that has no significant capacity to win the presidential election. It will be a miracle if he can secure 40 percent of the votes in Kano State, his base. He must join the First Force or face political failure. This is our opportunity to take power back from the old and corrupt recycled failures that are unwilling to retire. He is welcome to work with us. What do you think will likely be the main issues of the 2023 presidential campaign? Unfortunately for us, the main issues will be 3Rs, Rigging, Religion and Region. This is because the Buhari regime has divided our people with their unpatriotic Islamisation and Fulanisation impunity and are also desperate to impose a successor. Their desperation to impose a successor is to cover their unprecedented corruption and to continue with their Islamisation and Fulanisation agenda. The unprecedented corruption, their Islamisation and Fulanisation impunity with the associated insecurity represent the legacy of the Buhari regime that they are desperate to perpetuate. How do you see the likely alliance between LP and NNPP? Do you see the possible alliance defeating the ruling parties? An alliance between LP and NNPP can form the core of the First Force that we expect to take over the presidency in 2023. Many other political parties and political associations will then join the alliance to form the First Force, which is the People’s Movement that will defeat the two corrupt ruling parties resoundingly. There were allegations of vote buying during the just-concluded Ekiti governorship election. Do you foresee the trend marring the 2023 general elections? With the very cheap vote-buying by the ruling party at the recent Ekiti State governorship election, it is clear that the ruling party can very easily manipulate the 2023 general elections. For current Nigerian elections, the arrangement is very simple. Basically, corrupt politicians steal public funds and deploy it for vote-buying to take over power or to remain in power. Using the Ekiti governorship election as an example, INEC claimed that the winner got 187,057 votes. At N10,000 per vote, only about N1.87 billion is required to buy the governorship of Ekiti State. This amount is too small to many corrupt politicians that wish to seize the governorship of a state. In this way, what we have is a vicious circle of corrupt politicians that steal public funds and deploy it for vote-buying to get to office to steal more and deploy it again for vote buying to return to public office. Similarly, if you have N600 billion, you can buy 20 million votes at N30,000 each to become the President of Nigeria. We must break this vicious circle. Do you think the 2023 general elections will be free and fair? There may not be a proper election due to the insecurity and terrorism of foreign Fulani bandits directly sponsored by the ruling party. Additionally, we may just have another charade that will be arranged by INEC in collaboration with the ruling party. That is the clear direction of the current manipulations. Historically, western democracy in Nigeria was founded by our colonial masters on electoral fraud. The pre-Independence census and elections were manipulated by the colonial masters in favour of the Northern People’s Congress (NPC) as can be confirmed from the confessions of a high level colonial officer, Mr. Harold Smith. Also, according Oxford University, African Studies Centre, “In almost every single colony, the British attempted to manipulate the result to their advantage”. With the unprecedented corruption and the desperate Islamisation and Fulanisation agenda of the Buhari regime, it may be naïve to expect a proper election in 2023. The threats and attacks by the Fulani terrorists sponsored by the ruling party have increased recently with the church attacked in Owo, Ondo State, many communities attacked in Kajuru, Kaduna State and Churches attacked in Rubu, Kaduna State. These attacks are calculated to skew the elections and also to desperately further the land-grabbing Islamisation and Fulanisation agenda. In the interim, the Fulani have consolidated their control of the security establishment and the judiciary to prevent any national security response to their conquest agenda.