ISEGHE AJAYI Building wealth is not a child’s play in this present harsh economy owing to steady inflation which has continued to influence the value of Naira adversely especially when compared with foreign currencies. The situation is so apprehensive such that survival has become a big challenge regardless of the social status. Besides, the depreciating value of Naira has not helped the situation either, but has further worsened the purchasing power of the masses, making savings and investment almost impossible. Agreed, that achieving financial freedom in these dire hard times can be unfeasible due to hyper inflation, but with self-determination and financial discipline, it is doable. That is why it is important to have a saving goal and start planning for your financial future the moment you start working after school. This will certainly help you to commence thinking of how to multiply your income so as to create wealth at an early age. Remember there is an adage that says’ Make hay while the sun shines and Time waits for nobody”. POLL This is quite true for people with good financial focus, prudence and discipline. It is wise not to eat with your 10 fingers by not procrastinating your financial future especially if you have a means of livelihood. There is nothing stopping you from investing your money early to reach financial freedom despite the unfavorable state of the economy. Do you know that the best way to defeat inflation is to enhance your streams of income, and invest them wisely by not keeping them in the bank to lie fallow? If you really desire to experience financial freedom in a harsh economy like ours, you must try as much as possible not to give up on your financial life by setting attainable goals for a particular period. Cultivating the habit of saving and investing early can free you from every financial stress that is associated with retirement irrespective of when it occurs. The under listed steps will help you to see the need to create wealth early: Be Realistic While Making Up For The Lost Years There are benefits associated with early savings and investment, but there is no need to panic if you have not started because it is not too late. Also, panic-induced decisions are often done hurriedly and foolishly, hence the need to take caution. Regardless of when you start saving or investing, it is vital to be practical especially while making up for the lost years in which you failed to save any money. Create Multiple Income Streams Surviving on a single source of income in this harsh economy cannot give you that financial freedom you desire because of high cost of living occasioned by inflation. Having additional source of income is also a great way to enhance your income and savings. Besides, you do not have to work non-stop to make more money but instead, you can make money from that thing that you are passionate about, and it can be done anywhere and at anytime because that is what passive income entails. Track Your Spending It is vital you track your money so as to control your expenses for savings to be accommodated. For it to be more effective there is need to prune down unnecessary expenses regularly by creating a budget. Besides, it will help you pay close attention to where you are spending each month, and set restrictions for different categories. This is especially germane if money is tight and you cannot manage to save for retirement as well as knock out debt and continue to pay your other bills. Probabilities are that there are other areas where you can cut back. Saving for retirement is more of a mind-set than a routine because once you start making healthy financial selections on a regular basis, they become a way of life and you will not even ponder twice about them. Remember that you are investing in your future, and these sacrifices now will seem small but later it will be meaningful especially when reaping the reward. Spend Significantly Less Than You Earn The first habit is to spend less than you earn. And if you want to build wealth fast, you need to spend meaningfully less than what you earn. But, for those who are not frugal in their spending, it will be a difficult thing to do unless if they decide to change their mind-set. Do away with Credit Card Debt Credit card debt is one of the most unsafe forms of debt as it regularly carries very high interest rates. And the longer it takes you to pay off that debt, the more interest you will pay and the less you are able to save for retirement. Before you commence carelessly hurling money at your debt and expecting that it would go away, create a road map, so that you can pay off your debt in the most strategic way that is beneficial to you. If peradventure, you have debt from multiple credit cards, start with the one that has the highest interest rate, while still paying the minimums on your other cards. Then, stop using your cards altogether and pay for everything in cash until your debt is paid off. As a bonus, this will coerce you to live within your means, and as such, you will probably spend less than you would by charging all your purchases. As soon as your credit card debt is paid off, you can keep that extra money toward your retirement fund and boost your savings. Even if you do not put all your additional savings toward retirement, it will allow you to increase your wallet for saving not to be so challenging. Have A Saving Goal In saving as you can, you should try and set a financial goal so that it can be more meaningful as saving for the sake of saving is pretty futile. But, if you create financial goals such as saving for a house, car, or early retirement will grant you financial peace and security particularly if such set goals are attained. That is why it is vital when you have come up with significant goals, start saving as much money as you can for your current and for your future goals. Take Less Financial Risk It is true that you should take less risk as you get closer to retirement. This involves reducing your experience to stocks and increasing the proportion of your portfolio that is allocated to safer investments. But, be cautious not to go beyond it as this could put you at risk of limiting the expansion of your investments.