Following the choice of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s Muslim running mate, a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) group on Tuesday faulted the party’s move, saying Tinubu has slapped Nigerians in the face. Daily Independent had on Sunday reported that Tinubu announced the former Governor of Borno State Kashim Shettima as his vice presidential candidate in the 2023 presidential election. React to Tinubu’s choice in a statement titled, ‘Muslim-Muslim Ticket: Tinubu Has Slapped Nigerians In The Face, the PDP Group under the agies of Umbrella Front insisted that Tinubu and the ruling APC have set a dangerous trend and precedence ahead of the forthcoming election. The group said, “We will not mince words on this issue. This is a slap on the face of every Nigerian — both Muslims and Christians because it sets a dangerous trend and precedence that may significantly affect the unity and peace of the country. “This selection has the stench of inconsideration, irresponsibility, division and disunity. It has total disregard for the feelings of all Nigerians. “It was done in bad faith. Are there no other competent Christians in the APC? Nigerians need to ask: ‘What is so special about Kashim Shettima? What does he bring to the table that other competent Nigerians from other religions cannot bring?’ “Right now, it is clear that Tinubu is only interested in winning. He does not care about Nigeria and Nigerians. He never has. Even President Buhari, with all his faults, saw reason in 2014 and decided to go against a Muslim-Muslim ticket. This is why Tinubu was not his running mate then. “Because people like Bukola Saraki, who was then in the APC, served as the conscience of the party and advised against it. POLL “At this point, it is important for all lovers of Nigeria, regardless of their political party, to come out publicly and condemn the arrogance of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for choosing the route of a Muslim-Muslim ticket as his best course to victory.”