Comrade Gbenga Komolafe, a social activist, is the General Secretary, Federation of Informal Workers’ Organisations of Nigeria (FIWON) as well as Co-Convener, Coalition for Revolution (CORE). In this encounter with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he discusses current happenings in political parties as politicians jostle for positions in the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: What is your reading of happenings in the nation’s two major political parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), since after the primaries? The APC and PDP primaries were a final statement of the utter hopelessness of the Nigerian ruling elites. It sealed the plutocratic, absolutely corrupt leadership recruitment system that has become firmly entrenched. The highest bidders won in both parties as scores of millions of dollars exchanged hands from the leading politicians to the so called ‘party delegates’. It was nauseating. No serious issue or idea of how to overcome needless poverty pervading the land, the massive youth joblessness, the growing gross inequalities, the mounting insecurity, etc. Nothing about the ongoing strike by the university teachers and other workers. Nothing! It was all about dollars exchanging hands. Period. But, it was also a deja vu. We have seen it before at a lesser scale, we are seeing it again. So, most decent people just switched off. However, the move to revive the Labour Party (LP) revived some hope, but unfortunately, the familiar demons of monetised politics and ethno-religious jingoism is catching up with the LP too. And like I’ve said elsewhere, the LP can’t get far with such backward politics devoid of any serious mobilisation of working people and without playing up the real issues and putting better ideas on the table. So, since the primaries, it has been inertia with the two leading candidates currently in Dubai and France respectively to enjoy themselves and probably undergo medical treatment too since they are both septuagenarians. Like the country is cursed with being governed by ailing, old people. Why are the political parties finding it to pick their running mates, both at Presidential and Governorship levels? Because these are no real political parties actually, but just electoral machines devoid of any ideology, no semblance of governance philosophy or culture of public service like we have in other liberal democracies. So, the issue of having vice presidents nominated by the presidential candidates of the dominant parties is problematic. Ordinarily, more cohesive party structures would have easily resolved the question of running mates after the primaries. But, here, no. The presidential slots have been bought, the vice presidential slots can go to any other quantity since it’s not about competence or capacity, but the ethnicity and religion and deep pocket of the would-be vice presidential nominee. So, we are having new terminologies in our political lexicon, ‘place holders’ who are nominated not because of any serious consideration, but just to fulfill INEC requirements to have a name submitted as vice president pending the time the presidential candidates would finish their ‘rest’ abroad and come back to pick somebody else that catch their fancy. How do you see the choice of running mate by Omoyele Sowore from Kano where both APC, PDP and NNPP have formidable candidates and supporters? Maybe because Kano, an ancient commercial centre in the North, aggregates the political direction of the core Moslem North. But, he has picked someone with some pedigree of radical politics and human rights advocacy unlike the other parties who are not interested in such values. What is your take on the rising popularity of Peter Obi, who a lot of people now seem to see as holding the key for positive change in Nigeria? POLL Peter Obi could have had a chance if the LP as a political party was well structured as a genuine fighting platform of working people. Initially, the TUC’s well-advertised effort to revive the LP and mobilise working people under its banner raised some hopes. The NLC position was rather dubious as most of its leaders are staunch members of the ruling party. One of them is even contesting as a governor in Kebbi State under APC! How contradictory can it get? The expectation of most progressive partisans was that the effort, particularly by the TUC to revive the LP will be accompanied with serious political mobilisation and education of the working masses because this is the only way the LP will stand a chance. The LP can’t contest with the money bags on the basis of ethno-religious sentiments and get anywhere. The only way is to woo the mass of Nigerians who no longer bother to vote in elections because they are pissed off from having to choose between six and half a dozen. Since 2015, voter turnouts have been progressively declining and the only way to rebuild confidence was to go above the traditional sentiments and really offer alternative progressive programmes and ideas that address Nigerians’ concerns for overcoming perpetual underdevelopment engineered by the abandonment of the social sector; education, healthcare, electricity, etc, necessary for economic development and less inequality; the abandonment of industrial development anchored on the comparative advantages of crude oil and gas, diverse agricultural resources and abundant solid minerals available in the country as well as the abandonment of social security of the weak and vulnerable. Nigerians clamour for original ideas around these issues because without addressing these issues, it would be impossible to address the monster of growing insecurity and spiraling violence. We were hoping mass mobilization of working people on the basis of such a coherent social vision would commence. Then Peter Obi came from PDP. In the states too, gubernatorial, senatorial and other parliamentary slots came up for grabs by only those with deep pockets to ‘buy’ the party tickets were successful. Some of us warned against this development. The result? Everywhere, ex-‘PDPAPC’ won all the LP tickets because they are the only ones with the means to buy the tickets! Workers, genuine partisans of working people and other credible professionals who showed interest in the labour platform, were edged out. Now LP is looking increasingly like the third leg of a tripod of hopelessness. To make matters worse, the Peter Obi take over has also attracted a lot of ethno-religious mobilisation which is intolerant of serious political discourse, making the entire LP environment so toxic. Like I’ve opined elsewhere, Peter Obi’s bid is dead on arrival because it can’t beat the other two dominant parties in their forte, whipping ethno-religious sentiments. I say with all emphasis: it can’t get anywhere along that trajectory. Its only chance lies in a vigorous, conscious, deliberate, relentless programme of progressive mobilisation and political education of the suffering masses. That is the only means we can use to reignite the embers of politicisation of development, consciousness and progressive action. It is the only means of getting decent Nigerians, currently pissed off by the murky, hopeless political environment, to be part of the political process. Don’t you think that an alliance between AAC, LP and NNPP would lead to the dethronement of the current ruling class faster, to the advantage of the masses, rather than the three parties going it alone? Absolutely. Add the PRP to that kind of alliance of progressive forces and Nigeria will stand a chance. Nor is such an alliance so novel. Alliances are a major feature of liberal democracy. Such alliances in recent months have produced progressive governments and overturned the table against corrupt establishment parties in such countries as Chile and Columbia in South America. We also had such alliances in the First and Second Republics. But, as things stand now, that may be only in the realms of wishful thinking here. What is your take on the new wave of insecurity which seems to be moving down South from the North? You can’t have the level of grand corruption, inequalities, shambolic public services and demoralised working masses with mass youth unemployment that we have now and not have crime, violence and insecurity. To worsen the situation, our hopelessly backward foreign policy which failed to resist the destruction of Libya under Gaddafi has landed us in a situation whereby the entire West African sub-region is now awash with Libyan arms in the hands of jihadists…ISWAP has become the leading terror group we have to contend with now apart from Boko Haram, bandits and other unaffiliated criminal gangs. Do you think the Organised Labour is organised enough to swing the political pendulum in favour of its adopted Labour Party? I think we have dealt with that issue. ‘Organised labour’, especially most of the NLC leadership, has been incorporated into the ruling elite politics. The labour aristocrats seek relevance within that context. The popular clamour for the revival of the LP as a viable political alternative has been bungled already…except something urgent happens. But it’s getting increasingly hopeless. How do you see the travails of Former Deputy Speaker Ike Ekweremadu and his trial in London over alleged Organ Harvesting plot? It is a sad commentary on the values of our ruling elites. You may destroy public social services, including healthcare and education as long as you and your family members can get the best medical care in the world. That’s why Nigerian ruling elites spend over N664 billion annually on medical tourism, far more than the 2022 healthcare budget of N194. 6 billion for over 200 million people. Please these are official figures that can be fact checked. The other dimension is that there is a need for Nigerians to agitate for an overview of the law regulating organ transplantation in Nigeria. It is being alleged by experts that thousands of poor young people are lured into the horrible business of having their vital human organs harvested in Nigeria every year in exchange for pittance. The lawless situation here is what they took to the UK, not knowing that the system there will not tolerate such inhumanity. I was amused when the Senate said they were sending a delegation to the UK. To do what? To bribe the judges? And am sure they went on that trip at public expense. Such shamelessness and utter impunity! What is your take on the recent changing of the guard at the Supreme Court? I really don’t think anything has changed in the Supreme Court. The new CJN is already in the grips of some controversy around age and schools attended or something….