WARRI – Delta State Governor and Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Ifeanyi Okowa said Saturday’s Osun governorship election was critical to the party and Nigerians because it would signpost the beginning of the ‘Rescue Nigeria’ mission. Okowa stated this while addressing the party faithful at Osogbo on Wednesday ahead of the polls. Accompanied by Chairman, PDP Governors’ Forum, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Bayelsa Governor, Senator Douye Diri and Edo Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, Okowa appealed to the party leaders to sheath their swords and support the party’s candidate for the Saturday governorship election, Senator Ademola Adeleke. He stressed that the Osun election was important to the party as it would give hope to Nigerians that positive change was in the offing. “I want to thank our leaders who have spoken to us. I want to also thank all our followers for showing that they are truly good followers. “Osun election is very critical and important to the PDP. This election is very important to us because if we win in Osun, it will send a strong signal that we are ready to rescue the nation. “The foundation of what is to come is that we have to deliver Osun state to be able to inspire hope and change the narrative in the country for positive development. “So, we are pleading with you generally to look beyond your differences and look at what the PDP stands for by working together for the victory of the party in Saturday’s governorship election in the state. POLL “We cannot allow this nation to continue to suffer, we cannot allow a situation where our children will continue to be at home instead of being in school. “People are pained because of insecurity, devaluation of the naira and other challenges but if we are to turn around this nation for good, we must work together to form the government at the national level. “With PDP, there is great hope for the future. It is for us to collectively work together for the success of the party starting with the Osun election,” Okowa stated. Also speaking, Chairman, Osun State PDP Governorship Campaign Council, Senator Douye Diri, said “as a miracle governor we have come here to rub it off on the Osun people. “By God’s grace, we will break the ice because we have had very fruitful meetings with our leaders and all that we have agreed we will implement. “Let me assure you that with the matured, competent and capable leaders we have here, I foresee success for our party in the Osun Governorship election “Osun state election is not just for Osun people, it is a test case for the 2023 general elections and I am sure that our party will not be disappointed,” he said. Diri lampooned the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its choice of a Muslim-Muslim ticket and told the people that APC had taken the country backwards by over 100 years. “Today our currency is the worst in Africa and the world. So, let us come together to defeat them and that starts with our victory on Saturday,” he said. Earlier in his remarks, former Governor of the state, Chief Olagunsoye Oyinlola, while welcoming the party leaders said “today marks another positive turning point in the history of PDP. “The in-coming Vice President of our country wouldn’t have found time to be here if not that they are deeply interested in the unity and success of our party in Osun State. “We have listened to them and they have promised immediate action and we are satisfied with their discussions with us and as leaders, we will not disappoint your expectations. “PDP is the party that the entire people of Osun State want to lead them and we are hopeful of victory on Saturday,” he stated.