Following the recent crisis rocking the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the Governor Of Benue State, Samuel Ortom on Thursday disclosed that he had met with Governor Nysesom Wike of Rivers State over the differences in the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Governor Ortom who stated this when he appeared as a guest on Arise News TV’s Morning Show, also said he spoke with Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State and several others and all the aggrieved governors have decided to remain in the party. It could be recalled that Governor Wike is not pleased with the decision of the party presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar to pick Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as his running mate in the forthcoming election. Ortom, who had faulted Atiku’s decision for snubbing Wike said he and his aggrieved colleagues have agreed to remain in PDP. Speaking further on the programme, the governor, however, called on the former Vice President to reach out to Governor Wike for reconciliation while noting that Atiku has reached out to him to further persuade Wike and I agreed to sit down with him to iron out their differences. He noted that Wike is a big factor who remained in the party when he and Atiku left the party for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), adding that it is not too late to resolve the crisis in the PDP. He said, “One thing I want to assure Nigerians is that we are not going to defect to any political party,” Governor Ortom said, adding that he recently met with Governors Wike, Seyi Makinde and Okezie Ikpeazu in London, where they took the decision. “Wike, in particular, has been very instrumental to the growth of our party in the absence of any former President produced by our dear party,” the governor noted. POLL “You are aware that President Olusegun Obasanjo that was produced by this party, you are aware that President Goodluck Jonathan that was produced by this party also has issues. They decided not to get involved in what is happening at the party. “So, Wike was the anchor man. We discussed this matter in our meeting in London, and we all agreed that we are not leaving the party. But let there be due process and the need to ensure that everybody is carried along. “You’re aware that since the emergency of PDP in Nigeria, Wike has been there. Even some of us, because of the injustice that was meted out on us in 2015, left for APC, until APC started dancing in the wrong direction. “Then, we left back to PDP. Who was instrumental in my coming back? It was Wike. It is not late to put our house in order.”