***Five Hoodlums Arrested ABUJA – Hoodlums in Karsana, Gwarinpa district of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), on Tuesday attacked and robbed residents, after demolition of over 2,000 illegal batchers, shops. The hoodlums who were large in numbers attacked the residents and started snatching their bags and phones. However, five hoodlums were arrested and illegal drugs were also seized from them. Our correspondent gathered that a Police officer who tried to rescue a lady whose phone was snatched was almost moped, if not for the prompt response of FCTA Task Force on City Sanitation. The Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah, while speaking to newsmen immediately after the demolition exercise, condemned what he called post demolition attacks from hoodlums in Abuja. -Advertisement- POLL According to him, “It was what we have always describe as post demolition criminality here in shanties and criminal hideout in which criminals come out with daggers and other dangerous weapons and starts to rob passerby of their handsets and bags and other belongings, we had to go back to rescue a lady whose phone was snatched and we were able to recover it and handed it over to her.” “And two persons were arrested and have been handed over to Gwarinpa Police station.” “The Policeman saw the woman being attacked so he tried rescuing the woman and he was also robbed and we went back to get the two phones back”. He said the Tuesday cleanup was the continuation of what the Taskforce Team started on Monday and two machines were used for demolition, for four consequetive hours. Speaking on houses that were left untouched, he said, “The houses that were left untouched were the ancient Fulani that were leaving in Abuja before its establishment. We have been informed by the Department of Resettlement and they said, they have the right of being resettled”. Meanwhile, the Secretary of FCTA Command and Control Unit, Mr Peter Olumuji, revealed that three persons were earlier arrested, for possession of drugs. “Part of what we have come here to do is to remove shanties and bachers, because of criminal elements who operates from here. What they do is they operate in Gwarinpa environs and then come to hibernate here. What we have done is to dislodge them. We have some drugs recovered today and we also have some arrested. About three were arrested”, he said. One of the victim, Iyam, said he has been leaving in the area for over 30 years, said it was the Gbagyi that sold the land to them. He lamented that he is Nigerians as the Gbayis and appeal to the administration to consider other non indigenous people.