 It is a sad business for a journalist to tell the President of his country that the claims about the grand achievements his administration will make is nothing but hot air – and then be proved right. That would prove that nothing but unmitigated failure has taken place. Oh yes, several journalists lam­pooned President Goodluck Jonathan on his glaring inability to solve Nige­ria’s problems …and they were right. All Progressive Congress politicians jumped on that bandwagon and gave the man hell. In those days, every Ni­gerian knew who was “Mr. Clueless”. A lot of those now in government even took to the streets in protest, against the failures of the Jonathan administration; persistent petrol queues, petrol refineries which per­formed beneath their maximum levels of productivity, terrible Naira-dollar exchange rate, corruption, national insecurity, etc, etc. And they promised Nigerian heaven on earth. A citizen, Mohammadu Buhari, now President, kept reminding Nigerians that while he was Petroleum Minister during the 1975-’79 Murtala/Obasanjo adminis­tration, he built two refineries for the nation, a remarkable achievement. Yet, on Jan 2, 2022 I titled my column thus: “Buhari, 2022 Will Be Another Wasted Year”. I based that sordid con­clusion on a sound premise: “In the fi­nal week of 2021, the signs were there that President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year Day speech would not glad­den hearts in the “poverty capital of the world” – Nigeria. How? Oh, what do you think the main national news did to the psyche of Nigerians on Christmas Eve? While commenting on the discovery of oil in Bauchi state, Buhari said that: “Within the next 17 months, Nigerians should be able to judge what this administra­tion has done under my leadership when we came in terms of security, the economy, and the most difficult one which is fighting corruption”. Only one week has elapsed since he gave that unfortunate speech. Ah, please don’t kick yourself if you didn’t notice the part that I quoted. You must have been fixated on the petrol he poured on the South-North divide fire: “Now oil has almost become irrel­evant, but we thank God that oil is now discovered in Bauchi and Gombe and that will help to balance the politics of oil in the country.” Balance the politics of oil? In what way would that uplift Nigeria? Had Buhari congratulated the people of Bornu state, long traumatized by the Boko Haram terrorists, because the expected oil revenue would speed up the healing of their infrastructural wounds, the statement would not have become incendiary. His inclusion of Bauchi state in that statement gave the impression that he was enthused that oil had been found in his own sec­tion of the country; the North. And to remove any ambiguity, he added that unfortunate part about balancing the “politics of oil” in the country. POLL That speech exemplifies why the year 2021 was a huge waste. The diver­gent parts were at war with other parts. The most consequential law, the Petro­leum Act, enacted in 2021 worsened the disunity. While a victorious North rejoiced, the defeated South mourned as though something of it had died. Unfortunately, Buhari turned his mind away from the terrorists that he promised to rout as he was campaign­ing to be elected President. Over six and half years into his administra­tion, and with less than one and half years to go, the terrorists are still sit­ting pretty. Or did Buhari acknowledge that failure? No. Remember that he said: “Within the next 17 months, Nigeri­ans should be able to judge what this administration has done under my leadership when we came in terms of security, the economy, and the most difficult one which is fighting corrup­tion”. The long quote contains two serious issues; national unity and national se­curity. On unity, Buhari celebrated the Bauchi oil find as North’s oil find and I have always wondered why those that manage him never pointed out to him the implications such would have on national unity. Now, Nigeria is more divided than she was before Buhari emerged president in 2015. The second issue is TERRORISM. All the claims that have been advanced to show how much Buhari achieved on the terrorism front, including that the terrorists have been degraded, fell apart with the audacious terrorists’ at­tach on the Kuje Correctional Centre. That Kuje is right inside the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) says it all. In the final week of 2021, the signs were there that President Muham­madu Buhari’s New Year Day speech would not gladden hearts in the “pov­erty capital of the world” – Nigeria. Ah, please don’t kick yourself if you didn’t notice the part that I quoted. You must have been fixated on the petrol he poured on the South-North divide fire: “Now oil has almost become irrel­evant, but we thank God that oil is now discovered in Bauchi and Gombe and that will help to balance the politics of oil in the country.” Balance the politics of oil? In what way would that uplift Nigeria? Had Buhari congratulated the people of Bornu state, long traumatized by the Boko Haram terrorists, because the expected oil revenue would speed up the healing of their infrastructural wounds, the statement would not have become incendiary. His inclusion of Bauchi state in that statement gave the impression that he was enthused that oil had been found in his own sec­tion of the country; the North. And to remove any ambiguity, he added that unfortunate part about balancing the “politics of oil” in the country. What really is the politics of oil? Was he happy that the North will now contribute more appreciably to the Nigerian commonwealth? Most com­mentators have not read it so. . That speech exemplifies why the year 2021 was a huge waste. The di­vergent parts were at war with other parts. The most consequential law, the Petroleum Act, enacted in 2021 wors­ened the disunity. While a victorious North rejoiced, the defeated South mourned as though something of it had died. That presidential appearance in Bornu, was in itself, also wasted for Buhari came to the state to commis­sion projects executed by the Governor. It was a chance to spit in the face of the Boko Haram insurgents by showing the world that despite the terrorism that has blanketed the state for years, development strides were still on. Unfortunately, Buhari turned his mind away from the terrorists that he promised to rout as he was campaign­ing to be elected President. Over six and half years into his administration, and with less than one and half years to go, the terrorists are still sitting pretty”. Yes, I added in the already referenced article that Buhari did not acknowl­edge his administration’s failures on the security front: “Or did Buhari ac­knowledge that failure? No. Instead, in the only way that he and his APC political party will ever walk, he put on his administration the halo of success. Remember that he said: “Within the next 17 months, Nigerians should be able to judge what this administration has done under my leadership when we came in terms of security, the econ­omy, and the most difficult one which is fighting corruption”. By the time he said what you read in the paragraph immediately before this, his administration had a lifetime of 17 long months left in its tenure. Now, it has barely ten months left for it to make that much touted difference, on which he has asked Nigerians to judge what “this administration has done under (Buhari’s) leadership. Now, petrol queues have returned with a vengeance. The Naira-dollar exchange rate is at its worst level (for Nigeria) in all of the nation’s history. Also, the poor electricity supply problem has worsened. It was clear that Buhari’s boast about the magic he would perform in 17 months would end up like a puff of smoke. That was why I wrote then: “Then, the New Year arrived and the President who had said that Nigerians would judge his administration’s effec­tiveness after 17 months more, when (I assume) the results would be obvious, gave himself resounding marks. Worst of all, the President did not use the T word (terrorism) in his speech. He did not mention the killer herdsmen though he mentioned “insurgents and bandits”. If so, then why did he talk about insecurity nationwide? And to the millions of Nigerians whose faith in the ability of the nation­al Police Force to check the nefarious activities of killer herdsmen, who are everywhere in Southern forests and act with impunity, Buhari gave noth­ing to believe in. Buhari’s address left off the relevant and supremely conse­quential question in the country; the to-be-or-not-to-be of state and community police. Move up a step from there and you will arrive at National Restructur­ing or True Federalism proper”. So, have all the promises of check­ing terrorism any merit? The answer came when terrorists attacked Kuje prisons. If any newspaper could be said to be not just Northern but pro-Bu­hari, it is Leadership newspaper. Yet, it published the following, yesterday: “A private investigator has revealed that military personnel, police and other security operatives on guard duty during the attack on Kuje prison did not lift a finger to defend the facility, apart from the Civil Defence officer who was killed for trying to fight the invaders. The terrorists did not aim any attack against the military person­nel or their armoured vehicle in the prison premises. ‘’The attackers entered the facil­ity through the bush. Interestingly, that was the same spot the military armoured tanker was stationed, but guess what: they met no resistance, and shockingly they did not tamper (I mean destroy) with any part of the armoured tanker. These same guys (terrorists) now went ahead to burn down several vehicles parked just 10 metres away from the military tanker. Ordinarily, since the area manned by the army officers, who were deployed 12 hours before the attack, was their first port of call, before the civil defence officers, some soldiers and terrorists should have been gunned down. The bullet shells picked up from the grounds of Kuje prison belonged to the terrorists. The military disappeared during the attack and only returned after the operation was ended. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that Senate president Ahmad Lawan had blamed insider complicity for the attack and called for thorough inves­tigations when he visited the facility. The minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola Aregbesola “expressed disappointment at the level of defence put up by the platoon of the Nigerian Army with sophisticated weapons, elite men of the Nigeria Police Force, officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence and armed officers of the Nigerian Correctional Service on ground during the time of the attack. He said, “Kuje is the most fortified in the country if fortification for security is the determinant of whether it is (a) medium or maximum (security pris­on). We have a platoon of security offi­cers deployed here. We have high grade military and police and other securi­ty forces deployed for protection but strangely something happened most of which I cannot say on camera.”