The prostate gland sits below the urinary bladder and in front of the rectum and forms a ring around the urethra, which is the tube that carries urine out of the body. The prostate gland makes fluid that is part of semen. This seminal fluid helps to nourish and transport sperm during ejaculation. Prostate cancer happens when normal cells in the prostate gland change into abnormal or cancerous cells and grow out of control. Prostate cancer occurs most often in men older than 50. Although prostate cancer is very common in men, the fact is that most men do not die from it. This is because prostate cancer usually grows very slowly. Prostate cancer worldwide is the second most frequent cause of cancer deaths. For Nigerian men, prostate cancer is both the most common and most deadly cancer, mainly because of the late-stage diagnosis with associated poor prognosis. The risks of Prostate Cancer — The following are associated with an increased risk of advanced prostate cancer: Height, high body mass index, low physical activity, smoking, low tomato sauce consumption, high calcium intake, and high linoleic acid intake, African American race, and positive family history. Also, poor eating habits and diets that heavily rely on fats and animal proteins can cause DNA damage and lead to cancer. Symptoms of Prostate cancer — Prostate cancer often causes no symptoms at first. But if symptoms do occur, they can include: ● Needing to urinate more often than usual ● Trouble starting urination or stopping urination ● Pain or burning sensation when urinating or ejaculating POLL ● A urine stream that is slower than usual ● Trouble having an erection ● Blood in the urine or semen These symptoms can also be caused by conditions that are not prostate cancer. But if you have these symptoms, you should let your healthcare provider know immediately. Test for prostate cancer The PSA test is the most common test for prostate cancer and a digital rectal exam is used to check for prostate cancer. In a rectal exam, your provider will insert a finger into your anus and up into your rectum. He or she presses on the rectum wall to feel for abnormal areas on the prostate. If your healthcare provider suspects you have prostate cancer, he or she will follow up with one or more tests. These can include: ●Biopsy – A specialist will take a small sample of tissue from the prostate and then send the tissue to be examined under a microscope to see if it has cancer. ●Ultrasound, MRI scan, or other imaging tests – These tests create images of the inside of the body and can show abnormal growths. Prostate cancer staging — Cancer staging is a way in which healthcare providers find out how far cancer has spread.  The most common area of metastasis is the bone which may cause easy fractures and falls. Prostate cancer treatment — Men with prostate cancer often have a choice of treatment. The main treatments for prostate cancer are: ●Active surveillance – Men who choose this option do not have treatment right away. But they do have routine tests to check whether cancer starts to grow more quickly. If so, they can start active treatment then. ●Surgery – Prostate cancer can sometimes be treated with surgery to remove the prostate gland (radical prostatectomy). The two prominent quality-of-life issues associated with living without a prostate are the loss of urinary control and the loss of erectile function. Meanwhile, it is wise to avoid surgical intervention in elderly or advanced stage cancer as the surgical site may not heal and then cause continuous blood loss. ●Radiation therapy – Radiation kills cancer cells. Radiation can be given from a machine that moves around your body. Or a specialist might plant or place a source of radiation directly into the prostate gland. ●Hormone therapy – Male hormones in the body make prostate cancer grow. Hormone therapy reduces the levels of these hormones, which can shrink cancer. For hormone therapy, men might take medicines. Or they might have surgery to remove the testicles. (Male hormones, especially testosterone, are made in the testicles.) This treatment is usually only for men with advanced cancer. But some men with early-stage cancer get it along with radiation or surgery. ●Chemotherapy – Chemotherapy is the term used to describe a group of medicines that kill cancer cells. Men with advanced prostate cancer might get chemotherapy if hormone therapy stops working. In some cases, chemotherapy and hormone therapy are given at the same time. Some men, especially older men with other serious medical conditions, might choose not to do any of the above. Instead, they might choose “watchful waiting.” Watchful waiting is not the same as active surveillance. It does not require regular testing but involves treating symptoms when they happen. Treatment Choices and Options — You and your specialist will have to work together to choose the right treatment for you. The right treatment will depend on: ●The stage of your cancer ●Your age ●Whether you have other health problems ●How you feel about the treatment options Always let your healthcare provider know how you feel about a treatment. Any time you are offered a treatment, ask: ●What are the benefits of this treatment? Is it likely to help me live longer? Will it reduce or prevent symptoms? ●Are there other options besides this treatment? ●What are the downsides to this treatment? ●What happens if I do not have this treatment? Post-treatment follow-up. — After treatment, some men keep getting checked to see if cancer comes back or starts growing more quickly. Other men choose not to be checked. Follow-up tests can include PSA tests, exams, biopsies, or imaging tests. What happens if cancer comes back or spreads? — If cancer comes back, you might have more radiation therapy, surgery, or hormone therapy. You might also have chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is the term doctors use to describe a group of medicines that kill cancer cells. Can prostate cancer be prevented? — Men who are at high risk of getting prostate cancer can sometimes take medicine to help prevent the disease. If you have a family history of prostate cancer, talk to your healthcare provider. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Texas, United States. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com