Workers in Ondo State have been called upon to join the government in thinking outside of the box on how to create job opportunities and improve on the internally generated revenue (IGR). The Acting Head of Service(HoS), Kayode Ogundele made the call on Thursday at the inauguration ceremony of the new state executive of Trade Union Congress(TUC), Ondo State council at Olufunke Ajasin Auditorium, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital. He enjoined the workers to embrace negotiation, conjunction and integration rather than confrontation. Ogundele noted that it’s important for workers to think about areas which the government could explore in order to create more jobs and generate more revenue. The state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Princess Bunmi Osadahun assured the workers that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu would continue to take their welfare seriously, saying that the current economic quagmire was responsible for the hitch being experienced in payment of workers’ salaries. In his address, the President of  TUC, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, represented by Dan Ehiagwmei, urged the new executive to ensure the welfare of all members remains sacrosanct. The outgoing chairman of the union, Mrs Helen Odofin urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu-led administration to put in more efforts in ensuring that arrears of salaries are paid to workers without further delay to mitigate the current poverty rate of workers. The new Chairman of the Union, Comrade Clement Fatuase, who appreciated all members of the union promised to deliver on his promises. POLL He said the union under his leadership would continue the struggle to make the society egalitarian by not leaving governance in the hand of incompetent leaders. Other members of the new executive of the union are Nneke lkechukwu, Vice Chairman, Tajudeen Balogun, Vice Chairman, Olufemi Aiyesoro, Vice Chairman, Gideon Bakare, Secretary, Omidele Oluwatope, Assitant Sec,  Babakobi Olanrewaju, Treasurer, Adewale Bolatinwa, Financial Secretary, Vincent Oluwaniyi Olagoke, Auditor, Nwibani Ale Jnr, PRO, Chris Margaret, Secretary Woman, and Helen Odofin, Ex-Officio.