The scheduled arraignment of Group Captain Peter Bilal (rtd), at a Magistrate Court sitting in Wuse Zone 2, Abuja, over an alleged threat to the life of one Dr Israel Emmanuel, was on Thursday stalled. The arraignment of Group Captain Bilal (rtd), could not hold due to the absence of Magistrate Oluwakemi Ariwoola.At Thursday’s sitting, the plaintiff, Dr Israel Emmanuel, and the defendant, Mr Bilal, were in court as well as their respective lawyers. However, the court registrar announced that Magistrate Ariwoola was indisposed, hence, the matter would not proceed. “Your lordship is indisposed and she can’t make it to court today. “The matter is listed for motion/arraignment but the case will be adjourned,” he said.Consequently, the matter has been fixed for July 26 for the hearing of the motion and for Bilal’s arraignment. Bilal is facing a direct criminal complaint filed against him by Emmanuel, a medical doctor, through his counsel, Dr. Oluwaseyi Leigh. In the direct criminal complaint marked: CR/16/2022, Emmanuel is praying for the court’s intervention to save his life o er the alleged threat by the retired military officer. Emmanuel, 52, told the court that Bilal has been harassing and threatening to kill him at his residence. -Advertisement- POLL “The complainant is a medical doctor resident at Block D9, Flat 71, CBN I & J Estate, 9 Zaria Street, Off Ladoke Akintola Street, Garki 2, Abuja, within the jurisdiction of the court,” he said.He averred that Bilal, who also resides in the same estate where he lives, had continued to intimidate and harass him over allegations that he committed criminal trespass against him (Bilal). “The defendant is a neighbour to the complainant and a retired Nigerian Air Force (NAF) personnel who resides at Flat 72, which is opposite the complainant’s own apartment (Flat 71) on the last Floor of Block D9, CBN I & J Estate, 9 Zaria Street, Off Ladoke Akintola Street, Garki 2, Abuja, within the jurisdiction of the Court,” he said. According to him, he has suffered psychological torture, physical abuse, hatred and ridicule from neighbours on account of the unrelenting and unremitting hostile attitude of the defendant (Bilal). He said that Bilal, at one time, reported him at Garki Police Station on allegations that he tampered with his (Bilal’s) Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC)’s prepaid meter.Emmanuel, who described the allegation as untrue, said Bilal had earlier made the same complaint to the other neighbours and occupants of the estate and that the estate technical personnel was called to investigate his claims and found this untrue. “Yet, the defendant (Bilal) has refused to apologise to the complainant and to desist from further maligning his character,” he said. According to him, after departing the police station and on getting to the scene of the crime at the estate at about 3:32p.m in the afternoon that day, the defendant brought Air Force Police personnel to the block. “And as the complainant and the Investigating Police Officers were downstairs in the building, the defendant pointed the complainant out to the Airforce men who marched him to his apartment on the last floor, at gunpoint, entered the complainant’s apartment and started taking pictures and making video recordings which they took away with them. “The complainant states that while the Airforce men were in the complainant’s apartment, the defendant started raining vulgar abuse on him, casting derogatory aspersions on his person.“Boasting that as he (the defendant) was an Airforce personnel even though retired, his links with the Airforce still subsists and that there is nothing the complainant or anyone could do to him to bring him to justice,” he averred. The medical doctor recalled that, on the advice of his lawyer, a petition letter was written to the deputy Inspector-general of police, Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) on the threat to his life but Bilal refused to honour the police invitation. He said another letter was written to the Inspector-General of Police by his lawyer and three separate formal invitations despatched to Bilal but to no avail. Emmanuel, who said the two letters were exhibited in his application before the court, said Bilal kept fuelling the matter, boasting that since he was Airforce personnel, there was nothing the police could do to him “and at best, he will press everything down through esprit de corps.” Emmanuel alleged that Bilal vowed that he would stop at nothing to force him to leave the estate. “And that he, the defendant, will not rest until he permanently gets rid of the complainant from the surface of the earth, as the complainant is a national security risk,” he said.