***Urges INEC, Police To Rejig Formation In Osun State To Avert Crisis ABUJA – Ahead of Osun state governorship election scheduled for July 16, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday exposed All Progressives Congress (APC) plot and scheme to bribe the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and police. The party, which urged the INEC and police to rejig their formation in Osun state to avert crisis, alerted of an orchestrated plot by the APC to derail democracy by compromising the integrity and sabotaging the will and desire of the people for a free, fair, transparent and credible electoral process in the Saturday, July 16, 2022 governorship election in Osun State. “Specifically, the APC has accentuated its rigging programme by deploying billions of naira to compromise some security and electoral officers to intimidate voters, manipulate electoral process and inordinately favour the sinking APC Candidate, Governor Gboyega Oyetola, against the Will of the people,” the party said. The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said that it has been made aware of how huge sums of money have been funneled to certain compromised security and INEC officials to execute this ignoble scheme. “The said INEC and security officials are reported to have been bought over to among other things, criminally assist and provide cover for APC agents to prosecute a well-oiled vote buying and violence-triggering scheme. “Our Party has information on how two prominent APC Governors from the South West, a former APC National Chairman from the South South, certain federal Minister and a particular member of the House of Assembly from Lagos State are coordinating the release of billions of naira to bribe electoral and security officials as well as fund heavily armed thugs imported from Lagos, Ondo, Ogun and other South West States to unleash violence and help the APC to rig the election,” the party said. The party, which accused some security personnel to have been bribed with huge some of money to compromise the electoral process, has further reported of how the APC released the sum of N10 million per Local Government Area for INEC officials in all the 30 Local Government Areas in Osun Steta, N7million to thugs masquerading as Amotekun officials and a huge sum of money for propaganda to a certain compromised media outfit. POLL The PDP said it has been made aware that some patriotic INEC and Police officials vehemently rejected the poisonous offer by the APC. The Party, which salutes the courage and patriotism of such officers who resisted the APC for the love of our country, called on the Inspector General of Police and the Chairman of INEC, Prof Mahmood Yakubu to take immediate decisive steps to check the activities of police and INEC officials deployed to Osun State so as to avert a breakdown of Law and Order, especially given the manifest determination of the people of Osun State to resist the APC on its evil scheme. The PDP demanded that the Police and INEC immediately rejig their formations in Osun State as a step to assuage, reassure the electorate and prevent an impending crisis in the State. The PDP urged the people of Osun State to remain undeterred and focused in their determination to free their state from the misrule of the APC,