 In what can be described as an intervention from Indigenous Nationalities beyond the shores of Nigeria, a Global Self-Determi­nation Group, United Indigenous People of Africa (UNIPA), has carpeted Federal Government over newly re-introduced Water Resources Bill seeking to place control of all resources accrued through water on the surface or in the ground under the control of the Central Government, de­scribing it as a mockery of the country’s already Quasi-Federal Principles. UNIPA says the bill is an at­tack on Universal Federalism and an exhibition of wicked­ness on the part of the federal government in an attempt to further weaken the states and local government areas, which are already in bankruptcy due to usurpation of their functions by the central government. The self-determination body, UNIPA, has chapters in 28 African Countries and the United King­dom with its headquarters in the United States of America (USA). In an electronic statement sent to Saturday INDEPEN­DENT by a Co-Convener of the Group, Ms Jean May from New York, UNIPA described the moves by the central government of Nigeria to take over the control of all water banks, including its streams and all resources there­in as an attempt to completely take over assets of the already oppressed indigenous people in the country. According to the statement, “We have studied the Water Re­sources Bill and we found no sense in it. Our country repre­sentative in Nigeria reported that this is a facade and a com­plete hijack of the assets of in­digenous people, especially, in the south and middle-belt parts of the country. “For the sake of ordinary peo­ple who may not understand the danger ahead, the implications of the Water Resources Bill is that Osun-Osogbo river, Erin-Ije­sha water fall, Asejire water and others which are tourist sites that generate millions of naira monthly to Osun State govern­ment will now be administered by the Federal government. Specifically, it means that the administration of Osun-Osogbo festival will now be determined by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in Abuja. “The implication of the Water Resources Bill is that the admin­istration and control of Ipole/ Iloro water fall, Ikogosi warms spring, Ado-Ekiti water works, Ero River, Ogidigbi stream, Iye­mero water all in Ekiti state now belongs to the central govern­ment of Nigeria. POLL “The central government of Nigeria already hijacked the re­sources of the States and LGAs by pocketing 53% of the entire revenue accrued to the Feder­ation Account. Now, the same government is extending its penchant for asset grabbing by attempting to hijack, for instance, Oguta Lake from the people of Oguta in Imo State, Awhum wa­terfall and cave from the people of Amaugwe village of Awhum town in Enugu State, Enemabia warm spring from the people of Benue State, Agbokim waterfalls from the government of Cross River state, among others.” UNIPA argued further that by placing the management and control of all river banks under the control of the Nigerian gov­ernment, the state governments of Lagos, Ondo, Ogun, Delta, Bayelsa, Akwa-Ibom, Rivers and Cross-Rivers can no longer collect revenue from anyone or corpo­rate entities doing businesses at the bank of Atlantic Coastal Lines neither can the Lagos State waterways agency operate its boat services at the bank of La­gos lagoon without the express approval of the federal ministry of water resources in Abuja. “For the fact that the Water Re­sources Bill places both surface and underground water Resourc­es under the administration of the Central Government, the Fed­eral Ministry of Water Resources now control the boreholes in the homes of ordinary people who have no access to pipe-borne water. “Water is very much in the south and middle-belt parts of Ni­geria unlike in the north western and eastern Nigeria. Knowing the antecedent of the Nigerian government, we view this bill with suspicion and concluded that it is part of the agenda by some oligarchies in the country to extend their hegemony and control over the south and mid­dle-belt people of Nigeria. “Nigeria claims to be a Feder­ation but it is simply a unitary state in practice with 75 percent of the Federation resources and powers concentrated in the hands of the central government, including sharing functions like conduct of marriage, manage­ment of primary health center and primary education, etc with states and local councils. “The new bill, if it succeeds, will further make a mockery of the country’s federal structure, hijack more revenues from the smallest federating units and make the indigenous people poorer and wallow in more squa­lor than they are at the moment with poverty at a world topping 100 million people.”