Financial inclusiveness has taken the frontier of the Federal Government’s policies with the aim of bringing into the financial net, the unserved. In this report CHRIS EBONG writes on various initiatives and work-in-progress put together by agencies of government to achieve the target by 2030. Aftermath of the failed United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), initiative of 2012 which mandated various nations of the world to key in and work toward its realisation by the 2020, a fresh target has been set, this time to be achieved within a time frame spanning 2030. This had led to a fresh agreement in 2015 where 195 nations agreed with the United Nation that they can change the world for the better. This would be accomplished by bringing together their respective governments, businesses, media, institutions of higher education, and local NGOs to improve the lives of the people in their country by the year 2030. The financial inclusion policy of the Federal Government which commenced in 2012 is geared towards ensuring that no Nigerian is short changed in its financial intermediations policies and economic development plans. By this commitment, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM; Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); National Pension Commission (PenCom); Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and many other federal government agencies have own their regulatory agendas keyed into the initiatives with work plans already in the offing. For NAICOM, insurance industry can be part of the development agenda through market development and insurance penetration believing that deepening insurance education, awareness and uptakes and encouraging insurance inclusion among the teaming uninsured. Report has it that less than one percent of Nigerian adults has one form of insurance or the other. POLL In Nigeria, employment as a share of population aged 15 years and above climbed by 0.59per cent from 48.3 per cent in 2020 to 48.5 per cent in 2021. Statistics also showed that Nigerians of between 15 to 64 years old forms about 53.9per cent of the over 211million population. This implies that about 120million Nigerians are in the adult working population strata. Insurance operators as the driving mechanism for the insurance inclusiveness have been encouraged by the government to develop various microinsurance products for low income bracket of the society to enable them galvanise inclusion through massive insurance policy uptakes. Pension industry regulator, the commissioner for Insurance assured on financial inclusion. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), on its part reiterated its commitments to ensure every segment of the society is covered in the ongoing financial inclusion initiative of the Federal Government. The SEC assured that more Nigerians are captured in the digitalisation of the economy through the financial inclusion policy. Director General of the SEC, Lamido Yuguda assured that with the help of the fast growing Fintech penetration in the economy and financial systems, more Nigerians will be captured and be more protected to effectively navigate the nation’s financial systems, through the enabling channels, including the capital market, insurance and savings. Represented at the conference by SA’ Adatu A. Faruk, Head Financial Inclusion Division, Market Development Department SEC, the SEC DG said that the commission has created new standards and rules for registration and operations of FINTECH firms in the market to ensure compliance with global standard and adequate protection of investments. The SEC Director General reassured that the licensed Fintech companies will further speedy financial inclusion policy of the federal government, as well as ensuring adequate protection for their financial/ investment transactions. Prof. Umar Dambatta, the Executive Vice Chairman, EVC, of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), on his part, reiterated that the best approach towards benefitting from globalised digital economy is to be financially conclusive. Dambatta, who was represented by Mrs Freda Ruth Bruce-Bennet, Deputy Director, Digital Economic Department, NCC stated that the NCC in its pursuit to ensure that more Nigerians are included financially, is committed to training and retraining of youths IT experts, Hackathons, and establishing Hubs across the country to ensure steady and speedy expansion of financial inclusion policy to benefit every strata of the society. The EVC, said that without effective skills committed to driving the process, digitalisation of the through the financial services ecosystem would have been retarded. David O. Anyaele, Executive Director, Centre for Citizens with Disability (CCD) however, called on the federal government as well as the Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) to expand the nation’s financial inclusion policy to include provisioning for the disabled people in the society. Anyaele bemoaned the sustained lack of considerations for the disabled in the Nigerian financial system through different kinds of neglect and rights denials. He stated that audit of bank branches across the country showed the total absence or lack of access and convenience facilities for the disabled. He admonished prevailing attitudes of the financial systems against the disabled, describing it as major institutional barrier to financial inclusion Dr. Uju Ogubunka, CEO, Bank Customers Association of Nigeria, in his address stated that the financial inclusion policy of the federal government which commenced in 2012 is geared towards ensuring that no Nigerian is short changed in its financial intermediations policies and economic development plans. Ogubunka said that the government then out of the 84 percent financially excluded population, targeted to achieve 20 percent financial inclusion by year 2020. “The adult population has now increased above 84 percent and the unbanked population has also increased remarkably. If the people are outside the financial system, the economy will not develop,” Ogubunka stated. He explained that financial inclusion commences with opening bank account, which factors in the account holder towards benefiting from all forms of government’s financial support as the account drives all other transactions of the account holder. Also, to have insurance policy, investment accounts in the capital market, pension account and all forms of life and business enabling transactions driven only by the nation’s financial system, you need to be financially included, he stressed. Mallam Garba Kurfi, Managing Director APT Securities and Funds Limited, the guest speaker, buttressed that financial inclusion policy of the government helps to ensures that funds that could have been deployed for entrepreneurial initiatives don’t end up in cupboards at homes. Mr. Rotimi Olubi Managing Director; CEO ARM Securities Limited, representing Mallam Kurfi, in his presentation said that the government is recording remarkable progress in the financial inclusion target, adding more hands are on deck to ensure that economic advantage of the country’s large population translates to financial benefits to the people and institutions. The government, he stated, has designed financial support initiatives for rural women, artisans, petty traders, the financially disadvantaged, which can only be extended to only people who operates bank accounts. He said that funds are aggregated through savings in banks, investments in capital market or taking policies in insurance companies, such funds are further deployed to catalyse economic development through lending or for institutional growth. Mrs Yemisi Izuora, Editor, Oriental News Nigeria, said that the federal government and stakeholders in the financial sector have had to deal with expanding financial services to large community of underserved population and dealing with resilience challenges brought about by confluence of events that have taken place in the past couple of years.