ISEGHE AJAYI It is crucial for every financial focus-minded individual to do a proper evaluation of a mid-year budget especially if you have created one at the beginning of the year 2022. Some people at the onset of each year ensure they create a budget to help them manage their finances and track down expenses because without it accomplishing financial set goals may not be feasible. The unfavourable state of the economy has also made it almost impossible to adhere to your budget owing to the persistent rise in the prices of commodities. But then, it is crucial to analyse your budget so as to make the necessary adjustments which certainly will enable you to make headway in your financial life. With the first half of the year gone, there is need to take a cursory look at your expenses and match it with your total earnings to know how far you have performed in the last six months especially in the area of financial set goals. This will also help you to prepare wisely financially in this second half of the year. Since creating realistic budget seems practically unfeasible owing to high inflation coupled with the depreciating value of Naira, there is need to always review your budget particularly if you have surpassed your set financial goals in the first half of the year 2022. That is why it is important to adjust your lifestyle by being yourself and try as much as possible to live within your earnings because the present state of the economy does not respect financial status, hence, the need to enhance your earnings to defeat inflation and financial misery. Without a budget, there is no way you can track your money, manage it and experience financial freedom. But having a realistic one is better; it will alleviate your financial fears or burdens! -Advertisement- POLL The following tips will help you to assess your budget properly: Modify Your Budget If the cost of living is soaring sharply and you are finding it hard to survive owing to the fact that your budget is being squeezed to your own disadvantage you, then it is vital you alter your personal expenses and make changes where necessary and adjust your budget such that anticipated expenses would be accommodated and accounted for. Create Realistic Budget Now that you have put down or know where your money is coming from, where it is going and what you need to do to improve on your spending and savings habits, you are ready to put together your budget. However, if you need to amend your expenses figure out what you can afford to remove or lower in order to reach your financial goals. You may even reflect on finding ways to increase your income like a part-time job or hobby you can use to make money. Write out a realistic budget next to your current spending habits so you can easily see the changes you need to make and hold yourself accountable by setting a resolution with completion dates. Get Rid Of Unnecessary Expenses Write down all your reoccurring monthly financial obligations with their amounts such as rent, car repairs and other miscellaneous expenses. Then, move on to more fluid expenses like food, entertainment, utilities and gas. Include insurance, dental bills, haircuts and shopping on this list as well. Now look at this list and consider getting rid of what you do not need. Cutting out these expenses will help you save a little extra for the long term. Verify The Variation Subtract your monthly gross income from your monthly expenses to know how to adjust your budget if need be and also it will help you to know if your expenses are more than your take home or earnings. Do you have enough cash flow left for savings? If you are looking at a negative number, remember it is never too late to change bad habits. Instead of concentrating on what you have done wrong, focus on what you can do to improve. Review Your Financial Planning No matter how good your budget looks on paper, it is insignificant unless executed on a consistent basis. Rather than giving up completely when an unexpected expenses throws off your budget, make sure you have at least set an hour aside each month to review and revise your plan in case of any surprise expenses. Also, during this time, you will want to plan out how you will get use to your budget based on the situation while still being consistent with your savings. The unfavourable state of the economy has also made it almost impossible to adhere to your budget owing to the persistent rise in the prices of commodities Examine Your Spending Pattern While changes in your bills are one thing, looking for technique in your everyday spending can be a more demanding task. Evaluate your dealings in the past months using your debit or credit card statements and divide it down by categories. Looking at your spending patterns will assist you to measure how much you should set aside for optional expenses. Confirm how much you spend on provisions, food items and shopping in a week or month, then allocate accordingly. Automate Your Savings Automate your savings contributions each month such that a fixed amount of your monthly income goes directly to your savings as this will make it easier to stay on track with your savings goals. If your bank offers the option to separate your savings account into several categories, you can designate each account for a specific goal, such as building project, emergency fund and even car repairs. Separating your savings accounts this way can make it easier to see how close you are to your goal each month. Prioritise Unachievable Goals It is crucial to have a spending plan in place for the next six to 12 months that would enable you to set up goals to accommodate savings for enormous projects or expenses despite the situation of the economy. Planning your spending ahead allows you to use your money prudently and prioritize certain goals that that you feel might not be achievable. Be Goal Specific Be as specific as possible about your financial goals for the year. Do you want to set aside money for a vacation? Save for a new home purchase? Create an emergency fund? Or maybe you have goals that relate to spending less, dining out less, buying fewer luxuries . Write down a list of your top five goals that will make you feel more confident about your financial situation by this time next year. Be specific with the amount of income expected and also to expend such that you are able to set a deadline of when you expect to reach your goal as it is much easier to save if you have these specifics in mind.