 LAGOS – A Lagos Federal High Court has ordered the remand of a Bureau De Change (BDC) operator, Mr. Ibrahim Butali Abdul­mumin, in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Services (NCoS) till No­vember 21, when his trial over alleged N144 million fraud would commenced. The presiding judge, Justice Yellim Bogoro, ordered the remand of the BDC operator, after he pleaded not guilty to a two-count charge of ob­taining by false pretence and unlawful conversion of the sum of N144 mil­lion, fraudulently ob­tained from a company, to his personal use. Arraigning the 41 years old defendant, the prose­cutor, Mr. Henry Obiaze, from the Police Special Fraud Unit (PSFU) Ikoyi, Lagos, told the court that the defendant on January 20, 2022, by false pretence and with intent to de­fraud, obtained the sum of N144 million, under the pretence of exchanging it to the sum $250, 000 USD, at N576 to one Dollar. A Deputy Superin­tendent of Police (DSP), Obiaze, also told the court that the defendant converted the said sum of N144 million, derived directly by participating in criminal activity of obtaining money by false pretences, with the aim of either concealing or dis­guising the illicit origin of the money. He told the court that the offences allegedly committed by the BDC operator, contravened Section 1(1) (3) of the Ad­vance Fee Fraud and oth­er Fraud Related Offenc­es Act, 2006, and Section 15(1) (a) (b) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011. The defendant de­nied the allegations, and pleaded not guilty to the charges. Following his plea of not guilty, the prosecu­tor, Mr. Obiaze, asked the court for a trial date, while also asked the court to remand the defendant in NCoS’ custody till the determination of the charge. -Advertisement- POLL However, counsel to the defendant, Aminat Salawu, did not object to the trial date as request­ed by the prosecutor. She however, told the court that she needed a short date to file her client’s bail application. Justice Bogoro thereaf­ter adjourned the matter till November 21 for trial. He however ordered that the BDC operator be re­manded in the custody of the NCoS.