Ms. Samuela Isopi, the EU ambassador to Nigeria and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), in this interview conducted on the sideline of the 8th edition of the EU-Nigeria Business Forum tagged, ‘Nigeria and the New Economy’, with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on why discussions at the forum majorly dwelled on diversification of Nigeria’s economy, and how the EU will provide support towards the realisation of the goal and what modalities it would adopt in that regards. Excerpts: At the 8th edition of the EU-Nigeria Business Forum tagged: “Nigeria and the New Economy, which is ongoing, the call for diversifying Nigeria’s economy was dominant in the discussions made by various speakers. What can you say is the drive behind the call for diversification of Nigeria’s economy from EU’s perspective? I will begin to answer your question by saying that the size of the Nigerian economy, its ample internal market and demand, the country’s young population, and an affluent diaspora create a strong growth and digital economy potential. In the same vein, Nigeria’s relatively stable and sound financial sector, as well as the strong entrepreneurial and creative culture is a strong basis for growing its formal private sector and diversifying the economy. This in turn can help broaden the public revenue base and, subsequently, more public investment in the infrastructure and social sectors, further fueling the development of the economy and the recovery from the pandemic induced crisis. As you may be aware, agriculture is the backbone of the Nigerian economy, providing the main source of livelihood for most Nigerians and contributing about 22% to the nominal Gross Domestic Products (GDP). The prevalent smallholder farming systems however, rely on rain-fed agriculture, unsustainable farming practices and are highly prone to climate change, to which Nigeria is particularly vulnerable. Above all, and notwithstanding a number of policies adopted by the government, the sector does not produce the needed quantity and quality of output, nor does it create decent jobs for the country’s growing young labour force. -Advertisement- POLL In this context, the doubling of the population in the next 30 years points to enormous challenges for food security, employment creation and the country’s stability. Despite its abundant renewable energy resources (solar, hydro, wind) green energy only contributes about 18% of total power available on the grid. Several national renewable energy policies, electrification strategies and regulations , supported by the EU and other donors, increased the private sector participation in renewable (primarily off-grid) energy market, but are behind schedule in reaching the government’s 30 percent renewable generation target by 2030. Green economy and circular economy have proven profitable areas of investment and a source of sustainable jobs’ creation, but need to be supported by appropriate policies and financing mechanisms. How will EU support Nigeria towards diversification of her economy? In line with the EU’s Green Deal, the Green Economy Initiative will support the Nigerian government’s efforts to diversify the economy by combining support to enhance access to renewable energy for productive uses and boosting development of the agricultural sector, while integrating circular economy principles in the development models. The EU is of the view that collectively the actions will help Nigeria attain the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and put the country on a sustainable development path. The Initiative will offer support in areas of expertise and strong European contribution such as climate smart agriculture, technological/digital solutions, technical assistance and vocational training, employment and entrepreneurship creation, as well as access to sustainable energy, which is key for economic activity as a whole. In addition to a strong presence on the ground already established in the agricultural sector (including Germany, Netherlands, Denmark and France) and energy (currently mainly France, Germany), this TEI will forge new partnerships with the MSs interested in supporting Nigeria’s circular economy efforts. In parallel, the EIB sovereign lending will support the agri-food sector access to markets by financing rural roads, as well as climate adaptation and mitigation efforts. The EIB’s investments in infrastructure and private equity climate funds will facilitate renewable energy and other climate-related projects. The EIB’s and European DFIs’ technical assistance will be available to banks issuing SDGs and Green Bonds, whereas the EIB and European DFIs can also act as anchor investors. The EU’s Access to finance operations will be instrumental in strengthening the resilience to climate change and promoting financial inclusion. In the case of smallholder farmers, this will also be enhanced by the EIB support to the rollout of the Digital ID. Combining investment facilities for sustainable energy, agriculture and nature-based solutions by EDFI and European DFIs, coupled with policy dialogue and technical assistance by the EU and the EU Member States with this flagship initiative will create space for EU trade and investments while generating job opportunities, in particular for Nigeria’s youth. The TEI will be supported by public diplomacy to demonstrate the EU commitment to Nigeria in addressing the development challenges. In particular, the Nigeria-EU Business Forum will continue building on the success of its earlier editions, since 2012, while the Nigeria-EU Agri-food Platform, to be established, will reinforce business linkages. Promotion of the EU’s positive role in Nigeria’s economy will also continue through EuroCham (the European Businesses Organisation) established with the EU Delegation support in 2018. What are the modalities the EU is looking at? Let me start by saying that in agriculture, support will be provided to promote and increase climate-smart agricultural production and value added creation in selected value chains, in order to address food insecurity, increase agricultural exports, tackle skills gaps and create jobs. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture , and state level institutions, as appropriate, will be supported in the delivery of its mandate, and in particular, development of agricultural education/TVET, integrating ICT. Knowledge transfer from the European agriculture sector, and cooperation in the area of research and innovation, will be promoted in areas such as soil management, climate adaptation and mitigation, circular economy and agriculture. EU Horizon Europe and Copernicus programmes will be drawn upon in parallel under the MIP. Field interventions will concentrate on value chain “missing middle”, the approach that has already proven, including through the EU Competitiveness Programme, to create positive spillover effects up and down value chains through smallholder farmers, aggregators, processors, manufacturers, wholesalers, transporters and retailers. Channeling interventions at an aggregate level not only improves the productivity and quality output, but provides smallholder farmers with access to better/cheaper inputs, on the one hand, and markets and higher sale prices, on the other. Investments in processing, storage and standardisation to create hubs/post-harvest hubs for improved extension services, digital innovation and demonstration of climate resilient best practices will be supported through the EFSD+ instruments (under regional MIP) and a dedicated Investment Facility building on the EDFI ElectriFI and EDFI AgriFI instruments. This early stage/impact investment window will support investments in energy and agriculture, as well as digital and circular economy sectors. It will support growth of businesses to the stage where they become investment-ready for individual EU MS DFIs. Investments by EU companies will be encouraged in line with the government’s “backward value chain integration” policy. Interventions in the energy sector will include capacity building, policy dialogue and advice to the Federal Ministry of Power and its agencies, in developing an enabling policy environment, adoption and implementation of measures. They will concentrate on effective delivery of the Ministry’s mandate, including the Paris Agreement commitments, Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) targets, as well as development of new energy access business models with the private sector. Providing access to sustainable and reliable energy will be primarily for yet to be connected rural areas and productive load users, including for clusters of SMEs, farms and industries that are off the grid. Interventions will promote introduction of digital solutions, energy management systems and energy efficiency measures. Investments in both on- and off-grid projects will be supported by EFSD+ and other blending instruments in partnership with MS DFIs and the EU private sector, to de-risk projects and bridge financing gaps through equity, lending or guarantee instruments. The TEI will also provide support to the private sector in the area of project finance and implementation. Skills gaps in the energy and agriculture sectors will be addressed through TVET initiatives. Special attention will be given to the development of higher skilled human resources for agri-businesses, such as precision farming/irrigation technology and use of drones. A dedicated TA facility will be created in Nigeria to identify and build the capacity of eligible investment beneficiaries, including smallholder farmers. You are relatively new in Nigeria, but you have had experiences working in other developing countries, in the Central African Republic, Cameroon, Russia, and Afghanistan. What has been your experience since you resumed duty in August 2021 as the new European Union Ambassador to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States? It is almost a year that I resumed duty in Nigeria, and I try to be humble in the way I approach this country, as I did with all other countries. What I could see so far is the big potential of this country and the big challenges as well. What I have been trying to do, and will continue to do is very much trying to understand, trying to listen to people. So far so good, I have been looking also at the positive sides, positive stories, and then the positive side of our cooperation. Through travelling, I hope to be able to get a good understanding of the country as I have so far visited most part of the country. Since my resumption, I have tried meeting as many people as I can, and have even been interacting with the media just as we are presently interacting in this media parley, and I hope to meet as many people as possible, especially Nigerians. In the same vein, I have also been interacting with the civil society, because I really want to learn and I need to learn from those that are in the field as you are, working every day with the issues. I am a career diplomat who started almost 25 years ago. I spent most of my career abroad in seven countries before coming to Nigeria, but each country is different from the other. You could never and should never think that what you have done somewhere can simply be replicated or repeated in another. It is very true also in Africa, I was in Cameroon, although there are a lot of similarities, each country is very much different. I think Nigeria is very special, because yes, it is a developing country, but also you have a very big economy, a middle class, and a lot of things together. It is like being in several countries at the same time. This is what attracts me a lot, the diversity, which is maybe the most valuable resource that Nigeria has. We have so many things we can do together. If I look at my mission letter, there is almost everything. We are political partners, we have to work together to address the crisis in western Africa; working together on trade and investment because this is a country which is too big, too important, a big potential in terms of trade, in terms of some business opportunities for our companies here. We are very much engaged, committed and working on supporting the electoral process, trying also to support, under the rule of law, justice reform, human rights, particularly we focus on gender rights, these are things that are at the very heart of our attention. Within the framework of the new EU-ACP partnership, a major priority area is ‘human rights, democracy, and governance in people-centered and rights-based societies.’ Given the fact that the media needs to partner more to report SGBV, what is the EU doing to promote media freedom and freedom of expression in turn? You mentioned yourself that human rights are actually one of the main areas for us, not only one of the main areas in terms of cooperation but most of all, one of the main areas in terms of dialogue with the authorities. I think this is the very first mechanism that we have in place, the dialogue that we have with the government and authorities at all levels. We have a formal mechanism once a year to discuss with the authorities about human rights issues. And freedom of the media, freedom of speech is always something that is always very much on the agenda and of course, gender issues. So, this is the main mechanism, but also at the same time we have this dialogue which is continuous and regular with authorities and we always try to bring these issues forward in our discussions. In terms of concrete programmes on media, apart from the cooperation we already have with the media, with the new cooperation programme, we will have more opportunities to partner with media on key issues and on campaigns like campaigns on human rights. We do not have to my knowledge specific programmes for media, but as I said, the European Union considers media as human rights defenders and I am not talking about Nigeria, I am talking globally. There are guidelines that are even available online about guidelines on the protection of freedom of the press that outlines exactly what the EU does and what the EU delegations have to do to help protect space for media. We did this in some countries when we have journalists that are under threat and we are talking about the specific cases, there are things that we can do. There is a platform, there are mechanisms that we can put in place, and use to actually protect these people as we do normally with human rights defenders, activists. What will be your definition of success at the end of your time as ambassador to Nigeria? You know, it is not easy because the task is very big. There are things you cannot change at all, and that you cannot change in three or four years. If I think about the next priorities, I would say we have the capacity to support the electoral process, to help Nigerians to have good elections. Our role is simply to provide our expertise to the institutions, INEC, the other institutions, civil society to play their role; this is our role, will support those Nigerian mechanisms that exist. If we can help those institutions to fully play their role in the next electoral cycle that for me will be a success to the country and to the European Union. I think this is very much a priority for us or we can support the country in that regard. We have been talking about gender issues. To see some of these challenges and some of the commitments that I believe are very much genuine commitments to materialise and to have more convictions for gender-based violence and to have more women in parliament, more girls in school. These are things that I would consider as progress and a successful Nigeria and a success for us. On a purely bilateral basis, we would like to see our bilateral cooperation to be strong; trade to be strong. I would like to see more European companies coming here to invest, which will be a win-win situation because that will not only bring some European know-how, but will create good jobs, respect environment, transfer technology and develop the national industry. I think that will be something extremely strategic because this is something that can change a lot of things but it is not easy because there are a lot of issues we have to look at together. This is not something you can do in three or four years, but I think increasing the number of European companies in Nigeria will for me, wiil be a huge indicator of success.