LAGOS  – Adebola Famoroti is a business development expert and customer relationship expert, who regularly holds customer relationship management (CRM) seminars for small businesses, entrepreneurs and people who want to become entrepreneurs across the country. In an interview with Daily Independent, she said small business owners say that the operating environment is tough, that they do not have access to funding, that they do not have qualified manpower to run their operations and other challenges She urged them to collaborate and partner to reach more customers and increase their bottomline in the process. She emphasised that they should understand that the situation is not going to change overnight and that they strategize to overcome the challenges. She called on small businesses to collaborate and leverage on the strength of existing businesses in order to grow, adding that those that choose to do it alone will spend more resources and time in order to grow. The business relationship expert said that big businesses understand that collaboration is an important business strategy and are taking advantage of it to grow. “In Nigeria, people need to understand that we need to collaborate and collaborate well in order to grow and develop. Small businesses in the country are about competition and completion rather than collaboration and collaboration which is the way to go,” she stated. She urged businesses to value their customers and treat them well. Famoroti says she helps individual employees to know their potential and get rid of their impostor syndrome and build their confidence. POLL She added that she helps individual employees see themselves as important and contributing to the success of the organisations they work for. “I make them understand that they are of value; I make them see the value in them and bring out the value that they possess and help them use the value to become successful and make money,” she said. She stated that she helps individuals and business people see that they have what it takes to become successful in life and that they do “not need validation from anybody other than yourself. I make people have the potential in them and realize it.” The business development and customer relationship expert says she helps people to understand that what they listen to matters a lot, adding that when people listen to negative things, they tend to become negative in their thinking and attitude. She urged employees and employers to listen to things and people that are positive and avoid negative issues and people. She says one of the challenges she faces in the course of her work is getting people to believe in themselves. “Generally people are not born to be rich, it depends on your mindset and how you interpret the situation around you,” she explains. She urged employees to see themselves as adding to the organizations they work for, adding that they would not be retained if they were not adding value to the organisation. Famoroti asked employees to plan for their future, adding that they should invest in their future.