MTN Nigeria’s novel approach to its public offer has received commendation from Capital Market experts at the 2022 Investment Banking Awards organised by the Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (AIHN). A panel which included Chidi Iwuchukwu, Head, Investment Banking, Rand Merchant Bank, Dr. Ola Brown, Founder, Flying Doctors Healthcare Investment Group, Haruna Jalo-Waziri, Managing Director/CEO, Central Securities Clearing Systems Plc, Adeniyi Falade, Group Executive Director, Custodian Investment Plc and Danladi Verheijen, Managing Partner/Co-Founder, Verod Capital, discussed “The Future of Money – Prospects for Equity and Capital Raising in Nigeria”. The experts agreed that MTN has provided a template for packaging public offers going forward and recommended the same for other companies looking to raise capital to improve economic prospects for Nigerians and the African continent. Commenting further, Haruna Jalo-Waziri, said, “The innovative, technology-based approach provided a seamless, cost-effective and beneficial offer to investors, in turn kicking off a momentum in the market that needs to be sustained.” MTN Nigeria emerged as the winner from top three shortlisted firms for the Capital Market Titan Award 2021 category in recognition of the company’s active participation in the Nigerian Capital Market for the 2021 financial year. Receiving the award on behalf of MTN Nigeria, Modupe Kadri, Chief Financial Officer, said: “We are delighted by the high level of interest investors have shown in MTN Nigeria and we are particularly inspired by the number of young people who participated in the Capital Market, for the first time, through our Public Offer. “We are convinced that technology and innovation will play a large role in expanding access and inclusion for Nigerians. This is just the beginning,” Kadri concluded. Microsoft, Sterling Bank, NITDA Unveil Winners Of Agro-Tech Hackathon POLL In what appears to be another milestone in the Nigerian Agricultural sector, the tech giant, Microsoft, in collaboration with Sterling Bank, NITDA and TedPrime Hub has announced three agro-digital solutions as winners at the just concluded Microsoft Agro- Tech Hackathon. The grand finale, which was held at Microsoft Africa Transformation Office, Lagos Nigeria featured 10 solutions by the Nigerian youths from Abuja FCT, Benue, Enugu, Jos, Kaduna, Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Oyo and Sokoto. The winning digital solutions: Sell Harvest, Farmsquare and Farmers’ Market were announced as first (with N2.5M), second with (N1.5M) and third position with (1 Million Naira) respectively by Sterling Bank after rigorous pitch rounds and product testing reviews by season experts and independent jury drawn from Agriculture, Technology, Entrepreneurship, Research and Development sectors. The National Hackathon, which commenced in March 2022 with the ultimate goal of designing digital solutions that bolster the value chain in agriculture and connect thousands of farmers to end-product users together for the next decade was designed by Microsoft in partnership with Sterling Bank and NITDA. Olatomiwa Williams, the Microsoft Country Manager Nigeria and Ghana, while speaking at the opening session, in her Keynote reiterated the position of Microsoft in harnessing the potentials of African youths to support the continent by raising over 40,000 home grown Start-ups in critical sectors as envisioned by Microsoft Africa Transformation Office. “It is Microsoft’s pleasure to onboard these creative youths as finalists at this occasion into the exclusive Microsoft Global Entrepreneurship Program. Dr. Olushola Obikanye, the Group Head, Agric & Solid Minerals Finance of Sterling Bank PLC, in his presentation expressed his delight on the new milestone in the Nigeria’s agricultural sector through a robust digital transformation framework as one of the five pillars of Sterling Bank’s approach to National Development outside its core banking services. In his remarks, Mr. Ahmad Bature while representing the Director-General, NITDA noted that sustainable innovation and creativity among the young people of Nigeria remain the heartbeat of the Nigeria Information Technology Development Agency. “The Director-General has approved the sum of N3,150,000 to support the remaining top 7 finalists with exclusive access to NITDA-Deployed IT Hubs across the country including the National Centre for AI and Robotics, Abuja and NITDA-coordinated programmes for Start-Ups post Hackathon” Mr. Bature announced.