The Ovie of Uvwie Kingdom, HRM Emmanuel Sideso, JP has assured investors willing to do business in the Uvwie Local Government Area of a conducive atmosphere for it to thrive just as management of Premium Trust Bank has assured intending customers of unique as well as peculiar services for their financial growth. HRM Sideso JP gave the assurance at the official opening of the Effurun branch of Premium Trust Bank, he said that the era of youth restiveness in the kingdom is now a thing of the past urging the management of the bank to ensure that the host community is carried along which would, in turn, make the people create a peaceful environment for the bank to thrive. According to HRM Sideso, “if you are operating in an environment, it is necessary that you plough back to the environment. I see your bank as one which will bring growth and development to the people in this environment and we will do everything to support you. We will continue to ensure that there is a conducive atmosphere for your bank and other would-be investors to transact your businesses in Uvwie and its environs.” HRM Sideso added, “choosing Uvwie to open this branch of your bank was not a mistake and I am praying that more branches will be opened in this place within a short time. You have made it clear that you are not leaving Uvwie empty and not leaving Uvwie, so we want more branches in Uvwie. I pray almighty God to bless you and your staff and create a conducive atmosphere for you so that they (staff) can grow with the Bank.” He described the bank as a first-class bank and one in a million among the comity of banks in the country, saying; “first, I thank God for having Premium Trust Bank here. I have gone round the facilities, and it is top of the class of any bank based here. Like I said earlier, we will continue to pray for the growth of this bank”. Welcoming guests at the opening ceremony, Mr. Emmanuel E. Emefienim, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank said that though the bank was new, it parades seasoned bankers with more than 150 years of experience in the banking industry. Mr. Emefienim noted, “Premium Trust Bank is a new bank licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) some months back, but it is not entirely new because the management team behind the bank have vast experience in the industry. Between April 19, 2022, when the bank first commenced its business activities, the Effurun branch became the fifth branch the bank had opened. Today marks a major landmark for Premium Trust Bank as we open our fifth branch. It should also be noted that within the next two weeks, the Abuja branch will be opened – that makes it six branches in a row”. He remarked that the speed at which branches are being opened underscores the fact that the people behind the bank understand the business – saying, “we are not in it to make up the numbers but to make a whole lot of difference in the industry.. We will deliver the type of service that is peculiar and unique not just to Premium Trust Bank but to the host communities. We have come into the Nigerian banking industry not just to increase the number of banking options available to customers, but to do things differently.” -Advertisement- POLL The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank disclosed that the bank would be unique in discharging its services to its customers in three distinct ways, adding, “firstly, we will be co-creating with our customers to provide customized solutions suited to their needs. Because we understand the customers, we will not throw up products and push them into the market. We want them to be part of the solutions. We will sit with them (customers), consider their needs and come up with solutions that will be tailor-made to address those needs.” Mr. Emefienim added that the response time from banks to customers is usually a big challenge in the banking industry, saying, “we will not only deliver value, but we will always do so with a sense of urgency – this speaks to our speed of execution. When you understand the business and what the customer wants, it is easy for you to respond to their needs in record time. So, we deliver services to customers, but we do them with a sense of urgency, executing it in a timely manner.” He assured the Uvwie Kingdom that the bank is not only out to do business to make a profit there but would ensure that the Kingdom is positively impacted by their(bank’s) presence, adding, “we will do business not just to make a profit but to impact the community where we serve. One certain thing is that we will not leave Effurun the way we met it. Our slogan is – Together for growth. We will support and grow businesses. We will impact the environment. We will touch lives. I am sure that we will make a positive impact within the community. So Premium Trust Bank is here to stay and we will deliver the kind of value that will exceed expectations by the grace of God.” A high point of the ceremony was the official cutting of the tape by Pastor Sunday Akande, Assistant Continental Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) to officially open the bank for business activities in Uvwie and its environs with an assurance that, “we are confident that it is a bank we can trust”.