The Managing Director/CEO of the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, has given assurance on the agency’s determination to cart away all refuse generated during the Sallah celebrations towards a sustainable clean environment. He gave the indication on Thursday while reviewing the Authority’s level of preparedness to tackle the expected huge volume of waste to be generated during Eid-el-Kabir festivities. Odumboni stated that the various operational districts have been properly positioned to cope seamlessly with the increased volume of waste expected from residents around the city. His words: “We are well aware that the Sallah period will leave us with tons and tons of waste to evacuate. Be assured that we are fully prepared and equipped for the task. It is not the first time we will be doing it; we will do it again and even better this time around. “Our various operational districts have been properly positioned and empowered to tackle the expected task. This is just to assure you that LAWMA is fully prepared for the challenge”. Speaking further, the General Manager stated that despite the persisting challenge of exorbitant diesel costs, LAWMA is scaling hurdles to deliver on its mandate and has directed PSP operators to work around the obvious challenge and render the required services to the people for the common good of all. Odumboni disclosed that part of the extra measures put in place for a dirt-free celebration includes mass distribution of trash bags at praying grounds for Muslim faithful to properly bag their waste, especially animal waste, adding that a newspaper publication of the names and contacts of LAWMA officials has also been designed to advise residents on getting prompt service intervention. He urged Lagosians to observe the festivities with moderation and piety in line with spiritual injunctions, advising them to desist from dumping wastes indiscriminately on road medians, canals, uncompleted buildings and other unauthorised locations. -Advertisement- POLL The LAWMA boss also stated that the Authority’s management team have been assigned to different locations around the metropolis to monitor the environment during the period, calling on residents to contact the agency through its toll-free lines 07080601020 or 617for any requests. While wishing all Muslim faithful happy celebrations, Odumboni advised residents to shun all acts capable of negative impact on the environment, stressing that everyone has a duty to be consciously involved in fostering a sustainable and hygienic environment.