KATSINA – The annual festival of Eid al-Adha or the Festival of Sacrifice marks the end of the hajj pilgrimage to Mecca by hundreds of millions of Muslims. It is usually celebrated with prayers offered on the Eid ground, followed by the slaughter of goats, sheep and cattle in commemoration of the Prophet Abraham’s readiness to sacrifice his son to show obedience to Allah. In Katsina state, President Muhammadu Buhari arrived his country home, Daura for the Eid-el- Kabir on Friday evening. He had earlier landed at the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua International Airport, Katsina, where he was received by Governor Aminu Bello Masari and top government officials before being flown to the ancient town in a helicopter. At the Kofar Arewa Eid ground in Daura, President Muhammadu Buhari in company of his son, Yusuf, the emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruk Umar and other top ranking personalities observed the two Rak’at prayers to mark the Sallah occasion. The prayer which was led by imam Safiyanu Yusuf Dansanwa commenced at about 10:00 am and ended exactly 10:05 am. Also in attendance were the traditional and religious leaders including the district, ward and village heads as well as the business and political stalwarts in the town. Thereafter, President Muhammadu Buhari slaughtered his ram as a mark of his sacrifice as ordained by Allah. Earlier, before the commencement of the Eid prayers, security had been beefed up at the Eid ground by the Police, the army, the DSS, the Civil Defense Corps and other sister agencies to secure the place. POLL Daily Independent reporter observed that, the Eid ground was surrounded by the security agencies with the movement of vehicles and others restricted. In Katsina, Governor Aminu Bello Masari in company of his deputy, QS Mannir Yakubu and other top government functionaries observed their two Rak’at prayers at Usman Bin Fodio mosque in Modoji community. Imam Mukhtar Jibia led the prayers which had in attendance top political stakeholders, supporters and other well meaning people of the state. Shortly after the two Rak’at prayers, Governor Masari slaughtered his ram in commemoration of the occasion. Meanwhile, thousands of Muslims trooped out to various mosques in Katsina metropolis to observe the two Eid-elKabir Rak’at prayers. As early as six o’clock this morning, Muslims both young and elderly were seen heading to designated Eid grounds to catch up with the prayers. At the mosques, Islamic scholars and Imams in their separate sermons encouraged the slaughtering of prescribed animals as sacrifice. Acccording to the Islamic scholars, those who sacrificed their wealth in the course of Almighty God have rewards awaiting them in the hereafter. They also enjoined Muslims to intensify prayers for God intervention on the current economic and security challenges bedeviling the people of the state and the nation at large. They further admonished faithfuls on the need to be their brothers keepers for the betterment of the larger society. The Islamic scholars prayed Allah to provide credible leaders at all levels as the 2023 general elections draws nearer.