BAUCHI – A group known as Kaura Students Support Forum (KSSF), in Bauchi state has endorsed the governor, Bala Mohammed for a second term in recognition of his tremendous achievements in the education sector. Addressing journalists at NUJ Press Center, Bauchi, the National Chairman of the students’ forum, Sani Adamu stated that the governor deserved reelection to enable him to consolidate on his gains in critical sectors of the state’s economy, particularly education. Sani acknowledged the achievements of Governor Bala in the payment of scholarships, WAEC and NECO examinations fees, renovations and construction of schools among others and pledged the forum’s support to his administration for better service delivery. He explained that the Kaura Students Support Forum was formed since 2019 with executives across the 20 local government areas of the state with a membership of over 1.5 million students that are loyal to the administration of Governor Bala Mohammed in all ramifications. “Payment of Bursary allowances (Scholarship) to indigenous students of Bauchi State studying in the tertiary institutions of learning across the country since the assumption of Governor Bala including outstanding scholarship that was failed to be paid by the former administration of APC is just but few of His Excellency’s achievements in the educational sector. “It is pertinent to all Bauchi State Students and the entire public to realize the tremendous efforts and achievements of the Bauchi State Government in the education sector and at this juncture, I will say that Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed is a leader with every passion and we the Bauchi State Students are here at this mega press conference to endorse Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed to serve again in the position of the Governor of Bauchi State in 2023 General Election. “In view of the above, the forum described His Excellency Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed (Kauran Bauchi) as a father, an icon of Youth/Students motivation, a pathfinder in progress, and a gentle and honest leader of the 21st century. The Sen. Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed Legacy Project and leadership intelligence are not just a credit to him alone but to the entire Bauchi State students and youths” he said -Advertisement- POLL Sani on behalf of members of the forum used the medium to commend the tremendous efforts and support of Abdulrazak Nuhu Zaki, the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs for his dedication, sacrifice, and commitment to the success of the forum and to the entire Bauchi state students.