LAGOS – Prince Segun Obayendo, Group Managing Director, Temple Group Limited, has said Computerised Vehicles inspection is a veritable means of improving road safety, calling motorists to embrace the computerised inspections, stressing that the Computerised inspections has proven to deliver accurate road worthiness status of vehicles, to reduce carnages, improve safety of motorists and other road users. Prince Obayendo revealed this after receiving the award for the ‘Best road transport technology provider of the year’ at the just concluded maiden edition of the National Transport Technology Conference & Exhibition gala/awards night, held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, organised by the Nigeria Transport Commissioners’ Forum. Upon receiving the prestigious award from Dr. Boboye Olayemi Oyeyemi MFR, Corp Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Obayendo thanked the organisers of the Conference for pooling the Federal Ministry of Transportation and its parastatals as well as experts in transport technology and modal transportation within and outside the country together to analyze and brainstorm on topical issues concerning the present and future of the Transport industry in Nigeria. Obayendo said, “I must commend the Lagos state government, the Honourable Minister of State for Transportation, Gbemisola Ruqayyah Saraki, the Transportation Commissioners and all transport stakeholders for their commitment to improvements in the Transportation sector. The time is ripe to embrace intelligent transport as captured by the theme of the event; ‘Multimodality and Interconnectivity: Achieving a Greener Transport Systems in Nigeria’.” Obayendo who doubles as the Managing Director Lagos Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service (LACVIS) enthused, “I will request all motorists and road users to avert road mishaps by going for regular computerised vehicle inspection to prevent accidents by decreasing the number of defective vehicles on the roads. For a couple of decades now, such periodic vehicle Inspection is a standing legislation in many countries worldwide and Nigeria must not be left behind. I am grateful to a mentor like Dr. Boboye and his Corp for their support over the years.” The Group M.D, Temple SYC Inspection Limited, also bagged the award for the ‘Best road transport technology provider (PPP)’. Similarly, the Best Transportation Infrastructure Award (South West) was carted away by Lagos state while Ogun State bagged the “Emerging Transportation Infrastructural Hub in Nigeria” awards among others. The Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service began in Abuja as The Abuja Computerised Vehicle Testing Centre and is now operational in over 28 states in the country including Lagos, Ondo, Kano and Rivers State.