Barely three weeks after the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) suffered a scandalous defeat by coming distant third in the June18 Governorship Poll in Ekiti, the party had embroiled in leadership crisis. A pro-Ayo Fayose group had issued a statement suggesting the appointment of new State Chairman to fill the vacuum created by the exit of former occupant, Otunba Bisi Kolawole who ran as the party’s candidate in the just concluded poll. A statement  by the acting chairman of the PDP, Lanre Omolashe and State Secretary, Mrs. Funmi Ogun claimed that one, Engr Agboola, from Ijero Ekiti and been appointed to replace Kolawole. The appointment of Engr Agboola as the substantive State Chairman, according to the statement was among the resolutions at the State Executive Committee meeting held in Ado Ekiti today. “At the Exco meeting of the PDP, Ekiti State, which held at the State Secretariat of the Party, at the instance of the Chairman (Acting) – Hon. Lanre Omolase, on Monday, 4th July, 2022, the quorum at attendance being over and above one-third of the total membership of the Exco, deliberated on the need to appoint a substantive Chairman for our Party, in accordance with the Party’s Constitution”, Omolashe. But another statement from the State Publicity  Secretary of the party, Raphael Adeyanju  has dismissed the purported appointment of new chairman. Adeyanju maintained that the  entire process of appointment of the State Party Chairman is exclusively the responsibility of the State Executive Council, (SEC), which comprises all major stakeholders of the party numbering about 60. He also members of the public to ignore all other communications that is not from the official spokesperson of the party, herein the State Publicity Secretary of PDP. -Advertisement- POLL “This is to inform the general public that purported appointment of the State PDP Party Chairman by the former Governor, Mr. Ayo Fayose should be ignored in its totality, since he cannot put something on nothing. “The meeting of the State SEC is presently ongoing to ratify the nomination of the central Senatorial district, thus satisfying section 47 (6) of the party constitution. “The name of the substantive State Chairman of PDP as confirmed by SEC will be announced shortly.” Adeyanju hinted.