KANO – Sadiq Wali gubernatorial campaign committee on Saturday in Kano cautioned Independent Electoral Commission to refrained from creating chaos in the election process in the state. Malam Shehu Kura, Chairman Media Committee Wali Campaign Organisation in a statement that was made available to INDEPENDENT said “INEC has no power, authority, precedence or role in the nomination process of any party except as an observer.” Malam Shehu Kura’s reaction came on the heels of a report in a section of the media that allegedly quoted Kano Resident Electoral Commissioners, Professor Shehu Risqua Arabu to have recognized Muhammad Abacha as PDP Gubernatorial candidate in the state . Two PDP gubernatorial candidates emerged from parallel congress conducted by Sagagi and Wali faction of the party last month. The statement by Wali Campaign Organisation reads in part “The attention of Sadiq Wali gubernatorial campaign committee has been drawn to news reports alleging the Kano state office of Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has again injects itself in the midst of the 2023 campaign in the state.” Kura emphasised that “For the avoidance of any and all doubts, under the 1999 constitution (as amended) and the 2022 electoral act, INEC has no power, authority, precedence or role in the nomination process of any party except as an observer. Only a party has absolute power of planning and conducting any nomination primaries.” The statement lamented “It is therefore worrisome for INEC in Kano state, for the third time in less than two months, to try to usurp the powers of PDP in that regards. INEC national officials, including a respected and reputable national commissioner in the person of Mohammed Haruna from Niger state, has recently came out to debunk the notion that INEC has any role in the monination process except as an observer only. “ Kura explained that “It is, therefore, disheatening, reckless, and irresponsible for the INEC office in Kano to keep misleading and creating chaos in the election process in the state.” -Advertisement- POLL He stated that “PDP members and delegates have spoken loudly, and their voices were heard all over the nation when they nominated Alhaji Sadiq Wali as their candidate for governor in the state. “ The signed statement revealed that “A national committee of the party has already screened his running mate, Dr. Yusuf Bello Danbatta for the joint ticket. It is, therefore, confusing, unethical, and illegal for Kano INEC to continue to raise an old controversy that will overheat the political space in the state. “ Kura therefore appealed “INEC should allow the party to remain in peace and to internally and responsibly resolve any complaints emanating from any primary election, if there are any such complaints and to let the party move forward and plan for the general elections. “ He assured that “INEC’s meddling in our affairs will not deter us from our efforts of taking back the government in the state in 2023 and no amount of distraction, sabotage, or official intimidation from any quarters will derail it from that. “ Kura called on “millions of our party faithfuls and supporters not to be distracted or discouraged by any machinations from any quarters and remain focused on our mission of total success in 2023.”