JOY ANIGBOGU In its determination to take over power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023, the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that it strategizes to win the forthcoming general elections. There is speculation in some quarters that the choice of ace actress, Funke Akindele as its deputy gubernatorial candidate in the 2023 general elections, may not be unconnected to the strategy of the party to benefit from her large followership as popular actress, comedian and a successful entrepreneur. Few days ago the actress was formally unveiled as the running mate of the governorship candidate of the party, Dr. Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor in a colourful event which took place in Ikorodu. During the unveiling ceremony Jandor spoke highly of his 44 years old running mate who he said is a lawyer, well educated and an employer of labour for over14 years. The attendance at the event suggested that Jandor must have done a wide consultation among the party leaders before the decision to settle for Funke was taken. Wahab Owokoniran, Chief Taiwo Kuye, former member South-West caretaker committee, Chief (Mrs) Aduke Maina, member of Board of Trustees (BoT), state chairman of the party, Dr. Philip Aivoji, Nicholas Akowala, Wale Gomez, Lagos Central Senatorial candidate, Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Areoland, Lagos West Senatorial candidate, Baba Bisi, Odunsi, Ganiyu Adekunle, Princess Sadiat Fafowora, Bankole Wellington, popularly called BankyW, candidate of the party for House of Representatives Eti-Osa constituency and his counterpart in Ajeromi-Ifelodun, Bartholomew Chima, also called Omobarca and a host of other candidates, and members were on ground to observe the handing over of the party’s flag to Funke as the deputy governorship candidate of the party in Lagos State. The occasion afforded the party leaders the opportunity to pray for the duo, promising Lagosians that the change that they have been yearning for will happen as soon as Jandor and Funke take over leadership in 2023. POLL Philip Aivoji, the state party chairman said that as an organised party, the PDP has searched and presented the duo of Jandor and Funke to bring the best for Lagosians and deliver the people from years of destruction by the ruling party. Jandor made a brief stop at the palace of the Oba of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, to pay respect to the traditional ruler who incidentally is the royal father in charge of the area where Funke comes from, before he arrived the venue of the event. Speaking on the choice of his running mate, Jandor said, “After winning the ticket, I thought I needed somebody who would complement the work that we have done over the years, somebody who shared the same passion and vision with me in advocacy, and someone who has been an overseer of her own business over the years. The person who can appreciate the pain of the people, someone who has been managing people, who has been winning in her own little space, and I reasoned that such a person will be able to connect given an assignment of this nature. “I discovered my sister Funke who will be deputy governor of Lagos state by the grace of God in 2023, she will compliment my efforts. My deputy governor is a youth. She is 44 years old. “We need a breath of fresh air in Lagos because for over 20 years the state has been in a deplorable condition and we cannot continue like that. The managers of this state are tired. You can imagine somebody who has earlier banned okada to come back in 2022 to ban the same okada that he has earlier banned. They have done their best and I think that it is time for them to leave. He added, “I consulted widely among the party leaders before I arrived at the choice of my running mate. You can see the state chairman of our party, member Board of Trustees (BoT) of our party introducing my deputy to the members of the party and the Ikorodu people. “Our candidacy is a departure from the norm and that spells doom for the ruling party,” Jandor said. An elated Funke in response to her choice as the deputy governorship candidate said that as a person she used to think that politics was a dirty game and practiced by corrupt people but said that if people should run away from politics who will correct the rot in the system. “I must commend our late mother, Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya, who was tired of the poor state of things, and the deplorable condition of infrastructure in Lagis State, so I am standing in for her today. “I have a business that I have managed for 14 years and when Jandor approached me I took the decision to abandon the business and join him because I have a passion to help the youths. “Getting the call from Jandor was a clarion call and what I have been doing on a small scale I want to replicate on a large scale. I get worried about the state of things in Lagos State, the bad roads, poor infrastructure, and the dilapidated state of our health care system, so when this call came, I knew that the time had come for me to take up the responsibility even though it is new terrain. She added, “Jandor is a very positive person. He is very passionate about the young people and is ready to bring positive changes. “I have seen him sacrifice so much. He sacrificed his business for over seven years for the project, to be able to bring positive change to the Lagos people. What other sacrifice is greater than that? I have to also make my own sacrifice so that we can join hands to give Lagosians opportunity of a better life,” Funke noted “I am a mother. I am passionate about the youths. I am passionate about women. We have talents in this country. We are very hard working people, so I would like to see us export some of the things that we have. We have great talents that we can export,” she said. According to Chief Taiwo Kuye, former member of caretaker committee of South-West, PDP said that the combination of Jandor and Funke is the best combination that can win Lagos State for the party. He said, “It is a good combination of young people that can win the election for us in Lagos State. They are very determined and hungry for winning. Having Jandor as our governorship candidate and Funke as his running mate is a win-win for us in Lagos State, this is away from what APC does in Lagos state. You can see the likes of the candidates that they are presenting to Lagosians. The agenda has shifted away from what is normally obtained. “We are in the process of bringing in young people to make everything work for the best of the people. So, the pDP has made a very good choice to carry the young people along in governance and it is going to pay off and increase our chances at the polls. On the effect of the planned defection of some of the gubernatorial aspirants who contested alongside Jandor, but are aggrieved because they were not considered for the deputy governorship position, Kuye said, “Nobody has defected from the party. It is only one of them who expected to be made a deputy governorship candidate and it is not even making any impact. There is nothing to worry about such a person. As we speak he has not even defected. If he finally defects, we wish him good luck.” Meanwhile the Lagos State chapter of the APC has reacted to the nomination of Funke Akindele popularly known as Jenifa, as the running mate to the governorship candidate of the PDP, Jandor. Spokesman of the party, Mr. Seye Oladejo in a statement said the choice of Akindele “underscores the unseriousness of Lagos state PDP.” He said, “This amounts to trivializing the importance of the forthcoming gubernatorial elections by giving political neophytes who have absolutely nothing to bring to the table their electoral tickets. “It also shows lack of depth in the party as regards quality members to put forward for elections if they could give a member who crossed-carpeted a few days before their primaries the governorship ticket and now went to the make-believe industry to fetch a deputy. “The reason for voters’ apathy is, undoubtedly, due to lack of credible alternatives by the moribund opposition party. “I was amused to read that the deputy governorship candidate said she was suspending her acting career for the elections whose result is highly predictable. I guess she’s suspending a lot more because she has been in the news recently for all the wrong reasons,” Oladejo said. He added, “Lagosians will certainly not allow governance to be turned to a needless experiment or a sitcom. Governance is serious business, not a circus.”