LAGOS – LAWMA Academy, the academic arm of the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), has received an award as ‘Government Agency of the Year’, at the 3rd edition of Lagos Waste Forum, organized by Statewide Waste and Environmental Education Programme, SWEEP Foundation, at the University of Lagos, Akoka, Yaba. Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Wife of the governor of Lagos State, who had earlier declared the event open, copiously commended the Foundation, for sustaining their environmental advocacy, which they began three years ago. According to her, “I attended your inaugural event three years ago and it was so impressive. I am happy you have sustained the good environmental sustainability advocacy work, which has already made you a champion in Surulere area. I challenge you to replicate the good impact in other parts of Lagos State. I am also considering going into full-scale recycling business someday”. Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, the Managing Director/CEO LAWMA, represented by the Executive Director, Finance, Mr. Kunle Adebiyi, while commenting on the LAWMA Academy Award, expressed delight and showered encomiums on the foundation, for recognizing the modest contribution of the Academy to environmental education and advocacy. He noted that the unit was established just over a year ago, with the mandate of teaching waste management, as well as environmental care and sustainability to the youths and children. He said: “We are happy that just over one year in existence, the impact of LAWMA Academy is already being felt. “Our intention is to pass knowledge of waste management and environmental sustainability to children and youths, through a well-designed and articulated curriculum. We are happy that it is gradually making an impact and recognition of this, is what has given birth to this award. We thank the SWEEP Foundation for this lasting honour”. Speaking further, the LAWMA helmsmen enjoined Lagosians, to tap the huge economic potential in recycling, and to embrace the twin-bin initiative of the Agency, to solve waste management challenges in the Lagos metropolis. -Advertisement- POLL He noted also, that the role of the Authority was to regulate the operations of the various players in the waste management space. According to him, “LAWMA as an agency saddled with the responsibility of regulating and ensuring proper waste management, through community advocacy has visited over 30 LCDAs, sensitizing people on the need to key into recycling by separating their waste at source.”