..APC Has Been Rigging Elections In Osun Since – Atiku … APC Is Fake Progressive – Ademola Adeleke Countdown to the July 16th 2022 governorship election in Osun State, the Presidential Candidate of the main opposition party in the country and his Vice Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, Senator Ifianyin Okowa, National Chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu and other leaders of the party on Thursday stormed Osogbo, Osun State Capital to rally support for the party’s governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke in a bid to unseat current Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola in the Saturday poll. The party leadership gave their support to the candidate, Ademola Adeleke at a mega rally held at the party secretariat at Biker Area along Ikirun Osogbo Road. Ace musician, popularly known as Davido was also present at the rally to trill thousand of PDP members and supporters that thronged the venue of the rally. While addressing the crowd at the rally, the Presidential Candidate of the party come 2023, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku lamented that the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) had been rigging electoral processes all through and that it is time to put a stop to their antics. Atiku explained that Osun State is a PDP state but APC has since been rigging elections in the state. According to him, “the first time they rigged election in the state it was through court and the second time was carried out in 2018 when our party was rigged out. POLL “This time around, we will not allow it to happen again. We must come together and vote APC out and I am assuring you all that voting out APC will wipe out our tears in the state. The National Chairman of PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayo who presented the party’s candidate, Ademola Adeleke with the party flag said that there is darkness in the state and all hands must be on deck to bring back light to the state. He called on the residents of the state to vote for Ademola Adeleke to make a change in the state because they cheated us four years ago. Former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola while speaking enumerated his achievements while in office between 2003 and 2010 and sang songs to cap it up. Senator Ademola Adeleke appreciated the crowd and the mandate given to him in 2018 which he said was stolen from him. According to him, “APC have their way in 2018, this time around, we are back again in 2022, we are ready for the battle. Present at the rally is former Vice President, Alhaji Namadi Sambo, Chairman of the PDP governors forum, Alhaji Aminu Tanbuwa, Governor of Sokoto, and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola among others. The party however lamented the denial by the Osun State government to use public facilities, Osogbo city stadium, and freedom park, for the mega rally. The party caretaker chairman, Dr Adekunle Akindele, while addressing journalists in the party secretariat in Osogbo, the Osun state capital, said “It’s sad that Mr Oyetola has done everything within his powers as the governor to frustrate our efforts to have our mega rally using public facilities. With the way things are going, it’s empirical evident that the governor has seen failure, hence his refusal to allow us to have our rally. “Like we mentioned the last time we had interaction with the media concerning the scheduled grand finale of our governorship Campaigns in Osun State, the Apc administration under the watch of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola had remained adamant in denying our party access to all facilities we formally sought to hold today’s rally. After due consultations with prominent stakeholders in the state, including our highly revered royal fathers, and the leadership of our party, decided to make do with the vicinity of our state secretariat for our Mega Rally. “Our party considers the action of the state government as an affront of a dying horse and a deliberate attempt to provoke violent reactions from the good people of Osun State, thereby, instigating crisis in the state. It is a shame and a dent on the noble race of the Yoruba nation that a governor living at the mercy of taxpayers’ money would find it convenient to descend so low. “It is elementary for any reasonable government to know that public facilities are meant for public use. The main bowl of the Osogbo City Stadium we applied to use for today’s rally for instance, had been put in place and adequately maintained by successive administrations in the state for use of our people even before Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola retraced his history to Osun State from Lagos for political trading. “It is therefore absurd and defeatist at that, for the governor to be playing pranks with the same people who have managed the state and the facilities before he was imposed on the state through a globally acknowledged stolen mandate. “Nigerians should know we chose a path of peace in this instance only for the sake of our people, especially the good people of Osogbo. We reckoned that it will be inhuman to add salt of anarchy Mr Gboyega Oyetola is drifting out of frustration, to the injuries of his woeful and scandalous performance in the last four years. “We are not unaware that Mr Gboyega Oyetola by his refusal to grant our party, the required permission to use the facility, was just only testing waters of the large-scale violence he is planning against the state. We want to assure him and his cohorts that he would be matched. “Any attempt to subvert the electoral verdict of our people will be resisted as bonafide residents of the State. It will not be in his interest nor that of the entire country to underestimate this resolve. “While we call on President Mohammadu Buhari to be awake about the crisis Oyetola is brewing in Osun State, we call on our people not to be discouraged by the defeatist antics of Mr Oyetola and his baby vuvuzelas. This election is not just about the PDP or Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke, but for the good of our people and humanity in general.