An Ebonyi State Socio-cultural in Diaspora (AEISCID) has issued a stern warning to the state founding fathers and traditional rulers against alleged moves by Governor Dave Umahi to arm-twist them into rotating the governorship position of the state on a basis other than “qualification, competence and proven track records” of contestants. The group’s call followed what it described as the Governor’s “selfishness, greed and in fact, his desperation to continue to control the affairs of our dear State from behind the scene.” A statement issued on Monday in Abuja by its National President, Ambassador Paschal Oluchukwu, also called on the people to support and vote for contestants who are able to turn around the fortunes of the state. The statement quoted a speech by the Governor who while addressing a gathering of founding fathers of the state and other elders at the weekend insisted on the rotation of the Governorship to the Northern part of the state. The Governor reportedly said, “I expect you all to be vocal about equity, fairness, and justice for the peace of the state. What is just is for the North to start the second circle, after the North, the central, and then the South. So, I charge you to begin to draw the charter of equity now. People will say that it is a charter of equity written in the heart, but we are alive, and I will support you to do justice to that. “I have demonstrated equity, fairness, and justice to the task, leveraged on that, and I am vocal about it. I will not want the south or central to make the mistake that will hunt them tomorrow.” According to the statement, Umahi’s endorsement of the Speaker and his running mate is synonymous with a third-term agenda of his administration. “We feel and rightly too that the governor is only deeply angered by the overwhelming unpopularity of his choice candidate and is therefore looking for a means to sell and push his evil agenda through our elders and founding fathers some of who have been severely subjugated and are also not very well informed on the happenstances in the present misgovernance that Umahi has brought upon our dear State which has left key critical sectors like education, health care and even agriculture in ruins. Otherwise, were they not the same founding fathers he (Umahi) snubbed upon ascension to power in 2015- insisting he does not need their advice to govern Ebonyi? POLL Why market his unsellable and unpopular gubernatorial candidate through the same elders and leaders now? “Or is Nwifuru not the same stooge who as the head of the Legislative arm of government has been approving loans, memos and requests without any form of debate just to please the Governor whom he considers and calls his boss? “That Ebonyi’s debt profile has soared under the present human-less Umahi administration which mainly considers concrete-mixing as development is now audible to the deaf and visible to the blind. For all we know and have read in various media platforms about the said Nwifuru in the past seven years- his alleged disposition to political thuggery and violence, including his poor academic credentials, we as global citizens will never admonish Ebonyi people to support and vote such a character into a position as exalted as the office of a Governor of Ebonyi State,” it added. It also advised leaders in the state to be wary of what it described as “any political product Governor Umahi might be hiding behind, to smuggle into power in 2023. “The youths and the younger generations won’t forgive them if they avail themselves to be used by the outgoing governor who is now drowning and looking for any straw to hold on to. “Of course, we are glad that Umahi did express a little bit of his frustration and anger over his lost APC Presidential bid. He even opened up that he is yet to recover from the pains of the Presidential election defeat. It is therefore wisdom for them and indeed, all of our dear states to distance from his counsel and allow him to lick his wounds. “We encourage and challenge the Ebonyi electorates to make history by supporting and electing into office in 2023 elections not on emotional or zoning sentiments but on competence, capacity and credibility. Those who we would wish to see occupy elective offices in 2023 must be people with known antecedents and proven capacity to deliver good governance in Ebonyi State. Very good a thing that the tremendous improvements in the electoral system have made it uneasy for elections to be rigged or for brazen manipulations to take place. We encourage Ebonyians to leverage on this to elect competent and credible leaders with proven and verifiable credentials in 2023.”