Lagos – Determined to make the Velodrome at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja a Cycling hub of Africa, the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare on Thursday at the opening of the African Cycling Championship appealed for assistance from the continental body. Dare appealed to the Confederation of African Cycling, (CAC) and the Union of International Cycling,(UCI) to always look in the direction of Nigeria for developmental and training programmes as well as the provision of facilities, equipment and other materials that will make Nigeria, the Cycling hub of Africa. “We will use this opportunity to appeal to the CAC and the UCI to always look in the direction of Nigeria for their developmental and training programmes as well as the provision of facilities, equipment and other materials that will make Nigeria, the Cycling hub of Africa,” he said. He commended the President of the Cycling Federation of Nigeria, (CFN) Engineer Giandomenico Massari and his board for the tremendous investments they are making to develop the sport in Nigeria and place the country’s cyclists on the world map, the Minister said the hosting of the Championships was a testimony to some of their giant strides just as he charged Nigerian Cyclists to excel. He urged the Team Nigeria, to repeat the previous performance in the continental championship saying, “let me ask you to be good and hospitable hosts….but also remind you of 2019 when we last hosted this competition and won it. Try to do it again”. He appreciated the CAC and also the UCI for granting Nigeria the hosting rights for this Championships. “On Wednesday, I had very useful interactions with Dr Mohamed Azzam, the president of the CAC who doubles as the Vice President of the UCI as well as Mr Philip Pollard, the UCI Commissaire president and other top officials of the continental body. The discussions we had confirmed to be that indeed Cycling is gaining prominence in Nigeria and in Africa. POLL “As a Government, we will continue to do our best to create an enabling environment for cycling to grow and give support to the Nigerian, African and international cycling bodies in their efforts to develop the sport,” he stated.