…As Police Arrest Two suspects ENUGU – There was tension in MKpulogo, Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area in Enugu state following the alleged murder of a 15-year-old boy by members of the vigilante group It was learnt the murder of the boy resulted in the burning and destruction of houses and properties in the community by angry youth. Checks revealed that the boy was killed over land-related issues as the vigilante stormed his house to arrest him but he was shot as he resisted arrest. Reacting to the incident, the police spokesman of the state command DSP Daniel Ndukwe says two of the vigilantee member linked to the killing has been arrested He said “the state Commissioner of Police, CP Abuabar Lawal, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State CID to conduct a full-scale investigation into the case of the alleged shooting of one Philip Okoro (m) aged 22, by a Vigilante at Mkpulogo community in Uzo-Uwani LGA on 29/06/2022. “The victim was rushed to the hospital and later confirmed dead on 30/06/2022 at about 3 pm, by doctors on duty and his corpse deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy. “Consequently, two (2) members of the Vigilante Group directly linked to the shooting and murder of the victim have been arrested. -Advertisement- POLL “They include one Annene Idu (m), alleged to have shot the deceased, and Chijioke Ezugwu (m), the Chief Security Officer of the L.G.A. said to have led the Vigilantes to the scene of the incident to arrest hard drugs dealers. Additionally, the Pump Action used for the act has been recovered. “Meanwhile, in protest of the death of the said victim, an angry mob set ablaze the house of the mentioned team leader. However, the fire was put out by Police Operatives, who swiftly mobilized to the scene on receipt of a distress call, before the building could be burnt down” He said Normalcy has been restored in the area noting that the CP has entreated residents of the community to remain law-abiding and avoid acts capable of breaching public peace in the area”.