ABUJA – The Labour Party (LP) on Friday unveiled Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, as running mate to its presidential candidate, Peter Obi. Baba-Ahmed’s announcement was coming barely 24 hours after the Director-General, Peter Obi Campaign Organisation, Doyin Okupe, announced his withdrawal as the vice-presidential candidate of the party. Speaking at the event, Obi, who apologised for the postponement of the event from Thursday to Friday, said the unveiling signals the party and his resolve in the journey to “take back Nigeria.” “It is good to be here today after weeks and months that we have gone round, consulted and searched around and looked for somebody who fits the bill of what we are trying to do. “Today, I am proud to say I have been able to meet and secure somebody who is eminently qualified and fits the bill to be the Vice President of Nigeria. “I know people will say you are not there yet, but I can tell you, I know where we are going,” Obi said. He added, “This is our right to secure, unite and make Nigeria productive. And you can’t do that without having people who have similar visions, ideas and are prepared for the task. So, I have the honour today to present to you, God willing, Nigeria’s next Vice President in the person of Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed. Obi had on Wednesday opened up on his choice of running mate, saying he preferred a younger person as his vice-presidential candidate. -Advertisement- POLL The 46-year-old was a former lawmaker who represented Kaduna North Senatorial district. Baba-Ahmed, the founder of Baze University, Abuja, was announced as the LP vice-presidential candidate in Abuja on Friday. Okupe who announced his withdrawal via his verified Twitter handle @doyinokupe noted that his party would announce the new running mate to the presidential candidate. On why he chose Baba-Ahmed as running mate, Obi said “that he prefers a younger person who has something to offer to complement his ticket rather than recycling old hands who had been in the government before now. He added, “We’re talking to a quiet number of people and Baba-Ahmed is a capable hand and I wish he is the one. But I wish I could work with somebody who is younger. “I prefer younger people with fresh ideas who have a lot to offer rather than recycling old hands. I want a competent person and I am building a formidable team. “I want people who can look me in the eye and disagree with me during cabinet meetings. People who have their own minds and ideas. If you agree with me in three meetings then you are gone because that means you don’t have your own ideas. I want people and cabinet members who can say ‘Mr. President, you are wrong’.” On his part, Datti gave reasons for accepting the task as “undeniable unchallengeable fundamental reason for being on this ticket is to rescue Nigeria. It goes logically, I would have seen that you can only rescue that which is in trouble. Nigeria is in a great deal of trouble. I cannot afford not to be part of the movement to rescue Nigeria. “The second reason is that I believe in the greatness of Nigeria. I believe there will be peace and prosperity. I believe the Nigerian people will unite. In fact, let me deviate a bit. Having come from an educational background.”