ABUJA – The National Population Commission(NPC) has said it would begin the fieldwork of the Trial Census from 13th to 30th July, 2022 in the selected Enumeration Areas and Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the 36 States of Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT),Abuja, following the conclusion of the training of the field functionaries for the Trial Census exercise. This was contained in a statement issued by Dr. Isiaka Yahaya, Director, Public Affairs, NPC on Wednesday in Abuja. Yahaya explained that the Trial Census, also known as the “census dress rehearsal”, is one of the pre-census activities to evaluate all aspects of the census operation before the main census on a limited scale. It is a process in which all census operations are tested in a detailed and comprehensive manner to assess the level of preparedness of the Commission to conduct the 2023 Population and Housing Census. He said: “The Trial Census shall cover a total of 7681 Enumeration Areas in the 36 States and the FCT. “Six LGAs have been selected from the six selected States in the six geo-political zones of the country for full population enumeration while forty-five EAs in nine LGAs cutting across three senatorial districts were selected from each of the thirty States and the FCT for enumeration. “The Trial Census fieldwork includes, building numbering and household listing from 13th to 15th July, 2022; validation of EA frame from 16th to 18th July 2022; person’s enumeration from 19th to 25th July, 2022; and enumeration mop up from 26th to 30th July, 2022. “As part of the exercise, Enumerators are expected to visit all residential and non-residential buildings within the selected Enumeration Areas and number the buildings and enumerate members of households in the buildings.” Yahaya further explained that the information collected from Trial Census will not form the basis of the result of the 2023 Population and Housing Census. POLL While assuring the nation of its commitment and readiness toward a successful census, he solicited the support and the cooperation of State Governments, Local Government Councils and Stakeholders in the sensitisation and mobilisation of the populace in the selected LGAs for the smooth implementation of the Trial Census exercise. “For further enquiries and complaints on Trial Census, the general public should kindly contact our call centre on 0700 023 6787,” he said.