Todd Boehly has been told how much Chelsea could have to fork out in order to sign Serge Gnabry from Bayern Munich this summer. The west Londoners have been heavily linked with a move for Raphinha but, with the Leeds United talisman opting for Barcelona instead, Thomas Tuchel is eager to sign an alternative. football.london understand that the Blues had a £55million fee agreed with Jesse Marsch’s side for the 25-year-old. However, Barcelona are said to be Raphinha’s preferred destination and the Spanish giants hopeful of completing a deal. Meanwhile, football.london also understand that Chelsea are open to offloading Hakim Ziyech should they receive the right offer. It’s believed that AC Milan have tabled a €25million (£21.1m) offer for the 29-year-old, payable over two-years. With the Blues seemingly set to miss out on the Brazil international and Ziyech facing an increasingly uncertain future at Stamford Bridge, Tuchel wants to sign at least one new forward. According to The Telegraph, Gnabry has emerged as an option for the club, with the 26-year-old’s contract at Bayern set to expire in 12 months. Boehly has met with the Bavarians’ director in London to discuss the futures of both Gnabry and Robert Lewandowski, as per The Telegraph. And, it’s said that the £33.8m-rated winger ‘likes London’, handing the Blues a major boost in their efforts. He featured 34 times for the German giants in the Bundesliga last season, directly contributing towards 20 goals. The Germany international’s impressive displays have rightfully courted the interest of several top-flight European clubs, with Chelsea among those in the queue. Not too long after the January transfer window slammed shut, Tuchel first registered an interested in Gnabry amid ‘complicated’ contract talks at the Allianz Arena. Regardless of whether Boehly lands Gnabry or not, the Chelsea boss is eager to undergo a rebuild this summer with several big names set to leave. Speaking to football.london, Tuchel said: “We are rebuilding, not improving the squad. We are rebuilding. This is always challenging, but we are up for the challenge. POLL “I don’t know where we are from day one. What I can promise is that I will be here – if I can promise that – I will be here with full energy and positive energy no matter what. We will still work for Chelsea, and I refuse to think of negative scenarios. We will be competitive, on which level we will see.”