 BENIN – Edo State Command of the Nigeria Police has confirmed the release of the two Catholic Priests who were kidnapped on Saturday along the Benin Ekpoma Express Way. The two Catholic Priests are Rev. Father Peter Udo of St Patrick’s Catholic Church, Uromi in Esan North East Lo­cal Government Area and Rev. Father Philemon Oboh of St. Joseph Retreat Centre, Ugbo­ha, in Esan South East Local Government Area both in Edo State. The two Catholic priests have paid a thank you visit to the Edo State Acting governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu in his office in Benin soon after their release in the early hours of Wednesday. Edo Police Command spokesman, Chidi Nwanbuzor, while confirming the freedom of the two clergymen said they were rescued by men of the Ugboha division who were re­inforced by a team dispatched from the state command by the state Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, in the early hours of Sunday after the police team invaded the bush they had been taken into with all aggression. Nwanbuzor said the rescue of the two priests was commu­nicated to the state command by the Ugboha Divisional Po­lice Officer (DPO) who immedi­ately sent a signal to CP, adding that a detailed statement on the release would be ready soon. Meanwhile, the two Catho­lic priests, immediately after their release on Tuesday morn­ing paid a thank you visit to the Edo state Acting governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, who commended the state Commis­sioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, over his men’s gallantry in rescuing the two men of God. The Acting Governor seized the opportunity to restate the government’s commitment to strengthening its security architecture and reviewing strategies to guarantee the safety and security of resi­dents across communities in the state. -Advertisement- POLL Shaibu, while addressing journalists after an emergency State Security Council meeting held at the Government House, Benin City, on Monday follow­ing the kidnapping of the two catholic priests said, “We are working to secure our church­es and communities. We are looking beyond securing the churches alone but focusing on securing our communities and state. “There is work in progress and we have discussed a whole lot of security issues and in the coming weeks, things will sure­ly change in the state to ensure a secured environment for Edo people.”