EMMANUEL OBETA Si Quan Ong further classified affiliate marketing into three other categories based on the paying ability of the programs and the level or volume of potential clients attractable to the product or service. High paying, low volume affiliate programs. These are affiliate programs for niche products or services with high pay outs which mean that despite the high pay out per unit of item sold the potential volumes that can be sold may not be so much because the base demand or population for the products are small. Low paying, high volume affiliate programmes. These are affiliate programmes for products with low payouts but mass appeal such that the commission pay outs might be very small, but there is the potential for high volume sales of such items due to their high demand as well as the number of people that are demanding for such products or services. High paying, high volume affiliate programmes. These are affiliate programmes for products with mass appeal, which also pay high commissions. There is a mixture of high-volume sales and high pay outs and commissions. The key to success in affiliate marketing is to create great contents that will attract your audience to your website or affiliate page. POLL This is so because if people are not attracted to visit your page there is no way that they will see not to talk of clicking on your affiliate links. The key to great content is what will be beneficial to your select audience, what they want or are interested in, your level of grasp or knowledge of those topics coupled with your ability to write them in a creatively attractive manner. Great contents alone may not convert to high volume of clicks for your affiliate links. You have to find a way of linking your content to your affiliate links which naturally will draw your audience to the affiliate links. If that link or connection is not made the audience might just enjoy your contents as great materials without having a link in their minds to the affiliate products or services being sold on your page. The link however has to be not to too obvious else it will appear spammy which will also discourage your audience from the affiliate link products. There are three main objectives of all these kinds of marketing campaigns. They are usually aimed at achieving these three objectives and can thereby be classified into; Customer acquisition campaigns Marketing acquisition or customer acquisition aims to attract new visitors to its digital or physical ecosystem, website, landing pages or social networks, stores. \ Acquisition campaigns promote a product and services to a new audience and use different channels to sponsor content: search engine optimisation (SEO), social network promotion, offline or online advertising. The focus of these marketing campaigns is to reach people that have not yet heard about your business, nor are aware of the services it provides but might be actively searching or interested in a product or service within your category that will meet their needs. Conversion campaigns This usually applies to established or well-known brands that receive a lot of traffic either online to your website or to your dealer’s outlets, but does not translate into actual sales or purchase by these visitors either because they do not stay long enough on your sites to make a purchase or are distracted from making purchase commitments or because they do not find enough anchors or drivers that will make them make a purchase. Conversion marketing therefore refers to tactics that encourage customers to take specific action, which converts a person browsing your website into a purchaser of your product or service. This could mean a a triggered special offer given those who abandon their shopping carts or a tie in sales with some other products or services that they have equally searched or an offer of volume discounts etc. These actions are just more about the need to make a compelling case to those who already have a need, more about making a decision easy than about presenting the decision in the first place. Retention and trust campaigns Customer retention and repeat purchases are what makes a business profitable or even more profitable than another business. According to Bain & Co, it costs seven times more to attract new customers than it does to retain existing ones, while a 5% increase in customer retention can generate up to 125% in profits for the organisation. Ignoring retention marketing and solely focusing on customer acquisition results in customer churn, which ultimately leads to a loss in revenue and profit margins. Retention marketing, which is also referred to as lifecycle marketing or loyalty marketing, boils down to keeping customers engaged, happy, and spending which in turn increases the customer’s life time value and the overall revenue to the business. Successful retention marketing involves building two-way and engaging relationships with your customers which starts from knowing them, listening attentively to them, responding adequately to them and designing programs and offers that keeps them engaged and excited.