British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was fighting for his political survival on Tuesday after the resignation of two of his top government ministers. In near-simultaneous resignation letters, Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak and Health and Social Care Secretary Sajid Javid referenced their losses of trust in Johnson’s leadership. Sunak’s departure is especially damaging to Johnson because the prime minister plucked Sunak from relative obscurity to give him the second most powerful job in the British government. Javid previously held that position. The chancellor is Britain’s equivalent of the treasury secretary — except the chancellor has far greater influence over the government’s tax and spending decisions. Tuesday’s events follow a litany of incidents which have greatly undermined Johnson’s leadership credibility. The Prime Minister’s public image was badly damaged by revelations that he attended numerous parties at his No. 10 Downing Street office-residence even while imposing COVID-19 lockdowns. The drip-drip of new party revelations and inconsistencies in Johnson’s statements have enraged the public with a perception that private-school-educated Oxford graduates such as Johnson believe there is one rule for themselves and one rule for everyone else. But Johnson’s immediate crisis — the one that precipitated these resignations — was a letter sent on Monday by a member of the House of Lords and the former senior civil servant at the Foreign Office (UK State Department equivalent). That letter accused Downing Street of lying over claims that Johnson, while serving as Foreign Minister in 2019, had not been briefed on misconduct allegations against a former Foreign Office minister and Conservative parliamentarian Chris Pincher. Downing Street issued a new statement on Tuesday saying that Johnson had forgotten the 2019 briefing. Pincher was suspended from the Conservative Party last week after facing new allegations of sexual misconduct. Regardless, the key issue here is Johnson’s ability to command the trust of his party and the public. With the Conservative Party’s approval ratings in free fall and the Labour Party opposition rising, Conservative parliamentarians fear that Johnson has become an electoral liability. While Johnson won a recent confidence vote by Conservative parliamentarians, pressure is now growing for a rule change that would allow a near-term repeat of that vote. The perception of Johnson as a liability reflects a seismic shift. On the back of his “get Brexit done” mantra, Johnson led the Conservatives to a stunning 2019 electoral victory. But the principle of trust is particularly important to Johnson. That’s because the former mayor of London has long relied on his plain-speaking, full-speed-ahead political image to defray concerns over his eccentricity. But where, as now, Johnson has been shown untrustworthy on repeated issues, the public’s tolerance for his eccentricity has evaporated in kind. Indeed, were it not for Johnson’s robust support for Ukraine, the Prime Minister’s approval ratings would probably be substantially worse. -Advertisement- POLL Johnson is fighting for political survival. But don’t count him out just yet. At least for the moment, a large number of other top ministers have pledged their continued support. Will it be enough? As the BBC’s political editor noted on Twitter… Encounter with two cabinet ministers who are staying. Can PM stay I ask? Minister 1: Boris is the great survivor. He is Lazarus. Minister 2: But Lazarus only came back from the dead once — Nicholas Watt (@nicholaswatt) July 5, 2022