LAGOS – Odogbolu Local Government Area of Ogun State, Detola Abike Mogaji Memorial Foundation (DAMMF) and Havas Nigeria have partnered to train dozens of young people in the areas of customer relationship and financial management in the area. The participants in the wealth creation scheme will be certified after the training and work under probation for financial institutions and they will be given the opportunity to be employed by the institutions. Speaking at the event on Thursday in Odogbolu, Hon Ladejobi Shuaib, the executive chairman of the local government, commending Detola Abike Mogaji Memorial Foundation (DAMMF) and Havas Nigeria for putting the event together, adding that the initiative was a welcome addition to the capacity-building programme of the local government. Shuaib, who was represented by his deputy, Hon. Ireti Adenugba, said the initiative came at a most appropriate time, a period that required urgent and ambitious solutions to the lingering problems of unemployment and unemployability. He also reiterated his administration’s commitment to partner with the private sector to create wealth through public-private partnerships with a financial institution and a non-profit organization domiciled in the local government area in order to empower youths in the local government. Speaking at the event, the promoter of DAMMF, Mr. Olatunde Mogaji, said the aim of the wealth creation scheme was to create jobs for the teeming youth in the Odogbolu Local Government as well as address the skills gaps in the area. Also speaking at the training session, Hon Oguntade Oluwaseun, an aspirant for Odogbolu State Constituency, urged Odogbolu Local Government youths to seize the opportunity and create a means of livelihood for themselves and shun vices. Also speaking at the training programme, the director of Operation at Havas Nigeria, Mr. Dare Oyegbola, said, “it is our belief that the initiative like this will make the youths more employable in today’s work space and foster financial inclusion and entrepreneurial opportunities for young people in Odogbolu Local Government.”