It remains to be seen whether Bayern will target a direct replacement for Lewandowski having already signed Sadio Mane from Liverpool, although they have been linked with the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Harry Kane and Victor Osimhen in recent weeks. But one player who is set to arrive in Munich is RB Leipzig midfielder Konrad Laimer. The 25-year-old Austrian, who was looked at closely by Man Utd earlier in the year, always had a move to Bayern in his sights and now he is set to get his wish. Bayern have made an approach to Leipzig, who are expected to accept an offer worth around €30m for his services. Barcelona and Bayern Munich are close to finalising a deal for Robert Lewandowski, 90min understands. The two clubs have been locked in talks for weeks, but Barça are now in a position to agree terms with the German champions. Lewandowski’s agent Pini Zahavi has been working hard to get the two clubs to strike a deal, having already reached a broad agreement with Barça over what is believed to be a three-year contract. 90min understands that Zahavi had been keeping the likes of Chelsea and Manchester United updated on Lewandowski’s situation should the move to Catalonia fall through, but 90min understands both clubs have been told that he is indeed heading to Camp Nou. POLL Barcelona completed the re-signing of Ousmane Dembele and finalised the move of Raphinha from Leeds this week, and sources in Spain have confirmed to 90min that a deal for the Polish superstar is expected to be finalised over the weekend. Barça president Joan Laporta, who earlier this month praised Lewandowski for trying to force his way to Camp Nou, refused to comment on Friday at the unveiling of Raphinha. “I’ve nothing to say on Lewandowski deal. I’m not gonna comment this negotiation, we have to respect FC Bayern,” said Laporta. “I really respect Bayern and Lewa is their player.” It is expected that Barcelona will pay a fee in the region of €50m plus add-ons for Lewandowski. It remains to be seen whether Bayern will target a direct replacement for Lewandowski having already signed Sadio Mane from Liverpool, although they have been linked with the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Harry Kane and Victor Osimhen in recent weeks. But one player who is set to arrive in Munich is RB Leipzig midfielder Konrad Laimer. The 25-year-old Austrian, who was looked at closely by Man Utd earlier in the year, always had a move to Bayern in his sights and now he is set to get his wish. Bayern have made an approach to Leipzig, who are expected to accept an offer worth around €30m for his services.