LAGOS – Everybody appreciates and realises the fact that when motorists pay more for fuel, transport fare increases. This has been the case even when the increase is only marginal. In the particular case where the cost of fuel is expected to double, the increase in transport fare will be astronomical. This will in turn affect everything else – food items, school fees, house rent, just name it. Commuters in the country since the beginning of the second quarter of this year, have being having trepidation that the cost of transportation is likely to blow the roof top owing to the epileptic supply of fuel which is attributed to increase in its landing costs to the country and the ripple effects on the ex-depot price, expected to be abridged with increased subsidy payments. The value of minimum wage income will depreciate further combined with the increase in inflation. At the same time, the average household’s spending on goods and services will rise, and their saving rate will drop sharply. The fall in the saving rate will erode about half of Nigeria’s present middle-class citizens and further dampen the negative effects that higher prices would ordinarily have had on the economy in the short run. Consumer spending will be diminished greatly over the next few years, as citizens grapple with an increase in transport fare. POLL Nigeria’s poverty level, already standing at about 82 per cent, may soar, as high cost of transportation pushes the country’s disposable income to transport ratio to the worst in the world. Experts have raised concerns that the disposable income to transport ratio (income remaining after deduction of total transport costs) across cities in the country for most low income earners is approaching the worst in the world. Latest report on Nigeria’s Disposable Income to Transport Ratio by a Lagos based public transport company, indicated that over 60 per cent of medium and low income earners, on an average of N18,000 minimum wage spend over 60 percent of their income on transportation alone. Fitch International, one of the leading Rating agency, said the level of poverty (productivity index) in Nigeria has maintained a constant rise, reaching its all-time high of 82 per cent. But, the disposable income to transport ratio across the country showed that more Nigerians may be falling into poverty index soon if inherent challenges are not tackled in public transport infrastructure, Similarly, the National Bureau of Statistic (NBS), said Nigeria’s poverty index has risen from 17.1 million people in 1980 to 151 million in 2020, an indication that most Nigerians live on less than $1 in a day. Labour leaders criticised that while the current inflation halved salaries of workers, the high cost of transportation weakened the standard of living of most Nigerians. Nigeria’s consumer prices increased 27.24 per cent year-on-year in April, easing slightly from a 27.26 per cent in March, even as food and other household items remain high, without interventions by the government. Taking the lead in the fare increase is the Lagos state controlled transport service scheme, known as Bus Rapid Transport, (BRT), which added a N100 flat rate on all the routes it is operating in. Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State gave the approval, explaining it as part of measures to sustain operations. The increase, which is scheduled to commence on Wednesday, July13, 2022 was said to aim at ensuring sustainability of the BRT that had been hampered due to rising cost of inputs required for sustainable service offering and the attendant high number of buses out of operation as a result of lack of spare parts. According to Kolawole Ojelabi, Assistant Director, Corporate Communication, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, LAMATA, “The exponential increase in the pump price of diesel from N187 to N830/litre between August 2020 and June, 2022, had greatly affected optimal performance of the bus operating companies leading to the withdrawal of buses from operation and longer waiting time at bus stations. “The Governor in consenting to the fare increase also approved a proposal for a bail out for the bus operating companies in order to cushion the effect of the harsh operating environment and safeguard private partnership investment and forestall the demise of formalized bus operations in the state.” When the new rates finally commence, a bus ride from Ikorodu – TBS will cost N600 from N500, while Berger to Ajah is now N700, up from N600. Oshodi to Abule Egba will cost N450 from N350 and Abule-Egba-CMS-Obalende will attract a fare of N600. As fuel scarcity persists and many commercial transport operators resorts to buying fuel from black markets at exorbitant prices ranging between N250 to N350 per litre for PMS and N900 for diesel, commuters are now lamenting a huge increase it is having on transport fares to various locations in the state. Majority of commercial transport operators in Lagos state have blamed the recent transport fare hike issue on fuel scarcity. They revealed that many commercial bus drivers in Lagos State now depend on the “black market” to get fuel for their vehicles. And it is a known fact that petrol fuel is usually sold at exorbitant prices in black markets. As a matter of fact, most filling stations that are even still selling fuel in Lagos right now are using higher pump prices for their sales as well. So, it is almost impossible for commercial transporters not to keep increasing transport fares until the fuel scarcity crisis ends. Reports have it that transportation fare for some locations has gone up by 50 to 100 percent. Adekemi Olaiya, a nurse who resides in Ojodu Berger, told newsmen that she is now paying up to N400 to get to Ogba from Ojodu, which previously cost about N200 before the fuel scarcity crisis. Another Lagos commuter, Mr. Adefila Stephen said that he normally spends between N400 and N500 as Transport fare to go from the Ikorodu area to Ojuelegba. Surprisingly, he now spends as much as N700 to shuttle this same route in Lagos. Another commuter identified as Mr Anthony Chizor also confirmed that he now spends more on transport fare to commute in Lagos amidst the fuel scarcity crisis. Some commuters in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have decried an increase in transportation fares due to fuel scarcity, making movement in the territory difficult. The commuters told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) last week that their greatest challenge was finding commercial vehicles to their destinations, especially to their places of business or work. They said this might be because most of the taxi drivers were either on the long queues in petrol stations or were off the road due to no petrol. They therefore, called on the authorities concerned to speedily intervene to bring the situation back to normal as many Nigerians were suffering. Mr Calistus Emeka, who lives around the Mararaba axis, said he had to pay N400 from his area to Wuse area, instead of N200. Emeka said as a cleaner, working at the Secretariat, his salary was meager and he could barely afford to continue to pay the increased fare. According to him, if nothing is done soon, he may not be able to go to work in the coming days. According to Festus Ogunbiade, who resides in Agbado Ijaiye but works in Agindingbi area of Ikeja, he said: “Aside the fare hike occasioned by the lingering fuel crisis, another factor responsible for the hike is the ban of Okada on some roads in Lagos, giving rise to fewer commuting alternatives for residents who have to jostle for the few number of vehicles on the roads.” According to the Transport Fare Watch report for June 2022, intra-city transport cost increased by at least 100 per cent between January and June 2022. By extension, intra-city bus fare increased by 100 per cent. But motorcycle/ okada fare, arguably the most accessible means of transportation for poorer individuals, increased by a whopping 130 per cent! The data also revealed that the median increase in transport fare in states across the country was over 98 per cent for intra-city bus transport fare and motorcycle transport fare. The report also shows there is evidence that the high cost of urban transport is having a negative impact on the lives of the urban poor – either through restricting their access to jobs that are within feasible walking distance, by consuming an unsustainable proportion of their income, or by dramatically curtailing the number of journeys that they make. The fuel crisis actually started as early as November 2021 when the minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, announced that Nigeria will remove fuel subsidies by 2022 and replace the subsidies with a transportation grant of N5000-a-month to the poorest Nigerians. Since then, fuel retailers, whom NNPC have accused of hoarding fuel, have refused to resume normal operations. This has continued despite the suspension of the subsidy removal plan approved by president Mohammadu Buhari in January 2022.