LAGOS – A renowned socio-political activist and critic, Chief Adesunbo Onitiri has faulted the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its decision to fly a Muslim/Muslim ticket in the 2023 presidential election, stressing that having a Muslim/Muslim presidential and vice presidential candidates is most unacceptable and an affront on the sensibility of Nigerians. Onitiri said this in a press statement on Wednesday, pointing out that the action would create unprecedented chaos in Nigeria, and cautioned that Nigeria is a secular state and religion has come to play a central stage in our political structure.  He emphasised that APC shouldn’t plunge the country into religious turmoil when Christians are already being slaughtered, maimed and killed in the North.  “Never again will Nigerians tolerate afflictions we are presently going through in this country under the Buhari/Osinbajo maladministration, resulting in daily killings, maiming and kidnapping of Christians all over the country.  “We are already witnessing a failed state where Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP), Boko Haram, Fulani herdsmen and terrorists massacre innocent, defenceless Christians and other innocent citizens for free,” Onitiri said. He added, “None of them were arrested or prosecuted and our military are turning the other face when these atrocities are being committed.”  The social critic pointed out that Nigerians cannot forget Kashim Shettima’s administration’s lapse when he was governor of Borno state, resulting in the adoption of the Chibok girls who up now, a large chunk of them are still missing. He called on Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and all Christian members to rise and vote massively against the Muslim/Muslim ticket. “Christians who vote for this ticket would be signing their death warrants, those of their children and unborn generations of Nigerians. Onitiri also urged all patriotic Nigerians to speak up against the dastardly poisonous concoction being prepared for the elimination of innocent citizens and Christians”.  He also urged Nigerians to vote out the APC government overwhelmingly, alleging that it has not lived up to expectations in fighting corruption, insecurity and boosting the country’s economy, adding Nigeria’s problem is leadership.  Politicians should learn to make sacrifices and be sensitive to the feelings and aspirations of the people. We are in election year and our politicians should learn to balance our sensibilities,” he added. the