Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese, as well as a chieftain of Civil Consciousness Initiative (CCI). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the surge in PVC demand and the efforts by Christians to be part of the current move for political leadership, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: You were at the recent inauguration of the Directorate of Politics and Governance of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN-DPG) inaugurated its Coordinators in Lagos. How do you see the establishment of the DPG by the organisation? Christian groups have always shown great interest in politics and governance. But, when it comes to actual voter mobilisation, they have always been very timid. However, from what I saw at the inauguration and what has been going on in recent times, the Church will likely, this time around, not only mobilise its members, but also give them specific instructions on who to vote for. They may be up for serious business this time around for the Christian community. That is what the DPG represents. What do you think Christians will benefit from the emergence of the DPG, especially as it concerns participation in the politics of the nation? It is not just about supporting political interests, but our ability to negotiate for what will benefit the Christian community. We should be able to negotiate with the political party or candidate that that is what we want as regards governance and equally negotiate participation in that government. Would you say you were impressed by what happened at the inauguration of the units and the leaders? Very much impressed. The only way anybody wants to catch a monkey is to behave like a monkey. This time around, we are politically wiser. The setup of DPG follows the normal political structure that is the State, Senatorial Districts, the Local Government/LCDA and Wards. If we are organised to that level, we will be able to mobilise even to the grassroots. That is what the DPG did, bringing up people that are not faceless, but with names that are identifiable to the lowest level. That is the way to start. What was the situation among Christians politically before the establishment of the DPG? -Advertisement- POLL The situation has always been that we asked people to pray and to go out and vote. They voted their choice without much enlightenment as to who to vote for. There had always been an attitude of being lukewarm by the church leadership on participation generally. Hopefully, all these have changed. Some church leaders who claim to be apolitical are said not to be cooperating in this new move. How do you see the development? If there is a movement, especially socially and politically, if you do not move with the tide, the tide will move you. There is a movement this time. All church leaders should key in or they may lose their flocks. How do you see the current upsurge in the demand for the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs)? Do you think it will really destroy the existing voter apathy in the country? Definitely, if people are registering to vote the way they are doing now, I will impact the voter turn-out. The way there is an upsurge in voter registration, so it will reflect on the real voting. They will not get the cards and put them in their wardrobes, but for voting. Some people say that the upsurge in voter registration is due to social media hype caused by Peter Obi’s emergence as Labour Party candidate. Do you also think so? The upsurge in voter registration has nothing to do with the emergence of Peter Obi as LP candidate, but people are looking at their economic and social situation and feel that there is a need for them to better their lives and begin to associate it with their PVCs. The race of who to vote for and who not to vote for will depend on happenings between now and the next six months. What is your take on the current controversy over the Muslim-Muslim and Christian-Christian presidential tickets? I refrain personally to be drawn into the argument of Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian tickets. Let the parties present their candidates, let us decide who to vote for. If you bring Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian candidates, we will determine whether to vote for you or not. We do not decide for the candidates. Personally, I do not even see where the Bible told me to vote for a Jew or Gentile. The Bible is very apt that what is important in government is righteousness. So, I may choose not to vote for Christian by name, but as a character who has chosen to be righteous, the definition of righteousness is not based on the fact that you attend a church or have a Christian name. There are so many people who are Christians who attend church and have Christian names, but do nothing to help the Christendom. Buhari’s regime is a Muslim-Muslim ticket. But how has it helped Christendom? How do you see the challenge of Bola Tinubu, Peter Obi and a few other presidential candidates in picking their running mates? The entire race about picking the vice presidential candidates is just to appeal to voters. Voters should be weary that the Vice President is just a spare part. The president of Nigeria is very strong. The vice president is a silent partner in government. When Jonathan was the president he had a vice president. A lot of people now may not remember who he is and what his name, his voice is or how he speaks. The candidates are just looking for who they will use to get votes. When Ekwueme was the vice president, what was his contribution to the Igbo people? Obasanjo gave Atiku an opportunity to perform. But, he used it to better his lot. Whatever the vice president does is at the advantage of the president. The candidates only want to get political footing. There has been a lot of noise about Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s documentation. What is your take on that? It is all politics; a storm in a tea cup. Some of these are old stories. All these allegations against Tinubu have been in existence for a long time. They will all fizzle out. They did affect him as a governor or senator. He was first employed as Auditor with Mobil, an international oil company. They would not have employed him at Mobil without certificates. Would you say that vote buying will pose a major challenge in the 2023 general elections? As long as people are hungry, as long as poverty remains in the land, people will continue to sell their votes. The system in Nigeria has never prosecuted anyone for vote buying. We saw it in Ekiti. We will still see it in Osun. It is a reflection of whatever will happen in the 2023 general elections. How do you see the resignation of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Tanko Mohammed on health grounds after other Justices of the Supreme Court had petitioned against him, making some serious allegations? Like everything in Nigeria, we may never know the truth about the resignation of the CJN. We have only been fed with allegations and counter allegations and the Presidency will never say anything to the contrary. Every other thing is unverified allegations and stories. The national award given to him is not a reward, but normal. Every CJN that retires is given the award. His resignation is a form of retirement. Even Justice Onnoghen, who retired in controversial circumstances, got the award. The honour goes with the position or office and is not a case of being a reward. Nigerian women are complaining that they were shortchanged by the major political parties during the primaries. They insinuate that the only one who was a presidential candidate in APC withdrew at the last moment under mysterious circumstances. What is your take on that? I don’t know who prevented the women or who cheated them out of positions. In all the political parties, women were given preferential treatment. Some parties gave them forms at 50 percent discount, while some gave them forms free of charge. But, the Nigerian women chose to play the role of supporters instead of leaders. It is not a general case. In Adamawa, the governorship candidate of APC is a woman. She is a serving senator. Her chances are very bright. She may become the first elected female governor, but one who steps into position because someone is impeached. Women should liberate themselves from mental slavery that they cannot it. If we look at the present set up, can we point at a woman who stands out like Mrs Funmilayo Ransom-Kuti or Wabba Swaba, who people can rally around? Can you point at a woman today who can stand shoulder to shoulder with Atiku or Tinubu? Women should relax and produce someone who we can rally round. How serious would you say the Lagos4Lagos Movement as Lagosians inch towards the 2023 elections? The Lagos4agos Movement is strong. The Movement will equally gather momentum as days go by. The only thing is that because of the focus on the presidential election, you may not know what is going on about the governorship. But, as the race goes on, the Movement will gather greater momentum. The 2023 election is a marathon race. In a marathon race, all a good runner does is to run along with the pack in the front, not necessarily taking the lead. But, in the last three laps, the game changes. Let us see what will happen in three months’ time.