ABUJA  – The last may not have been heard on the derogatory remarks made by the Vice Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Kashim Shettima, on the capacity of the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, to preside over the affairs of Nigeria, as a coalition of youths from the North has removed him as their patron. While condemning Shettima’s comment, considered by manyasprovocative, theyouths, under the auspices of Coalition of Arewa Youths for Peace and National Development (COAYPANU), have called on Nigerians torejectpoliticiansthatpromote bigotry,andothertendenciesthat threaten peace and unity. Recall that Shettima had, during an interview on Arise TV last weekend, questioned the capacity and competence of the former Governor of Anambra State, to lead the country as president. In a derogatory tone, ShettimahadsaidthattheLPflag-bearer could best be a “President in Igboland”, thereby attracting criticisms from thousands of the latter’s supporters, who identify themselves as “Obi-dients” amongotherwell-meaning Nigerians. “The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi has no political base and structuretowinthenextelection in 2023. As far as I am concerned, he’spoliticallystructureless with littleornoexperiencetoleadthis country. “Nigeria requires a technocrat and a sound administrator who will continue from where PresidentMuhammaduBuhari stopped, not someone who will cometotakeusbacktotheeraof PDP. Nigerians don’t want that. “Presidential position is not for the unprepared neither is it an all comers’ affair. Peter Obi can only become a President in IgbolandbutdefinitelynotinNigeria. Nigeria is too big for him to handle. “He has no leadership ideology nor experiences like President Muhammadu and our incoming President in the person of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu”, theformerBornoGovernor had said. POLL But the Arewa youths, in a statement by their National President, Alhaji Mohammed Gwadabe, saidShettima’sattack on Obi smacked off perceived bigotry, hence their decision to remove him as patron with immediate effect.