Chelsea are ‘in talks’ to sign Paris Saint-Germain star Presnel Kimpembe as Todd Boehly looks to accelerate the Blues’ transfer business this summer. Chelsea confirmed their first summer signing with the arrival of Manchester City forward Raheem Sterling with the England international having joined up with his new teammates in Los Angeles. Sterling became the first signing under Boehly’s ownership as the American owner looks to back Thomas Tuchel significantly this summer. Kalidou Koulibaly looks set to become Chelsea’s second summer signing, with the club also targeting moves for Nathan Ake and Presnel Kimpembe. football.london understands that an agreement is close between Chelsea and Napoli in relation to a £34m deal that will see the Senegalese international sign a lucrative long-term contract in west London. The Athletic reported on Wednesday night that the west Londoners are in talks with PSG for the signing of Kimpembe. The report suggests that the French outfit are open to selling the 26-year-old should the right offer be submitted. The Blues are keen to strengthen their defensive options ahead of the 2022/23 season following the departures of Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen. A left-sided centre-back is seen as a priority for Thomas Tuchel’s side with Kimpembe fitting that profile, as well as Manchester City’s Nathan Ake who is also a target for Chelsea this summer. football.london understands that the Blues are in advanced talks with a fee and personal terms being discussed for the Dutch defender. football.london also understands City want to secure a fee in the region of £50million and would not sanction a deal for Ake until they have a replacement signing lined up. Kimpembe has become a regular for the Ligue 1 champions making over 150 appearances for the club since breaking into the first team. Chelsea have moved quickly to secure a deal for Koulibaly after top target Matthijs de Ligt looks likely to join Bayern Munich instead this summer, and now the Blues are pursuing a deal to add more quality to their defensive ranks. Should Kimpembe arrive at Stamford Bridge this summer, highly-rated talent Levi Colwill will likely leave on-loan for the 2022/23 campaign. football.london understands that Colwill is attracting plenty of interest from Premier League clubs this summer and Tuchel will make a decision on his future during pre-season.