PORT HARCOURT – Sixteen human rights groups cut across the Niger Delta oil-producing region have called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the newly appointed Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs Ministry, Obong Umana Okon Umana to appoint men and women of integrity to manage sensitive departments of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. The groups noted that the call was necessary to safeguard the new minister from committing the same mistake of allowing political surrogates to infiltrate the Commission and turn it into a cash cow for the forthcoming general elections in 2023. Under the aegis of Niger Delta Coalition Against Violence, NDCAV, the rights groups in a statement signed by its convener in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital on Monday, Comrade Lekia Christian called on the new Minister to go beyond rhetoric and appoint core technocrats to manage the affairs of the interventionist agency to redeem the region from its present state of poverty and infrastructural decay. “Rising from decades of neglect, injustice and endless agitations emanating from a perceived conspiracy between oil multinationals and the federal government of Nigeria, the Niger Delta region is in dire need of fresh air,” he said. “The situation was almost becoming hopeless until the federal government came up with its intervention initiative, first as OMPADEC (Oil Mineral Producing Areas Development Commission) and later NDDC. “Since its inception, NDDC had operated under different managements, with very little or nothing to show in terms of achieving its essence. Criticism after criticism without putting square peg in square holes has left our dear region in tears.” The rights activist however noted that, with Obong Umana’s recent appointment as Hon Minister of Niger Delta, fresh hope beams in the region.  “Having served prudently as Secretary to State Government in Akwa Ibom and recently as Managing Director of oil and gas free zone, ONNE without any known integrity crisis, we call on you to rise to the need of the moment by appointing incorruptible managers and directors in to the board and management team of the NDDC, to enable the commission deliver on its core mandate”. He enjoined the Minister to bring back such financial brains like the former Executive Director, Finance and Administration, EDFA, of the Commission, Chief Mene Derek whose brief tenure in the agency was built on prudence and accountability. POLL “We noticed that during the time of Mene Derek, there was a rising hope of frugal management of scarce resources and contractors were diligently paid their money without the usual 10% kickback. On this note, we suggest that such men of integrity and impeccable character should be re-drafted into the Commission. “It is important to note that we are not here canvassing to favor anybody. We are dropping Mene’s name because we all witnessed the dexterity at which he managed the Commission under the former Acting MD, Obong Nsima Ekere”, the groups suggested.