ABUJA – The indispensability of collaboration among government agencies in order to realize the aims and objectives of Presidential Executive Order 5 has been trumpeted by the Director General /Chief Executive, National Metallurgical Development Centre (NMDC) Jos, Engr Prof Linus Asuquo. The NMDC Boss who was represented by the Director, Research Development and Consultancy Services, Dr (Mrs) Dorcas Joseph emphasised on this Mantra while playing host to the Chief of Air Staff, Nigeria Air Force , Air Marshall I O Amao who was equally represented by the Director , Research and Development ,Air Vice Marshall Nnaemeka Ilo at NMDC Head quarters, Jos recently. The DG /CE recalled that on 5th February 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law Executive Order 5 which is primarily aimed at Planning and Execution of Projects , Promotion of Nigerian Content in Contract abd Science Engineering Technology . Prof Asuquo in a statement made available to newsmen by Sunny Eweama, Head (Press and Public Relations) NMDC, re -echoed the need for Agencies to synergize in order to achieve the objective of Executive Order 5 which is capable of moving Nigeria from a consuming nation to a more productive and industrialized nation. In his words ‘We all know how China transformed itself from a third world country to first world country through domestication of its local content legislation ‘ He went further to say that with deliberate and conscientious collaborations among government agencies through the implementation of Executive Order 5, Nigeria will astronomically shift from a crawling third world economy to a competitive and enviable global economy. Dr Joseph while leading the Team on facility tour at the Centre informed the Guest that NMDC as a Research and Development Centre has all it takes to industralize the country if properly funded . According to her, NMDC under the leadership of Engr Prof Linus Asuquo has despite minimal funding has been transformed from a moribund stage to a more lively and attractive Research and Development Centre especially in the areas of infrastructural development , procurement of R and D equipment and collaborations with relevant Agencies . In his response , Air Vice Marshall Nnaemeka Ilo who represented the Chief of Air Staff said that the Air Force Boss sent him to lead a team to NMDC on a fact finding mission after reading so much about Research and Developmental strides taking place in NMDC, Jos. -Advertisement- POLL Air Vice Marshall Ilo said that with the R and D equipment and expertise he saw at the Centre , he had no option to recommend the Centre for partnership with NAF. As a way of giving the background for the need to partner with relevant civil establishment , Air Vice Marshall Ilo said that Nigerian Air Force was established on 18th April ,1964 following the passage by the National Assembly of the 1964 Air Force Act which stated that the Force be saddled with the task of defendibg the country marjorly through the air operations. He pointed out that the Chief of Air Staff is so passionate of ensuring that the Force explore local materials and expertise through collaboration other organ of the Armed Forces and civil establishments for the building, maintenance of Aircraft and manufacturing of defense equipment. He therefore, tasked the Management of NMDC to get ready for the process of signing M O U, while he submit his report and sought approval from his Boss. The Deputy Director R&D, Headquarters, Nigerian Air Force ,Wing Commander Abdulahi Hussaini while lending his voice said that Research and Development in Nigerian Air Force plays a pivotal role in adding value to the overall realization of the mandate of the Force. Commander Hussaini pointed out that R&D in NAF is poised to venture into the production of Rockets and Weapons locally hence the need to partner with organization like NMDC. He suggested that with proper understanding between the Chief of Air Staff and DG/CE, NMDC, Air Force Research Centre, Kaduna and NMDC, Jos, Nigeria will soon be recorded among the committee industrialized states thereby reducing humongous amount of money spent on the importation of materials and expertise which can be sourced for locally.