JOS – The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations in Plateau State has praised Governor Simon Bako Lalong for his untiring commitment to restoring peace to the State and adopting a transparency, accountability and open Governance approach in discharging his mandate to the people. The group stated this during a visit to the Governor at the Government House Rayfield Jos , Chairman of the CSOs in Plateau State Mr. Gad Peter Shamaki in his address, said they were delighted that Plateau State has continued to witness incremental peace and stability since Lalong came into office because of his determination to unite the people and address issues that ignite insecurity and crises. He cited the creation of the Plateau State Peace Building Agency, the signing of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act, and the adoption of the Open Government Partnership Initiative among others as some of the laudable achievements of the Governor that have turned around the fortunes of the State nationally and internationally. Shamaki also said the Governor has carried along the CSOs in his administration by listening to their advice and also partnering in various programmes and projects of the State. POLL He assured the Governor of the commitment of the CSOs in Plateau State to engage, collaborate and support the Government as it continues to serve the people. Also contributing, Prof. Para Mallam, Steve Aluko, and Jessica Venkat representing various CSOs thanked the Governor for always listening to their advice and also implementing some of their recommendations. They also raised concerns about politics where they urged him to use his office as Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum to advocate for politics of inclusion and proper representation of minority groups in the North Central and other parts of the country. In his response, Governor Lalong thanked the CSOs for their cooperation and collaboration in the course of his service to the people of Plateau State. Lalong said he has benefitted a lot from the honest criticisms, encouragement and genuine efforts of the civil society who have also played their part in carrying out programmes and projects that directly affect the lives of the people. He attributed the passage of some of the laws such as VAAP, Child Rights Act, and Disability Rights Act among others to the persistence and technical support of the CSOs who are passionate about the improvement of the lives of the people. He assured them that his Government will continue to do its best in delivering on its promises to the electorate as well as ensuring that Plateau State continues to be the home of peace and tourism. On the concerns raised about political representation and inclusivity, he said he will continue to canvass for politics of inclusion which he used in Plateau State to give people a sense of belonging and garner greater participation. He advised the CSOs to encourage all eligible citizens to go out and obtain their PVCs which will give them the opportunity to ventilate their grievances in the ballot box and ensure that those who are elected will serve their interests.