“I am disappointed with the intelligence system. How can terrorists organise, have weapons, attack a security installation and get away with it? I am expecting a comprehensive report on this shocking incident.” (President Buhari, at Kuje Prison, Abuja, July 5, 2022). Man proposes; God disposes. I planned a different article for today, titled EMILOKAN BROUGHT US BUHARI AND ANARCHY – a comprehensive catalogue of all terrorist activities for the month of June. But my colleague, Nnamdi Ojiego, had done a better job by publishing a more comprehensive report from May 1, 2022, in SUNDAY VANGUARD of July 10, 2022, on page 24. I challenge anyone who is not a candidate for a mental hospital to read Ojiego’s article without feeling that anarchy is definitely here. There was no single day in June 2022 when killings, kidnapping and mob violence by hoodlums and Fulani herdsmen were not reported. Katsina, Buhari’s state, was among the worst four. If you still have any doubt that the All Progressives Congress, APC, and President Buhari have brought us into pure anarchy, then the two attacks occurring on the same day should get your brain working – if you have any. The article itself could have been titled SRI LANKA DOWN; WILL NIGERIA FOLLOW? And, it would still have been appropriate. The Presidential Palace in Colombo was invaded by protesters; and the President, a former hero, was rescued just in time. He resigned while on board a Navy battle ship. He was not waiting for any comprehensive intelligence report to do the right thing. Recently, the Minister in charge of Prisons in India resigned when a jail break occurred and dozens of prisoners escaped. The Minister would be asked to file his report later; but, first he resigned honourably after failing his country and endangering peoples’ lives. Neither Aregbesola, nor the Controller of Prisons, have exhibited enough shame and decency to bow out honourably. And, Buhari is not presidential enough to kick them out. Anarchy in Nigeria starts from Aso Rock, passes through the incompetent officials appointed by Buhari, and ends in the attacks on the Presidential convoy in Katsina State and Kuje Prison. Is There A Nigerian President And Government? “An effective President must meet two indispensable requirements…the first …is to point the Republic in one or another direction. This can be done only if the man possesses or is possessed of a vision…” Arthur Schleisinger, Jr, 1917- 2007, VANGUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS, VBQ p 199. Schleisinger Jr, a Harvard University Professor, was part of the President Kennedy, 1917-1963, administration who wrote several history books on American presidents. He can be regarded as an authority on the leadership qualities of presidents – and presidential candidates as well. He has provided us with criteria for judging our presidents – past, present and future. POLL Certainly, we have somebody in Aso Rock, who now gallivants all over the globe – while the country is on the brink of utter chaos. But, is he presidential? Can anybody tell us what his vision is in words that are neither comical nor mindless? He is in his final of eight years in office. In what discernible direction has he been leading Nigeria, other than steadily towards catastrophe? He leads what is called a government. Can any top member of that administration (not Lai Mohammed please!!!) summarise in a few words in which direction Buhari has been leading Nigeria since 2015? And, are we where we are supposed to be right now? What will be the demonstrable lasting Buhari legacy on which Nigeria can build for the future? Since presidential government is an institution headed by one man, then it is perhaps vital to find out what governments are set up to do. Since it is not my intention to throw my entire library at the reader, let me just offer a few insights from former presidents and philosophers. They will help us to decide whether we have a President in Aso Rock or a government in Abuja right now. The Role Of Government “The ultimate aim of government is not to rule, or restrain, by fear; nor to exact obedience, but contrariwise, to free every man from fear, that they may live in peace and security….” – Baruch de Spinoza, 1632-1677. “Government is instituted no less for protection of property, than of the persons of individuals.” – James Madison, 1751- 1836, in Federalist Papers. “The best frame of government is that which is most likely to prevent the greatest sum of evil.” – James Monroe, 1758-1831. “I am for those means which give the greatest good to the greatest number.” – Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1865. Ask yourself; ask your friends and neighbours; but don’t ask Lai Mohammed, Shehu Garba or Femi Adesina these questions about Nigeria today under Buhari. Are you not living in fear, without peace and security? Until four years ago, I would occasionally travel by road, at night, from Lagos to Abuja – if I was staying for more than two days; or going from there to other parts of the North. Now, I will not travel in day time by road from Lagos to Auchi. Are you in the same boat with me? A man is known by the company he keeps.” Candidate Bola Tinubu claimed, and I believe him, that he recruited Buhari for the Presidency. Given the mess that Buhari has created in Nigeria, are we supposed to say “Thank you” to Emilokan for all the atrocities unfolding? Or, is he going to distance himself from Buhari? Something must give way Is anybody protected now, other than those in Aso Rock? Are farmers’ properties protected from Fulani herdsmen — whose Life Patron is Buhari? Are our kids in Northern schools protected from abductors, bandits and jihadist mobs? Are Christian clerics protected anywhere in Nigeria under Buhari today? Without a war declared, we have experienced the greatest sum of evil in our history in 2022 under Buhari. Is it not evil that Nigeria, without a war declared had more innocent individuals killed in May and June 2022 than those killed in the Ukraine war during the same period? With nearly 100 million Nigerians living in poverty; close to 50 million facing starvation; inflation at 17.7% per annum; exchange rate at N615/$1; constant national power grid collapse; fuel scarcity and no water supply, can you honestly proclaim that the Buhari government is giving the greatest good to the greatest number? Who exactly are the people for who this government is working? Aso Rock inmates and their families and associates? While the greatest number of Nigerians languish in hopelessness, the President is not sharing in the pains his government has created. He has increased the tempo of foreign travels – like Obasanjo and Jonathan before him. He is raking in the dollars! He was off, after visiting the site of one of his greatest failures – the Kuje Prison. It has obviously not occurred to Buhari and his incompetent security officials that the attackers left a message for them. KUJE WAS REHEARSAL FOR ASSAULT ON THE ROCK. “Do you not know, my son, with how little wisdom the world is governed?” – Count Axel Oxenstterna, 1583-1654, VBQ p 275. Do Nigerians know with how little intelligence our country is governed under Buhari? While the man is still waiting for the “comprehensive report” – which will consist of buck passing and blame game by the top officers – he has failed to grasp the message the attackers left at Kuje. He wondered aloud how so many armed men could roam around Abuja, unchallenged, at night. He did not ask the follow-up question. How, were they able to get over 400 prisoners in prison uniform out with them? Obviously, civilian clothes were available, sandals, etc. There were also guns and vehicles for those sprung loose. There is almost a battalion of armed men still hiding in various places in and around Abuja. What other target could be of interest to those who attacked the Presidential convoy in Dutsinma and Kuje on the same day? I urge the President to pay close attention to how the government of Sri Lanka fell; Lebanon is shaking and Argentina is wobbling.The Rock might be the next target and Kuje was just a rehearsal. As regular VANGUARD readers are well aware, on important national matters, my instincts seldom fail. Buhari and the nation are in mortal danger. I just hope somebody close to him will warn the President. I wish him well. Emilokan Brought Us Buhari And Disaster “A man is known by the company he keeps.” Candidate Bola Tinubu claimed, and I believe him, that he recruited Buhari for the Presidency. Given the mess that Buhari has created in Nigeria, are we supposed to say “Thank you” to Emilokan for all the atrocities unfolding? Or, is he going to distance himself from Buhari? Something must give way. I will never vote for the party which brought Buhari – unless they disclaim him. 