The Yiaga Africa, one of the most prominent elections observers group in the country, has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the quick arrival of its officials and voting materials at the polling units in the ongoing gubernatorial election in Osun State. In its midday report jointly e-signed by Hussain Abdu, Chairman, and Samson Itodo, Executive Director of the group, Yiaga stated that having “deployed 500 carefully trained stationary observers and 32 mobile observers to all the 30 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Osun State to observe the accreditation and voting process as well as present its assessment on the general conduct of the election and credibility of polling unit level results, The group said, “Consistent with our observation in the Ekiti Election, Yiaga Africa notes the significant improvement in logistics management for the Osun 2022 governorship election. “The personnel and essential materials such as the Voter Register, BVAS, voting cubicles and ballot box were deployed early in a majority of the polling units. “Yiaga Africa also observed the presence of sensitive materials for persons with disability in some polling units and improved set-up of polling units to enable access for persons with a physical disability. “As noted in Yiaga Africa’s pre-election statement, the imbalance in voter distribution to polling units has grave implications for voter participation and election day administration. “Yiaga Africa’s analysis of the PU distribution for Osun shows some polling units have registered voters above 750 thresholds of registered voters per polling unit. “The redistribution of voters to polling is a priority issue that INEC must address to avert logistical hiccups and voter disenfranchisement. POLL “Yiaga Africa commends INEC for fulfilling its promise to provide the disaggregated number of PVCs collected by polling units.” The group disclosed that the “preliminary statement is based on verified reports from 242 of 250 sampled polling units. The statement provides data on the commencement of polls, availability of election materials and critical incidents that may impact the quality of the election.” Yiaga, therefore, assured that “At the close of polls, 30 WTV result collation observers will be present in the 30 LGA Result collation centres to observe the results collation process.”