The Lagos State Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Samuel Egube, has urged Public Servants across the State to be good ambassadors and live exemplary lives while upholding the leadership qualities of Lagos as the Centre of Excellence. Egube spoke at a lecture with the theme: “Building Back Better from COVID-19: Enhancing Innovative Partnerships To Meet SDGs – The Lagos State Government Model”, organised as part of activities marking the Y2022 Public Service Week Celebration in Adeyemi-Bero Auditorium Alausa-Ikeja. Egube maintained that the topic was designed to prepare workers for the enormous task of building back better from the damage of the pandemic while keeping the Y2030 deadline for implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in focus. The Commissioner emphasised that despite the challenges posed by COVID-19, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration ensured that the welfare of the workforce remained a top priority, imploring Civil Servants to remain resolute on building back better and providing better service delivery to the citizenry. Earlier in his welcome address, the Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, stated that the two-in-one event, a Public Lecture and Alausa Got Talent (Series IV), was initiated to balance the work and play rule, as well as to encourage Public Servants to showcase their talents. While commending the officers selected for the Outstanding Public Servants for the Year 2022 in both senior and junior categories, Muri-Okunola reiterated Governor Sanwo-Olu’s commitment to the priority of staff welfare since assuming office, describing it as a recognition of their significant contributions to the numerous achievements of the Lagos State Government. He appreciated all Lagos Public Servants for their unrelenting efforts in ensuring that their duties are performed diligently for enhanced service delivery to the heterogeneous public in the State, enjoining them not to rest on their oars in being the mouthpiece of the present administration. The highlight of the event was the display of artistic talents by some of the participants in different categories including Choreography Dance (MDAs Category), Impromptu Speech, Stand-up Comedy, Gele Tying/Make-over Competition (Male Only), Dancing Competition, African Fashion Parade (Female Only), Mimicking of any Personality and Eating Competition.