***As UBEC Team Storm Kebbi For National Personnel Audit BIRNIN KEBBI – The Executive Chairman of Kebbi State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Professor Suleiman Khalid has disclosed that over 850,000 pupils are in both Primary and Junior Secondary schools in the state. Khalid stated this while speaking at the stakeholders meeting on the conduct of Kebbi state national Personnel Audit with Universal Basic Education Commission(UBEC) team from Abuja, in Birnin Kebbi. He said that: “Our aims especially on the data of our staff, teaching and non teaching, pupils enrollment is aggravating by gender, age, class, school, town, LGAs, both Primary and JSS, public and private schools. At present, a total of 857,185 pupils are currently enroll in basic institutions in the state. Out of these,65% are in public, that is 534,584 and 35% of them are in private schools and that is 302,601 pupils. “If you look at them, it is more than one third of them are taken by these private schools. These pupils are enrolled in 2,320 private primary schools and 426 via private and public secondary schools. In addition, we have a total of 5,343 non-formal learning centers enrolling 350,000 learners, they were thought by 3,912 facilitators. I am referring to learners in LGEAs under the BESDA programmes and the15,900 facilitators”’ he said. Khalid added that, all the update information needed on the level of the completion of the projects done, or the ongoing by the SUBEB in the state, are currently on their website, stressed that, the Private schools which have been a good partner in providing quality education in the state with enrollment of 35 percentage of pupils, have employed over 4,141 personnel in the state. He added that, the motive behind the national personnel auditing, was to provide an answers to series of questions on how to move the education sector forward in the state and Nigeria in areas of teaching, learning environment as well as enrollment of girls child. POLL According to him, “What we are doing in Kebbi state is to provide quality assurance to these schools and also to the learning environment. Are there enough classrooms? Are they in good conditions and how many of them are in dilapidation situation? And these have to do with all the facilities in the schools and the toilet facilities which could be a determined factor for attending the schools especially for a girl child.