TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI Senator Iyorchia Ayu, national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost his first political battle as the party’s helmsman in the June 18 2022 governorship election in Ekiti state. When many would have expected him to focus his attention on securing victory for the party in the Osun governorship election, he is currently fighting to retain his seat as certain principalities in the party are bent on kicking him out. For a party that has a culture of disgracing its national chairmen out of office, according to former Niger state governor, Babangida Aliyu, it remains to be seen if Ayu who was elected as PDP national chairman will survive the current scare. However, some leaders of the party are making moves to thwart plans by some aggrieved members of the party to remove him from office ahead of the 2023 general elections. Daily Independent gathered from credible sources in the party that the plot to remove Ayu is being spearheaded by Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike while Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto who is the chairman of the PDP Governors Forum. There has been a sharp division among the governors following the rejection of Wike as running mate to the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who settled for Delta State governor Sen Ifeanyi Okowa despite Wike’s emergence as the candidate of a 17-member advisory committee set up by the party to search for vice-presidential candidate. Despite denial by the party leadership that all is well within its fold, the crisis became manifest last when only two out of the 13 governors of the party were present at the inauguration of the party’s campaign council for Osun State governorship election. Also, last week the party leadership issued a statement where it dismissed the purported suspension of Senator Ayu as its national chairman over allegations of financial misappropriation. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in a statement, said reports that Ayu had been suspended as national chairman was the handiwork of mischievous persons out to destabilise the party. -Advertisement- POLL “Such report is completely false and a product of the imagination of mischief-makers with the intent to destabilize our Party, create an impression of crisis within our ranks, and mislead the unsuspecting members of the public,” the statement read in part. “It is clear that the false report is the handiwork of vicious anti-people forces who are agitated by the stability, unity, and soaring popularity of our Party under the cohesive Sen. Dr. Ayu-led National Working Committee as well as the intimidating statures of our Presidential and Vice Presidential Candidates, His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar and His Excellency, Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa respectively.” However, speaking with our correspondent yesterday, a chieftain of the party said that the threat to kick out Ayu from office is real as some aggrieved party members are asking him to vacate office since the national chairman and the party’s presidential candidate cannot come from the same region. He said others are also accusing Ayu of financial misappropriation and they claimed to have evidence to back up their claim. Speaking further, he said the same pattern adopted by some party members led by Wike in removing the former national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus is being adopted again When asked what was Ayu’s crime, he said as a long standing associate of Atiku, Wike and his loyalists believed that he has a hand in the emergence of Okowa as the running mate. Speaking further, he said Wike’s loyalists believed that Ayu has demonstrated partisanship when during a visit to Tambuwal in Sokoto, he (Ayu) described him as the hero of the PDP convention for stepping down for Atiku. He however said some leaders of the party led by Tambuwal are backing Ayu and have insisted that he will only vacate office if Atiku wins the presidential election. “The plot to remove the national chairman is real. He has been secretly meeting with some prominent personalities to avert it. Also, just like the governors are divided, the National Working Committee of the party are also divided as those sympathetic to Wike are unhappy with Ayu and they want him out”. “The same pattern they use in removing Secondus from office is also being adopted. Having realised that he has refused to resign after Atiku emerged, they will accuse him of misappropriation while those against him in the NWC will pass a vote of no confidence on him. If they are in the majority and they get the support of most of the governors, I don’t see how he will survive it”. “However, those plotting his removal will have a hard time because unlike in Secondus case when the governors were on the same page, they are not united this time around as some of the governors and party leaders have insisted that Ayu will lead the party to the 2023 general elections”. On his part, the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar insisted that there is no division in the party. In a message to his supporters, Atiku who is facing a running battle with some PDP governors and stakeholders over his choice of running mate said he will do all within his power to bring everyone together under the same umbrella. He said ” One of the characteristic attributes of democracy that I admire a lot is that it is a system with an intrinsic asset of crisis management”. “It becomes even interesting that perhaps the most noteworthy outcome of a democratic process is the greater possibility of conflict generation”. “So, a remarkable lesson that I have learned in politics is that in some instances, conflicts are healthy realities”. “I know, for instance, that when conflicts arise out of genuine concerns about having an inclusive political process, it signposts the viability of that process and, more importantly, the eagerness of stakeholders to be active participants in the success of such process”. “As leaders and stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party, the simmering agitations in our party are a reflection of our credential as a democratic party”. “Whatever our agitations are, I believe it is borne out of collective concern for the growth of our party and the country. Therefore, I don’t see a divided house in the PDP. I see an opportunity for us to come together stronger and united”. As a presidential candidate of the PDP, I shall ensure that I do my all to bring the party together under a formidable umbrella. We must not lose focus of the bigger purpose of rescuing the country from the hardship that fellow Nigerians continue to endure under the ruling party”. “When the PDP gets better, the hopes in Nigerians get even higher that rescue is imminent”. Despite denial by the party leadership that all is well within its fold, the crisis became manifest last when only two out of the 13 governors of the party were present at the inauguration of the party’s campaign council for Osun State governorship election On his part, The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, faulted reports that the governors boycotted the Osun governorship campaign inauguration because of alleged division. “The governors sent in their apologies that they were not able to come; a lot of them were outside the country. The governors of Oyo and Sokoto states were outside the country and because of the exigency of the time, they could not attend. “It will be a mixed characterisation to say they boycotted the event; there was no boycott. We are a party that is united and we are doing our things together.” Also speaking on the way forward, Kola Ologbondiyan, the immediate past national publicity secretary said there is need for the party leadership to reconcile with Wike. “I know Governor Wike as a leader and major stakeholder in the PDP. He is someone who has contributed immensely to the survival and sustenance of the PDP. I also know him as a truly loyal party man and an essential ingredient in our quest to rescue Nigeria from the clutches of the APC in 2023”. “As a result of that, I am very confident that Governor Wike will accept all proposal that is put to him in the interest of the party that he believes in and he has laboured for. I believe that whatever is happening in the party now, there will be peace at the end of the tunnel. I also believe in reconciliation and I know that our party leadership as well as our candidates are working on this”.