LAGOS – Members of Motorcycle and Tricycle Riders Associations in Kwara Central Senatorial District have expressed confidence that the Senatorial Candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Mallam Saliu Mustapha will score at least 75 per cent of the total votes to be cast in the 2023 general election. Representatives of the two associations, Abdulganiyu Ladan (Okada) and Prince Omotosho Shuaib (Tricycle), gave the assurance on Thursday at a rally for the endorsement Mustapha as the APC Kwara Central Senatorial District candidate. The rally, which was organized by Civil Society Organizations under the umbrella of Razaq Kolade Olokoba (RKO) Political Network Groups, took place at Hall B of the prestigious Kwara Hotel, Ilorin, the capital city of the state. Convener and Leader of the group, Comrade Razaq Olokoba in his opening speech, said the event was aimed at galvanizing support for the senatorial candidate, saying his pedigree and antecedent are convincing enough that the senatorial cap fits him and will deliver the good to his people in the district in particular, the state as a whole and Nigeria at large. According to Olokoba, Mustapha is not new to service to humanity as a renowned philanthropist, a politician of note and a competent administrator with special acumen who has cut his teeth in politics and paid his dues economically, believing that, with his good relationship with the people across the board, a greater percentage of the votes in his central district is sure for him. In their own goodwill messages at the event, Ladan and Shuaib unanimously agreed that Mustapha’s indiscriminate good gesture to the people, known and unknown, who come across him will testify that, he deserves their votes and thus would give him their mandate with at least 75 per cent of their votes. “This is the period we will have the opportunity to reciprocate Saliu Mustapha’s philanthropist gesture. Mustapha deserves payback and we will not disappoint him now that he has come around to ask for our assistance. We have been expecting this period for a while to reciprocate the good deeds he has been relentlessly extending to the communities around him,” the duo declared. The event was seized as an opportunity to extend support to other APC candidates across the board namely; the Senatorial Candidate for the Kwara Central District, Mallam Saliu Mustapha, the incumbent Governor, Alhaji AbdurRahman AbdurRazaq and the presidential candidate of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.