Chris Akintunde Opeodu is the President, Institute of Debt Recovery Practitioners of Nigeria. In this interview with TIM OKOJIE AVE, he said the only way forward for Nigeria is to have a technocrat as president in 2023 with requisite knowledge to redirect the ship of state from catastrophe. He also spoke on his agency, The Institute of Debt Recovery Practitioners of Nigeria (IDRPN). Excerpts: Can you throw light on the activities of your agency? The Institute of Debt Recovery Practitioners of Nigeria (IDRPN) was established in 2006 and is managed by a governing council elected into office. IDRPN is an independent organisation. The aims and objectives of the institute in­clude raising, maintaining and regulating the standard of debt recovery practice among its members and promoting professional ethics and efficiency in the debt recovery profession while encouraging, promoting, and coordinat­ing research for advancement of debt recovery practice in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. As an organisation in the business of debt recovery, how would you classify Nigeria’s debt profile in the past seven years? Nigeria debt profile for the past seven years should give responsible citizens cause to worry because government spending is shrouded in secrecy as debt burden grows. As expert on this field, I would suggest that Nigerians braze up for the worst economic crisis because things are going from bad to worse in the country and those managing the economy careless about the survival of the people out there.There is worsening economic crisis at hand,the debt management office of the federation admitted that the existing debt profile is a challenge, and the way out is to convert our present debt to a 30 year debt instrument. We are in the season of elections where politicians go into borrowing spree, would this not further worsen our economic growth? Sure, local borrowings will increase due to political expenses, note also that we are in the era of vote buying; more money will go down the political gutters. My advice to politicians is that they do development based campaign instead of vote buying, which will worsen our economic situation. What role should the Central Bank of Nigeria play in debt reduction? POLL The Central Bank of Nigeria has a role of financial advisors to play effectively if there should be reduction in the country’s debt pro­file. What fate lies ahead of the next president that will come in 2023? The next president should be a technocrat. Nigeria is a debt-ridden country, it will take a brilliant president to manage the economy. l am yet to see, among the present array of pres­idential candidates, who can turn around the debt-challenged economy of Nigeria. What is your debit recovery figure like? Our overall recoveries in 2021/22 stands at N2 billion. Honestly, government’s debt is being handled by the EFCC, which is wrong. Government should also patronise the private sector debt recovery agents that have the where­withal to recover debt from recalcitrant debtors that are available in Nigeria, but the reverse is the case. Even some commercial banks also use the law enforcement agencies. This is un­constitutional. Debt is civil and it is a business transaction model, but these days it is being criminalised to force debtors to pay. There is lawlessness in our society. Using law enforce­ment agencies to collect debt often leads to more crisis and ‘bad belle’. Who is qualified to be a member of your agency? What qualifies one to become a debt collec­tor is ability to read and write, and such per­son must be a graduate of any discipline. It is also important that a debt recovery aspirant attend the week’s online training via Zoom or WhatsApp chat from 5-6pm daily with minimal amount. f which I cannot say on camera.”