LOKOJA – The Executive Director, Conscience for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution, Comrade Idris Miliki has berated political parties and their candidates for entrenching election fraud through vote buying and selling during Elections. Comr. Miliki, made the disclosure at a one day Post Primaries Engagement with Political Parties, Organised by Conscience for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution in Partnership with Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre ( CISLAC) with support from McArthur Foundation on prioritizing Anti Corruption and Accountability Issues Towards 2023 Elections. The Executive Director expressed worries that if there are no sellers there won’t be buyers, blamed Political parties for not doing enough in Political Education and enlightenment, adding that poor governance, by successive administration has reduced majority of electorate to a commodity to be sold and bought. He lamented that over 70,000 registrants in kogi , according to INEC records, were found to have registered for more than once, describing the scenerio to lack of proper enlightenment by the Parties and the election management body. The Executive Director lauded the new Electoral Act which he pointed out has greatly helped in the conduct of Ekiti Governorship Election, which has significantly reduced ballot box snatching and thuggery. He promised to sustain his Sensitization and engagement campaign with citizens towards prioritizing Anti-corruption and Accountability in 2023 Elections. While decriding the pitfalls of the nation’s elections owing to vote buying which has taken a new dimension from wholesale buying at the primaries just held across the country, to the much anticipated retail votes buying in the coming elections.He commended INEC for the introduction of the BIVAS machine as another improvement in the nation’s Electoral system The Executive Director described vote buying and selling as a criminal offense,and charged security agencies to brace up to arrest the emerging act of criminality.Miliki stressed the need for the inclusion of more vulnerable and marginalized groups in the Election processes . -Advertisement- POLL He called on the parties to engage stakeholders on issue based campaigns, in order to checkmate vote buying and Selling. Representatives of thirteen Political parties attended the meeting with the commitments to fighting issues of corruption, pointing out that efforts is on for the candidates to sign up to Anti-corruption and Accountability documents. Recalled that the goal of the project is to reduce corruption in Nigeria by bolstering Support for Anti corruption and Social Inclusion among critical groups and strengthening policies and Programs for anti-corruption at the State Level as the Nation prepares for Election in 2023.