The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) weekend hailed the release of commended the rescue of more than 50 children abducted and held against their will in Ondo State, noting that the Nigerian child should not be a target of violence. Indeed, UNICEF worried about the increasing number of abducted Nigerian children who are being turned into spoils of conflict and condemned the trend. Unfortunately, 26 children and eight teenagers were among 77 people that the Police rescued from the case of suspected abduction from The Whole Bible Deliverance Church in Ondo Town, Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. The United Nations Children’s agency weekend unequivocally reiterated its position that children should not be targets of violence in whatever guise. Violence against children is condemnable and we call on governments to redouble efforts to protect children against all forms of violence. A society’s health is measured by how it treats its children, the UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins stressed. Children have the right to a safe environment, health, education and freedom from abuse and torture – all of which remain compromised when they are in captivity, according to the UN agency. Sadly, children in Nigeria continue to be targets of violence. They face unprecedented violations of their rights, including abductions, torture, killings, recruitment into armed groups, and forced marriages, among other abuses of their rights. Since 2014, over 1000 children have been abducted in the North Eastern part of Nigeria. It is over eight years since 279 schoolgirls were abducted by the armed group Boko Haram in Chibok on April 14, 2014. Although most of the girls escaped or were later released, more than 100 girls remain in captivity. Many more abductions have taken place since Chibok. In 2018, Amnesty International revealed that Nigerian security forces had failed to act on warnings that Boko Haram fighters were heading towards Dapchi town in Yobe state, where they later abducted 110 schoolgirls from the Government Girls Science and Technical College. Statistics revealed at least five more abductions of schoolchildren between December 2020 and March 2021. The frequency of these attacks shows just how unsafe Nigerian schools have become, while the lack of justice has only emboldened the perpetrators. -Advertisement- POLL The threat of further attacks has led to the closure of about 600 schools in the region. Whatever authorities are doing to tame this tide, it is not working. On Friday, December 11, 2020, at about 9:30 pm, gunshots were heard within the premises of Government Science Secondary School in Kankara, Kastina state, northwest Nigeria. Witnesses reported that hundreds of gunmen broke into seven dormitories, rounding up 300 students and marching them to an unknown destination. The students were held in captivity for six nights until their release on 17 December 2020. The night-time attack prompted state governments in Kano, Kaduna, Zamfara, Jigawa and Katsina to order schools to close, contributing to the huge number of children that are out of school in Nigeria. The UN currently puts the figure at 10.5 million. Just a month later, on February 17, 2021, 27 students from the Government Science Secondary School in Kagara, Niger State, were abducted by gunmen from their dormitory in the early hours of the morning. The students were released on 27 February. In another raid on February 26, 2021, hundreds of schoolgirls were abducted from Government Girls Secondary School in Jangebe, Zamfara state. After four days in captivity, 279 of the students were released on 2 March. In March 2021, two different schools were attacked in Kaduna state, northwest Nigeria, including the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization where 30 students were seized on 11 March. Attacks against schoolchildren, teachers, and school buildings show a callous disregard for the right to life and the right to education by both the bandits and insurgents on one hand and the Nigerian authorities who have failed to end these horrifying attacks, on the other. Tens of thousands of children in Nigeria are missing out on their education because of the authorities’ ongoing failure to protect schools, particularly in northern Nigeria, from attacks by insurgents and other armed groups, Amnesty International said recently. Further mass kidnappings of schoolchildren in Nigeria have seen hundreds of children killed, raped, forced into ‘marriages’ or forced to join Boko Haram. This has resulted in hundreds of schools being shut, with disastrous consequences for young people in a region already facing extreme insecurity. While commending the release of the four girls recently abducted in the Chibok community in Borno State, UNICEF further disclosed that between December and July of 2021, at least 1,450 children were abducted, most from their schools, across Central and North-West regions of the country. The released girls and others still in captivity were abducted from the Kautikari community earlier this January in the Chibok Local Government Area. It would be recalled that Chibok came to global attention in 2014 when 276 schoolgirls were abducted from their school. About 173 of the Chibok girls are still missing. A new report released by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in 2015 reveals that at least 800,000 children have been forced to flee their homes as a result of the conflict in northeast Nigeria between Boko Haram, military forces, and civilian self-defense groups. But sadly, dozens of children in northeast Nigeria remain in captivity; the victims of an armed conflict they have nothing to do with. This is unconscionable. The United Nations(UN) therefore ordered that children should not be targets of violence.