The Presidential candidate of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Rabiu Kwankwaso, on Monday said that it is regrettable that the insincerity and intolerance of some leaders have not only inflicted severe wounds on Nigerians but have further widened the country’s fault lines. He reflected that instead of tackling headlong the problem of insecurity, the leadership ignores the victims while insisting that the scourge is exaggerated. The NNPP Presidential candidate disclosed this at the unveiling of Bishop Isaac Idahosa, who was picked last week as the opposition party’s vice presidential candidate. Explaining their mission to the audience at the International Conference Centre, Kwankwaso revealed that they were set to usher in a new Nigeria where justice, equity, the rule of law, and security of lives of the people will be ensured, as he promised that Nigeria will once again be respected in the global community. He said, “Victims of insecurity are ignored. They keep saying that insecurity is exaggerated. We live in a country where schools are shut down but some leaders are using hundreds of millions to purchase forms. All these wounds must be healed. We believed that healing the wounds will bring prosperity and global respect.” He listed qualities that guided the NNPP in her choice of candidates, noting that “Selection of our party candidates was guided by competence, courage, and acceptability and above all, to heal the country of wounds that are existing. On the choice of Bishop Idahosa as his running mate, the former Kano State governor said, “He emerged from over 20 candidates that were all qualified. We want an all-inclusive government that will be fair to all Nigerians. We present to you a rare Nigerian that fits these requirements. POLL I present to you this 57-year-old Man of God, a Nigerian with impeccable credibility and a clear understanding of the country. He is a promoter of a united Nigeria. He is a man who believes that a better Nigeria is possible. I present to you this Nigerian man of God, Bishop and a senior pastor to whom together we shall heal Nigeria from the wounds that have been inflicted on her; a new Nigeria where Justice, fairness, security, and development is assured. I present to you, the next president of the federal republic of Nigeria.” Kwankwanso also called on Nigerians to sack leaders that are always blaming victims of insecurity in the country. According to Kwankwanso, instead of fixing the insecurity challenges, the leaders who have failed are now blaming the victims of insecurity, ignoring their plight. He added that if elected President, they will leave no stone unturned to rescue Nigeria from bad leaders. “Together, we must leave no stone unturned for a new and a better Nigeria where justice and fairness rule, a Nigeria where peace, and security is guaranteed. “We want a Nigeria where unity and opportunity are available, a Nigeria which can be ruled by selfless leaders with integrity and competence, ” he reiterated. On his part, Idahosa, who accepted the nomination, said the country deserves a fresh start and new ideas adding that Nigerians must not allow division and hate. “A fresh deal that will steer the country from insecurity and allow every family to live a decent and credible life is what the NNPP is bringing to you,” Idahosa said, adding that NNPP is fully prepared and capable of providing quality leadership to Nigerians. Idahosa said Nigerians must unite and work towards healing the country, adding that “We must rebuild Nigeria of our dreams and build a nation that invests in the youth, build Nigeria with new technology.” “Nigerians must pay special attention to what is happening in the country and get their voter cards. If you have not done so, talk to every family on the need to vote in the next election,” Idahosa said while thanking Kwankwanso, a man he described as the Madugu and the Jagora of Nigerian politics. Idahosa assured that they will put Nigeria the part of development while calling on Nigerians to sack bad leaders and incompetent leadership. Earlier, the Chairman of the NNPP, Rufa’i Alkali, said their party is the dream team Nigerians have been waiting for. “It is a dream team Nigeria has been waiting for. This team is a collective journey to rescue Nigeria and the team is here,” Alkali said.