LAGOS  – The Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN)Plc., recently hosted its second Micro, Small, and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) summit in Kano in line with its mandate of providing access to finance to small businesses in Nigeria to drive the economy. The event, which was themed on the role of Development Bank in Inclusive Financing had present, Alhaji Tajudeen Dantata, CEO of Dantata Foods as the keynote speaker, alongside panelists like Aisha Tofa, Founder of Startup Kano Hub; Ify Mogekwu of Ify’s Kitchen; Samirah Faruk, Founder Mercy Mission Global Ltd; Olusegun Adegun, Co-Founder, Rural farmers hub and Saratu Buhari, Founder, WeKasuwa. Dr. Tony Okpanachi, the Managing Director/CEO, of Development Bank of Nigeria Plc, in his opening remarks highlighted the importance of the MSMEs to the socio-economic development of the region and the country. According to him, “It has become imperative for us to pull resources together and channel collaborative efforts towards building the capacity of the MSMSE as a way revitalising their operations to address the challenge of access to finance. This will guarantee their growth and boost the economic potentials of this critical sub-sector. “The summit is one of DBN’s stakeholder engagement strategies aimed at creating awareness around our mandate of providing access to finance, capacity building, and partial credit guarantees to the MSMEs in Nigeria. This is important because they play a crucial role in accelerating economic growth through poverty alleviation, job, and wealth creation.” “According to the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics, small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria have contributed about 48% of the national GDP (Gross Domestic Product) in the last five years. With a total number of about 17.4 million, they account for about 50% of industrial jobs and nearly 90% of the manufacturing sector”. He further added that, “though significant growth has been achieved in the MSME sector, there is still much to be done. Kano plays a major economic role in the northern business terrain and the challenges that MSMEs have to contend with are not different from those faced internationally. “They include access to finance, value chains, and markets. A PwC report in 2020 identified obtaining finance, finding customers, and infrastructure deficits as the most pressing problems of MSMEs in Nigeria. POLL “It is therefore pertinent for us as a Bank to champion the conversation on how MSMEs can win despite these challenges, by exposing ways through which MSMEs can benefit from our sustainable financial offerings”. He closed by saying that ,“hosting this event in Kano is apt as it will help us better understand the financial constraints faced by MSMEs in the state.” He, however, said: “DBN will continue to work towards building the capacity of MSMEs, eliminating the financing constraints faced by this sector of the economy and transforming them into instruments of positive and sustained change.”