“Foreign airlines kick as FG blocks $450m ticket revenue.” Report. June 20, 2022. “Nigerian airlines, others to lose $700m in 2022. Report, June21, 2022. I am probably one of a few Nigerians left who still strongly believe that we not only need a national airline; but, we can manage it profitably. I am also the most vocal advocate that we should concession all our airports to Nigerians. Call it absurd patriotism or not; but, I remain convinced that we have not tested ourselves sufficiently — in order to succeed admirably. The current Minister of Aviation, Mr Sirika, is perhaps the most courageous of all those who ever held that portfolio — like late Chief Obafemi Awolowo who once said “the greatest glory is not in never falling, but rising each time you fall.” (Vanguard Book Of Quotations, Vbq, P 55). Unlike the critics who have dismissed the vision of a national carrier as a worthless daydream, by citing our past failures, he, like me, is convinced that Nigeria can achieve that goal if we have enough will. POLL His determination to see this project through also reminds me of the story of the fellow who invented the microwave device. During an interview, he confessed that he had tried about 97 times and failed to create the equipment. Asked further why he persisted, his answer was instructive. Nigerians dismissing Nigeria Air can learn from it. He said: “I learnt from each failed attempt how not to do it.” Instead of discouraging Mr Sirika, we should ask that the Federal Government undertakes an objective study of the reasons why previous attempts failed. In fact, we should be ashamed of ourselves; because Ethiopian Airlines has been wonderfully successful. At the very least, we should swallow our unbecoming monumental pride; go to Addis Ababa, and learn how they manage their airline. That said; despite my boundless optimism that it can and must be done, it is becoming clear that the Federal Government which is promoting it, is also inadvertently making it impossible for it to take off. Several reasons account for my concern. One, given government’s small stake in the venture, it would appear counter-productive for a mini stakeholder to want to appoint the Managing Director – unless it is an interim appointment. Even then, it would appear as if this is typical public sector penchant for putting the proverbial cart before the horse. Some intending shareholders might be put off by this procedural mistake. That, unfortunately, is not the major obstacle. Two, the international investment community in any sector — airlines, airports, seaports, railways, roads, refineries etc – is quite often a small club. They are the organisations with the leading technical know-how and which can mobilise the funds required. They are also very conservative; and they monitor closely the situation in their sector globally. Already, the report that millions of dollars of earned revenue are blocked by the Nigerian authorities is like waving the red flag. It means all is not well in the economy. If existing airlines cannot repatriate their funds, it is unlikely that a new airline will fair better. And, unless that issue is addressed, no foreign investors will be interested in Nigeria Air. Just as important is the state of the domestic airline sector. The report forecasting $700 million loss for Nigerian airlines, operating at the moment, is not exactly the best advertisement for Nigeria Air. A nation whose airlines are losing money will definitely find it difficult, if not impossible, to attract investments. Obviously, there must be something toxic in the operating environment which makes profit-making a daunting task – irrespective of how efficient the management is. Finally, the effort to get Nigeria Air off the ground might be weighed down by the fact that the long term investment proposal is being promoted by a short term administration. Investors need cast iron assurance that a new government in 2023 will not scrap the entire deal – even if it was concluded by then. The in-coming government will most certainly want to review the project and appoint its own officials. Unless the Federal Government can wrap up the deals involved by December, it looks almost as if it will amount to labour lost. From January, every Minister should be writing his handing over report – not initiating new projects. End of the Road For Discos? “Fidelity Bank takes over Benin, Kano, Kaduna Discos over indebtedness.” Report, July 6, 2022. The take over of the three Distribution Companies, Discos, by Fidelity Bank, was an accident waiting to happen. The three were not the first; and they will not be the last. So many Discos, if not all, are in such financial distress, with no light at the end of the dark tunnel in which they are stuck, as to preclude rescue. The Federal Government, has understandably waded into the matter for obvious reasons. The Federal Government wants to prevent a domino effect as a consequence of three companies falling at once. If care is not taken, a race to be the first to take over a Disco by all the banks might soon be underway. When that happens, the untidy arrangement established by the Jonathan administration might be coming to an end – leaving the nation in a limbo. The impending calamity could not have come at a worse time for Nigeria. A lame duck administration, with power diminishing, is not exactly in the best position to take lasting measures. The banks, which might have justification for the take-over, are probably not in a position to manage the Discos. The Discos, meanwhile, are in deep trouble right now. They have all lost their most potent power over customers – the power to disconnect. Eko Electricity Distribution Company, EKEDC, provides the example to illustrate their collective and individual impotence to increase revenue. I was sitting in front of a shop in Lagos Island on June 24, 2022, when EKEDC operations personnel came to the neighbourhood to beg, yes beg, the people to be allowed to restore a power line – which EKEDC had dropped on May 29, 2022, after a hot dispute with some people in the neighbourhood. The people retaliated by refusing to collect the bills for May, and consequently, no payments were made. The situation was made worse by frequent of grid failure since March. Thus, for almost the entire month, there was no power supply. EKEDC knew that unless power was restored, they could not distribute June bills in early July. That was what prompted the appeal made without police men to accompany them. Unfortunately for EKEDC, the people have now adjusted to power failure. They are no longer afraid of disconnection. In fact, they now invite it; and they don’t intend to pay – especially crazy bills anymore. There is now a Mexican stand-off which is not in anybody’s interest, but which places EKEDC at risk of take-over. Where Do We Go From Here? “This is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But, it is perhaps, the end of the beginning.” Sir Winston Churchill, 1874-1965, November 10, 1942. Fidelity Bank understandably acted in the best interest of its shareholders and depositors. Private banks are not established in the national interest. Other banks might soon follow. But, banks taking over Discos is not the final solution. At best, it dismantles the existing structure; without replacing it with a more enduring one. In the end, all Nigerians will suffer for a long time for it. Something more permanent is needed.