 LAGOS– Analysts have identified the conflicts over the emergence of presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, his choice of running mate, and the agitation for the resignation of Iyorcha Ayu as issues that may prove too costly for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in its quest to return to power if not well handled and promptly. The analysts and stakeholders, who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT, noted that since the former vice president won the PDP presidential primary, he had been confronted with several un­foreseen challenges, especially from his party and some parts of the country. It would be recalled that Atiku won the prima­ry after the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tam­buwal, dramatically pulled out at the last minute and openly instructed his supporters among the delegates to vote for the former vice president. Thus, Atiku won, beating the Rivers State governor and Tambuwal’s associate to the sec­ond position, an action which triggered a bitter outburst by the Rivers helmsman, who was also not picked as vice presidential candidate contrary to expectation despite coming top at the selection committee level. Already, politicians and agents of several polit­ical parties, including the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have turned the Rivers Govern­ment House into their political haven as they now woo the outspoken governor to ditch his party so that Atiku will meet his waterloo in the coming election. Also, the Southern leaders who had in sever­al meetings with the governors agreed that the presidency should be rotated to the South were angry that their wish was not respected by the PDP, which instead threw the primary open. Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a People’s Demo­cratic Party (PDP) chieftain and one of those who spoke to Sunday INDEPENDENT, maintained however that the successes or otherwise of any political party solely lies on how close-knit the members are in terms of focus and set goals, hence an organisation is called a ‘party’, which he described as a gathering of different personalities with one purpose, which is to form a government for the good of the people. POLL Kalu, the National Coordinator of Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), howev­er, going biblical, stressed that a house divided against itself can never stand, adding, “That is the pedestal at which PDP stands. But, the joyful thing is that it has a remedy. I believe that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is a great leader, who is capa­ble of handling whatever challenges the party may be having or experiencing, either real or perceived. “I am of the conviction that what he needs to do at this point is to go and meet with Governor Nyesom Wike and have real dialogue that will calm his nerves, as well as other aggrieved party members. “Without sounding prejudiced, there is no way the PDP can go into this election without all her stakeholders on board because any further de­lay and/or happenstances of ego play will breed room for luring of potential assets into other par­ties that will not work to the best of our interest as a party. “You are aware that a soldier that fought in camp A will be a disaster if he joins camp B to fight against A because he knows all their strengths and weaknesses. That is a scenario we should not allow to creep into the party. “Besides Gov. Wike is a mover and has what it takes to win elections, therefore, keeping silent will not resolve this, we need to reach out to him in order to mend fences for the good of the party and victory for the sake of the masses. “Therefore, I will say that the highest hurdle before Atiku is resolving all intra-party crisis that may cause PDP her victory. This will be his first step to becoming the president of Nigeria with the capacity to unite the people for progress.” Hon. Dennis Adikwuru, a PDP leader in Imo State, however, noted that the post presidential primary crisis in the PDP was not a strange oc­currence, especially for a vibrant party on the verge of regaining power. He maintained that the emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the party’s presidential candidate might appear to a few as unexpected, but stressed that it was the most expedient and strategic deci­sion of the national delegates to have voted in the former vice president. Adikwuru said: “Coming on the heels of the presidential primaries is the selection of the vice presidential candidate. “The people fanning the embers of crisis in PDP are either playing up a non-existent crisis or a rerouted direction of the crisis. “Governor Nyesom Wike had emphatically de­clined the vice presidential offer as he was quoted as saying he did not vie for the Vee Pee slot, but the presidential. And I agree with him to the extent that Wike commands executive power and not a delegated power with its limits. “I cannot subscribe to the Wike vice presi­dency and what awaits Wike is a super Ministry where he will bring to bear, his wealth of influ­ence to the appointed sector of the economy with ocular results. “In the light of the above, I do not believe Atiku is facing a herculean task in the so-called PDP crisis, but rather it is a family issue which is being resolved systematically. “You will also agree with me that Atiku is a good manager of conflicts and without much noise on the floor, he is getting on to resolve the real issues arising from the party primaries with other contending matters. “In a couple of days, PDP will emerge stronger, more united and resolute in the quest to recover the Nigerian Presidency from the failed govern­ment of APC.” However, Tony Ademiluyi, a public affairs analyst, maintained that Atiku Abubakar is caught between the devil and the deep blue sea at the moment. He said: “I personally don’t blame him for pick­ing Ifeanyi Okowa over Nyesom Wike. Wike is too combative and lacks diplomacy as he is rather rambunctious and a Bull in the China’s Shop. “He would be too tough for Atiku to handle as president and every right thinking president would prefer a subservient deputy, whom Okowa epitomises.” Ademiluyi stressed that Wike’s flaws notwith­standing, “he is still an asset to the PDP as he is a grassroots politician who knows how to mobilise people to achieve a cause. “Atiku has to reach out to him and mend fences so that he can get South-South votes. Rivers is a key state controlled by the PDP and they can’t afford to lose it because of the internal crisis. “Atiku can still come out unscathed if he reconciles with Wike who has the support of a majority of the PDP governors. This may be his final shot at the presidency on age grounds and so it’s imperative he doesn’t let his defeat come from disgruntled elements within the PDP that may work against him from within.” Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh, an activist and National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF), stated that Atiku’s inability to reach out to all those who contested for the ticket with him till now is not good. According to Odeh, Atiku only visited those he believed had electoral value, an action he be­lieved did not speak well of a standard bearer of the party. Hear him: “In politics you don’t underestimate anybody as your area of strength may be to win the primary while others are winning the general elections. So, you need all those who slugged it out with you whether they score a vote or not. “The 2023 election won’t be a political party’s decision because Nigerians are angry, especially about how the processes that produced the can­didates were monetised and are ready to change the order, though we await the final list of run­ning mates which will be made public in the next couple of days.” Comrade Godspower Aguh, the Chairman, Okada Riders and Owners Association (Non-In­digenes), Lagos State, said: “Firstly, the obstacles facing Atiku is reuniting with the Southerners after he could not pick Nyesom Wike as his run­ning mate in consideration with the 17-man panel who chose him (Wike) to be his running mate, rather than Okowa. “Okowa is a good and vibrant man. But then, though he has what it takes to pull the South, all the Southern PDP governor are okay and good to go with Governor Wike. “Furthermore, the question facing Atiku is: If Wike is chosen as his running mate, will he be loyal? Atiku will not like to face what happened between him and former President Olusegun Obasanjo. “Wike is strong, but he was made strong by men. So, Okowa can be made strong also. I am just coming out of a union election that was contested with the Northerners and Southerners. “I know what it takes to choose a running mate. But, my advice to Atiku is to call Wike and other Southern governors that support Wike to offer him any other position rather than being his vice. “I am ashamed of the Minister of Information that he is saying that Nigeria is safe in the present government with all the killings and economi­cal failure and meltdown, ASUU strike, prison breaks, etc. President Muhammed Buhari should tender his resignation letter or be impeached. I rest my case.” Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, President/Executive Director Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative, maintained that the PDP seemed to be ‘Northernised’. Hear him, “The National Chairman is from the North; Chairman, Board of Trustees, is from the North; the Chairman, PDP Governors Forum, is from the North and the presidential candidate is also from the North. “Combined with these, the second highest candidate in PDP presidential primaries , Gov. Nysom Wike, was not picked by Atiku as his running mate, as recommended by the commit­tee Atiku himself set up for that, chaired by the Deputy National Chairman (North), Ambas­sador Umaru Iliya Damagum, but he rather picked Okowa. “In view of the above issues, the discontent within the party is massive… And Atiku’s abil­ity to scale this unscathed, will determine his political sagacity. “In politics, 24 hours is very long and be­tween now and September when the cam­paign officially commences, we look forward to an amicable resolution.” Pastor Dr. Victor Mathew, Executive Di­rector, Kingdom Advocacy Network, stated: “First and foremost the emergence of Atiku negates natural principles of fairness and equity. “The current president is a Fulani and a Muslim who is about to complete eight years in office and another Fulani man and Muslim wants to succeed him. I am not an advocate of tribal and religious politics, but in a hetero­geneous society like ours, it is important for such balances to be made in order to foster national cohesion. “So, when Atiku emerged, I knew PDP, though the biggest party, had now halved their chances of winning the presidential elections. The present crisis in PDP is an offshoot of the issue of Southern presidency. “Majority of the PDP governors are in the South who though could not stop Atiku, but their body language and statements suggest lack of support for the issues to be resolved.” Pastor Victor, State Secretary, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), Lagos State, continued: “The crisis took a higher dimension when Governor Wike was denied the vice presidential slot, even when a com­mittee set up by the party had recommended him for that position. “So, this fragmentation within the party and the Southern quest for the presidency will definitely limit his chances of winning. “It would have been a smooth ride for the PDP considering the abysmal and lackluster performance of the Buhari administration. I will describe the Buhari administration as a colossal failure and disaster.”