Following the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s victory in the just concluded Osun State governorship election, the Lagos and Ogun State Chapter of the party have called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Governor Dapo Abiodun to start preparing their handover notes, stressing that defeat awaits them in the 2023 general elections. The opposition party made this known in a separate press statement issued on Tuesday The Ogun chapter in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Bankole Akinloye said it would mobilise its members and supporters to ensure Abiodun did not return for a second term just like his Osun State counterpart, Governor Gboyega Oyetola. Akinloye, therefore, charged party members to renew their commitment to winning the 2023 governorship election in the state. He said, Ademola Adeleke’s victory “remains a symbolic attestation to the fact that no amount of money is big enough to buy a determined mind. “We urge all members of our great party to work in synergy with all relevant tendencies and renew their commitment to the cause of liberating the good people of Ogun State who have continually suffered all manners of irresponsibility and avoidable agony, misery and deaths under the perfidious watch of Prince Dapo Abiodun and his sinking ship, the rudderless APC.” Correspondingly, Lagos PDP Publicity Secretary, Hon Hakeem Amode also asked Governor Sanwo-Olu to start preparing his handover notes while defending the choice of Funke Akindele as the party’s deputy governorship candidate in the state. He said, “We would like to inform the APC that the table has turned, Lagos State and the good people living therein are tired of the few gathering at their lord’s table to determine the life and living standard of the people of the state. POLL “We hereby urge the party to see the handwriting on the wall and start to prepare the handing over note. We are not surprised that the APC as a party is not finding it easy in its elusive political comfort zone, and we are well aware of their antics and underhand in the previous elections and we are using this opportunity to warn the party to desist from its character assassination, divide and rule tactics and politics of bitterness which have remained the roots of their political gain. “It is imperative to remind the APC that our youths are well-informed now and knowledgeable with information to see beyond the party APC and its government make-believe projects in the state. “We are assuring them that archaic political bravura will not guarantee electoral victory for them come February 2023.” Also, the Ogun State Chairman of the New Nigeria People Party (NNPP), Oginni Olaposi, told Governor Abiodun to “as a matter of urgency start the writing of his handover notes, noting that the fall of an incumbent governor of APC was a bad omen for Abiodun, hence: “It’s the end of the road for APC election manipulations and Abracadabra.”