By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba) first published in May 2015 Intro: Two weeks ago, this column republished “The Fuel Subsidy Dilemma: The Sensible Way Out.” The article examines the role of monetary strategy on the value of the Naira and subse­quently, the welfare of Nigerians. If you missed this republication, it can be accessed via the below link. (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more ar­ticles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) Today’s republication is the next article in the fuel subsidy series. It was written after last week’s article (cited above), and it further discusses the various ways that the governing powers of the nation could address the issue of fuel subsidy through effective mon­etary policy. This article is written in interview style format, to an­swer frequently asked questions as a result of previous articles in this series. The article’s relevance in today’s economic climate is as crucial as it was during its initial publication. Kindly read on for more insight. As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its initial publication (2015). The earlier articles in this series explained why the Naira exchange rate remains the primary ob­stacle to the removal of Nigeria’s debilitating annual fuel subsi­dy burden of about N1 trillion. Clearly, weaker Naira exchange rates induce higher fuel prices; for example, even if crude oil re­mains as low as $50/barrel; fuel prices will rise above N300/litre if the Naira depreciates to say, N400=$1. Conversely, the ‘subsidy free’ fuel price of about N150/litre is the product of the current N200=$1 exchange rate with the same crude oil benchmark of $50/ barrel. POLL Similarly, if Naira is much stronger at N100=$1, while crude price remains at $50/barrel, ‘sub­sidy free’ fuel prices will predict­ably fall below N75 per barrel i.e., well below the current subsidized market price of N87/litre, thus, creating room for at least N8/litre as possible sales tax. Hereafter, we will respond to some frequently asked questions on the recommendation that Naira will increasingly become stronger with adoption of dollar certificates for payment of allo­cations of dollar denominated revenue to government. Will the recommendation for dollar certificates not dollarize the econo­my? Answer: The affinity for dollar is clearly because vendors find that the US currency serves as a relatively more stable store of value than the Naira. Similarly, before 1980, Nigeri­ans also preferred the Naira be­cause it was a safer store of val­ue than the dollar! In retrospect, the Naira was readily, ironical­ly, accepted in major cities like London and New York, at a time, our total foreign reserves hardly approached $10bn! Unfortunately, over the years, domestic transac­tions have become dollarised by CBN’s monetary strategies which weaken the Naira in the foreign exchange market. The recommendation for dol­lar certificates is therefore an at­tempt to properly reposition the Naira and give it a fair chance to gradually regain strength. Clear­ly, the Naira exchange rate can be improved with strategic reduc­tion of the unceasingly surplus Naira that constantly confronts the paltry dollar rations which CBN auctions weekly. Conse­quently, the adoption of dollar certificates/warrants for pay­ment of allocations of dollar de­rived revenue will most certainly reduce unyielding Naira surplus and skew market equilibrium in favour of the Naira and its adop­tion as a good store of value. Why is surplus cash responsible for our economic woes? Answer: It is ironic that sur­plus cash should be an obstacle to economic growth, and it is equally inexplicable that surplus funds should also engender the prevailing high cost of borrow­ing. Nonetheless, any critical ob­server will not miss the reality that the current unilateral, direct substitution of fresh Naira val­ues as allocations for dollar de­rived revenue, actually opens up a can of worms. This deliberate misguided payments’ strategy is the source of the unyielding scourge of ex­cess liquidity, which has made the attainment of a prosperous or diversified economy a mirage, despite our abundant resources. The CBN will certainly not deny that so long as there is increasing­ly unmanageable surplus Naira in the system, income values will not be preserved as inflation will not fall to international best prac­tice rates below 3 percent, neither would cost of funds become in­dustrially supportive across the board at not more than 7 percent; similarly, the Naira exchange rate will keep depreciating to negate public adoption of the Naira as a safe store of value. Furthermore, fuel prices will continue to soar as the Naira be­comes weaker to ultimately also make the outright removal of subsidy very unpopular! How will dollar certificates minimize excess Naira supply? Answer: Despite lower crude oil prices, export dollar revenue from crude oil sales still accounts for the lion’s share of annual bud­gets; government’s income from taxes on domestic economic activ­ities and the rents and dividends from state assets constitute Naira denominated income. Indeed, while the Naira income derived from local productive ac­tivities has minimal inflationary impact, the unilateral substitu­tion of fresh Naira values for crude oil dollar derived revenue, unduly bloats the monthly con­solidated Naira allocations to the three tiers of government. Ulti­mately, the huge, monthly fresh Naira inflow expands the capac­ity of banks to liberally increase credit which may inadvertently also spur consumer demand to trigger an inflationary spiral in the prices of goods and services. In order to stop such inflation­ary credit expansion, the CBN would embark on tightening the noose by reducing the extent of the new cash inflow which may be advanced as bank credit; for ex­ample, the CBN Monetary Policy Committee decided on 20/5/2015, that banks must keep 31 percent of their cash deposits sterile and therefore lend out only 69 percent. Furthermore, in order to dis­courage credit expansion and restrain inflation, commercial banks will also pay a high inter­est rate of 13 percent, whenever they required temporary cash support from CBN.. Clearly, if banks paid 13 percent on their own debts, it is not difficult to understand why banks would in turn charge over 20 percent for loans to their customers, includ­ing those loans to the real sector, despite their roles as the engine of growth and employers of la­bour in every successful economy. However, this unforced stum­bling block to economic and so­cial progress will be reversed if the dollar component of monthly revenue allocations were settled with dollar certificates, so that public beneficiaries would ap­proach their banks to exchange their allocations for Naira at a market determined exchange rate, since dollar certificates are not legal tender. Such a payments reform will engender minimal ‘surplus’ Nai­ra in the system as fresh Naira values are not introduced, where­as, market dollar supply will be­come liberalized through direct allocations to 36 State Govern­ment’s, 774 Local governments and hundreds of government Departments and Agencies. Ultimately, prevailing infla­tionary pressures would recede in the absence of the usually bloated allocations which induced excess Naira, so that in consonance with best practice in successful econo­mies everywhere, CBN could then lower its lending rate to banks to 2-3 percent, while banks, could in turn lend to the real sector at between 6-9 percent; furthermore, without the erstwhile domination of available market credit by gov­ernment and its Agencies, the banks would inevitably become forced to seek out the real sector for business if they (the banks) must survive. The sustenance of this pay­ments system will gradually improve Naira exchange rate as liberal dollar supplies chase min­imal Naira surplus. Will dollar certificates facilitate trea­sury looting and repatriation of illicit proceeds? Answer: No, in fact this ar­rangement will reduce and min­imize the opportunities for forex round tripping, and other such illicit capital flows abroad. The porous leakages associated with the failure of the current pay­ments system is clearly evident from regular media reports of the widespread malfeasance in the foreign exchange market and CBN’s apparent inability to curb the excesses. However, with dollar certifi­cates, the allocated dollar values will remain domiciled in the ac­counts of institutional holders, (i.e.., government and banks) with CBN. Consequently, dollars exchanged for Naira by govern­ment beneficiaries from any bank will also remain domiciled with the CBN, and disbursement will ultimately only be made directly to legitimate recipients abroad by the Apex Bank as payments for approved imports and services on receipt of specific instruction from banks who have adequately funded their dollar domiciliary accounts with the Apex Bank. So, unless the CBN is a willing ac­complice, Nigeria’s forex income will be better managed with due diligence. Save the Naira, Save Nige­rians!!