NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE, TOYIN ADEBAYO ABUJA  – A combination of tax, high cost of inputs and high handed regulation by the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, is believed to be gradually killing small and medium scale businesses in the confectionary and Lessure industry in the nation’s capital. Earlier in the week no less than 40 bakeries have closed shop in Abuja, while the FCTA began enforcement of closure of Lessure parks in the FCT who fail to comply with the new deadline of closing shop by 7.15 pm. For the bakeries, the cause of distress are cost of production and multiple taxation and hike in electricity tariff, among others. It was learnt that some of the bakeries were not opened for business due to operational cost and multiple taxation by some government agencies. In a comprehensive report by an agency, some of bakeries that have closed shop are Abumme bakery Ltd. Lugbe, Airports road, Hamdala Bakery, Kuje, Harmony Bite Bakery, Karu, Doweey Delight Bakery Ltd, Kubwa. Others include Merit Baker, Mpape, Funez Baker, Orozo, Slyz Bakery, Wuse Zone 2, among others. Mr Ishaq Abdulraheem, the Chairman, Abuja Master Bakers, FCT said that it was becoming increasingly disturbing that bakeries in Abuja could no longer cope with the high cost of production. -Advertisement- POLL He said that most members had lost their means of livelihood, while workers had been out of job due to the shout down. He called on the Federal Government to quickly intervene and check agencies of government frustrating bakery business. He identified some of the agencies to include National Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), National Environmental Standards and Regulations, Enforcement Agency (NESREA). He said that the six Area Councils in FCT had also made business very unpleasant and difficult for bakery with huge taxes and tenement rates. An Abuja baker, Mr Nuhu Musa of Hamdala Bakery, Kuje, FCT appealed to government to regulate the activities of these agencies so reduce the different taxes they imposed on bakers. Musa said many bakeries were struggling to survive due to high cost of production. “We want government to regulate these agencies so that our production process will be easy. “These taxation are negatively impacting on our business to the extent that many of us have closed down. “This is also affecting employment as many bakery workers are out of work presently and you know the effect of that on the society; some will turn to criminality,’’ he said. Musa said for instance, NAFDAC will come to their bakeries to check for certificates, while SON will come for the registration of the product. “How much we are making to warrant all these checking and payments,’’ he said. Some of the Abuja residents who spoke with NAN decried the high cost of bread in the market, stressing that bread was gradually becoming the food for the rich. Mr Julius Anthony, a resident said that some of the breads he usually bought for N500 per loaf now cost as much as N1,000. Miss Aisha Danjuma, another resident of FCT called on the government to immediately intervene over the high cost of bread, adding “bread is the food for the masses and must not be taken away from them.’’ On the Park closure, FCTA decided to enforce the Park Policy, which requires all nightlife fun seekers to leave parks at 7 o’clock in the evening, this decision has caused pain among the owners and operators of recreational facilities in Abuja, who have lamented the loss of revenues. The enforcement began at the well-known Eden Garden in Jabi at around 8:14 p.m., then moved to the Par Excellence Waterfalls and Park, Unity Global Garden, and Grillzhut Garden—all in Wuse Zone 5—as well as the Deli Restaurant and Garden in Wuse Zone 4. It concluded at City Park in Wuse II. Most of the locations were still filled with nightlife enthusiasts and customers seated around their pleasure tables in various clusters, but they reluctantly left when the enforcement squad arrived and interrupted their groove. Madam Winners Wokoma, who runs a sit out restaurant at the Eden Garden, said her losses due to the policy would be enough to send someone to the grave, but will comply with the orders. Also, a Manager at the elites City Park, Wuse II, Micheal Akogwu said he opted to close exactly at 7pm in compliance with the directives to avoid troubles from the government. While adding that the revenue losses in the Park are very colossal, considering different segments those offer unique services with their attractive selling points. Meanwhile, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Comrade Ikharo Attah said enforcing the policy was not meant to kill people’s businesses, but to instill a sense of sanity to the parks and recreation sector. He, however, regretted that the good intentions of the administration in allocating parks and gardens has been abused , he called for understanding and compliance. He, therefore, assured that the administration will continue to dialogue with owners and operators of parks, to fine tune the processes, to ensure seamless implementation. According to him: “ We came out this night for advocacy enforcement, we have gone round some gardens to ensure compliance to FCTA Park policy 2005 that states that parks should close by 7pm, that is why we appear to be very soft. “ Everyone is concerned about parks operators, we really want them to make money, but we still need orderliness. Parks are not lounges, nightclub and hotels. They have specific guidelines on how they should operate. I think with time, everyone will begin to adjust”.