JU LIET OYOYO Kaduna State has always been known as the political nerve centre of Northern Nigeria due to its mafia-like politics. This is not unexpected, given its history as the capital of the now defunct Northern Region, which is why many have believed over the years that when Kaduna sneezes politically, the rest of the North catches cold. No wonder then a grounded politician once said: “Tell me a political figure in the North that does not have a house in Kaduna? Do you know why? It is because it is home to all northerners where they cut their teeth in politics.” Our source added: “In Northern politics, you have to have a link with the powers that be in Kaduna,” a situation that continues to inform the choice of the calibre of those who have either governed the state or, even intend to do so today, ahead of the 2023 governorship election. As the 2023 general elections draw near, political parties in Kaduna and their gubernatorial candidates are poised for what many regard as a “clash of titans,” in possible reference to the political sagacity of the candidates, especially because most are household names in the game nationwide. Front-liners in the race to replace the incumbent Governor Nasir Ahmed el-Rufai in the Kaduna State Government House on May 29, 2023 include former Senator Othman Suleiman Hunkuyi of Musa Kwakwanso’s New Nigeria Peoples Party, a grassroots mobilizer in his own right and former Finance Commissioner during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration of Mohammed Ahmed Makarfi between 1999 and 2007. He will have to contend with Hon. Isah Mohammed Ashiru Kudan, a former member of the Federal House of Representatives, now the PDP flag bearer, also said to be a grassroots mobilizer, who unlike many others has remained with the party through thick and thin. Yet another strong contender for the highly coveted seat is Senator Uba Sani of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a former Special Adviser to ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, who would become governor, if the power to anoint is in the hands of Governor el-Rufai. Uba Sanni, seen by many as a trusted ally of the governor, it was who replaced Shehu Sani as Senator representing Kaduna Central Zone at the upper chamber of the National Assembly. -Advertisement- POLL “He is a bulldozer and cannot be overlooked,” who has the youths on his side, and continues to consolidate on his frontrunner momentum, Daily Independent from keen followers of Kaduna politics. Flying the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) flag is Rev. Andrew Duya, a clergy man of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA), who says he is on a mission to rescue Kaduna State from the shackles of poverty, underdevelopment. He is expected to garner enough support from the people who desire a new breed, different party, and even a non-politician. NNPP As Third Force Hunkuyi, 63, the Senator to represent Kaduna North Senatorial Zone, is believed to have played a major role in the emergence of Mallam el-Rufai as governor of the State on the banner of the APC, before decamping back to PDP, ahead of the 2019 general elections, due to disagreements with the governor. His exit from the PDP this time, may not be unconnected with his recent suspension along with six others by the party’s caretaker committee for anti-party activities. In a letter protesting the suspension, addressed to the Chairman, North-West Zonal Working Committee, (National Vice Chairman North- West Zone) of the party, pursuant to Section 61 (1) of the PDP Constitution, the affected members said they were denied the opportunity to defend themselves. They averred that the May 16, 2020 decisions of the State Working Committee were untenable before the law, since a caretaker committee which is what exists in Kaduna State lacked powers to appoint/constitute a disciplinary committee. He resigned from the PDP last February, and was selected the governorship flagbearer of the NNPP of Kaduna State by the affirmation of the 732 accredited delegates at the shadow election for next year’s poll. The ex-federal lawmaker is not new to the governorship race, having lost the PDP ticket in 2018 to a former House Committee Chairman on Appropriation, Isa Ashiru. Accepting the NNPP nomination, he promised to tackle the crippling insecurity that has forced farmers in the state to abandon their farmer, leading to poverty and starvation, just as road travel is no longer safe due to criminal activities of bandits. Worse still, he lamented: “We have never been divided in Kaduna State like we are today. Rural areas and semi-urban areas have been totally neglected in terms of infrastructural development.” Although credited with a generous amount of political sagacity, Hunkuyi’s decision to contest under a relatively new party for the office of the governor, many say, would not be an easy ride. Political analysts, nonetheless, agree that the 2023 election would significantly not be about the political party but individuals who the electorate believe can deliver the much awaited dividends of democracy, a situation expected to improve Hunkuyi’s chances at the poll. Despite all odds, there are those across northern Nigeria who regard NNPP as the much awaited third force, and expect Hunkuyi to be a beneficiary of such shift. Ashiru Kudan: Exuding Confidence A two-time Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial flagbearer, Ashiru Kudan, once again clinched the PDP gubernatorial primary ticket last month, defeating Sani Sidi, ex-governor Ramalan Yero, who came a distant third, and three others, including ex-Senator Shehu Sani. A staunch PDP member, this is not his first attempt at contesting the gubernatorial election in the state, and like Hunkuyi, the former member of the House of Reps is said to be a grassroots mobilizer, who is credited with continuing to finance and make sacrifices to keep the party afloat. This, many attribute to the unalloyed trust and confidence he enjoys from across the various strata of the part, with members confident on his ability to win the 2023 gubernatorial poll. Added to these, analysts say he has a lot working in his favour, including the support of notable political heavyweights at the state and national level of the PDP, owing to his sacrifices and dedication over the years. His supporters are confident that Kudan will succeed this time around, as they prepare for aggressive campaigning, ready to slug out with other contenders, leveraging on the shortcomings of other contenders. Sani As APC’s Trump Card Uba Sani, described as a politician’s politician, was said to have traversed the local government councils of the state ahead of the primaries which was conducted in May, , campaigning for support from the would-be APC delegates, hence the belief that he is more than prepared to slug it out with other contenders. Reports say he was selected as el-Rufai’s preferred choice after inputs by various stakeholders of the party in the state and the government, including opinion polls conducted on the governorship hopefuls, for his “vast experience” as a presidential aide, political adviser, as well as his track record at the upper legislative. Others considered within the “political family,” during the various consultations were Muhammad Sani Abdullahi, fondly known as Dattijo, and Hadiza Balarabe, the deputy governor of the state. The decision to select one candidate from the family is believed to be the desired to present a united front and ensure the best as determined by close observers emerged eventually at the primary. Dattijo is an international development expert who served twice as planning and budget commissioner and el-Rufai’s chief of staff, while Sani, a first-term lawmaker is said to rank among the top 10 senators, having sponsored a total of 21 bills in just three years in the senate. He is actually ranked fourth on that count. Sani, therefore, emerged the party’s governorship candidate, defeating a former House of Representatives member and an in-law to President Muhammadu Buhari, Alhaji Sani Sha’aban; and a former Assistant Controller of Custom, Bashir Abubakar by a wide margin. In a speech after the shadow election, Sani appreciated the support of Governor el-Rufai, assuring him of his determination to take the state to higher heights, while promising “consolidation and continuity.” “We shall build on the wonderful legacies of our dear leader, the irrepressible Governor Nasir el-Rufai. Together we shall tackle our challenges and forge unity among our people,” he stressed. Can Duya Deliver For APGA? Andrew Duya is definitely not as popular as the other flag bearers, but he expects that his message, rather than his person and political history will perhaps speak for him. For him, Kaduna needs a governor who will harness all that GOD has blessed the state with, such as “good soil, friendly vegetation and fine weather, great agricultural and natural resources.” Based on these, he believes, “we should have no business or relationship with poverty.” Although he belongs to the class of those referred to as new breed who could offer new perspectives to governance, the very fact that the state which is still regarded as the political capital of the 19 northern states and the traditional rulers has never been governed by a Christian, except for the late Patrick Yakowa, who assumed the position on May 20, 2010, following the emergence of then Governor Namadi Sambo as Vice President to President Goodluck Jonathan. He ran for election in 2011 and won but died on December 15, the following year, in a helicopter crash along with the former National Security Adviser Gen. Owoye Andrew Azazi (rtd) while flying from Bayelsa state to Port Harcourt, on their way from the funeral of Oronto Douglas’ father. A Show Of Strength Political watchers in the state agree in their separate responses to questions posed by Daily Independent, that the “2023 gubernatorial election in Kaduna will be a test of might involving many political heavyweight and grounded politicians each showcasing his strength and passion to lead right but whichever way it goes, the electorates will decide on whom to vote for.” But many argue that with all of nine months to the all-important election, so many factors which are not yet under consideration could change the equations during the Kaduna gubernatorial polls, just as those of other states, especially given the level of political consciousness, especially among young and new voters most of who have eagerly registered for their Permanent Voters Card and ready to ensure their voices are heard. Whether there will be a significant shift in the current situation, only time will tell and until then, it is a season of high powered intrigues and power play, even as plots by politicians thicken in the days ahead as each moves to outsmart the other to ensure he becomes the next occupant of the Sir Kashim Ibrahim House, seat of the Kaduna State government.