A politically conscious youth group in Ondo State, Ondo Youths Movement, has declared its loyalty and unflinching support for the aspiration of the candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) for the State House of Assembly, Joseph Kolawole Oluwaseyi. Already, many well-meaning indigenes of Akoko North-West Local Government Area of the State are backing Oluwaseyi to represent Akoko North-West Constituency I in the State Assembly in the 2023 general election. In a communique issued by the State Coordinator, Bright Alabi at the end of its meeting, the group said the Oke-Agbe-Akoko-born young entrepreneur has all it takes to represent the people. Alabi said Akoko North-West youths are backing his candidacy, because of his antecedents and love for development of the youths. The communique reads in part, “Many aspire to lead, even when they don’t have what it takes to lead. Dr. Oluwaseyi has what it takes to salvage our dear constituency from the verge of collapse, which the past representatives have failed to do. “Our past representatives have not done anything meaningful to bring quality representation to the grassroots and that is why we, as a politically inclined group, are supporting his aspiration to contest, because we are sure he will win and represent his people right”. The group added that it is time to support a personality with a vision and mission to redefine development in the constituency. It also called on all stakeholders in Akoko North-West beyond party affiliations to support aspiration of Oluwaseyi, so that the constituency can move forward. -Advertisement- POLL “At a time like this, our constituency needs a visionary leader, who knows what the common man needs to survive. “Dr. Oluwaseyi, through his exposure and wealth of experience in putting smile on the faces of hundreds of people beyond his constituency, has done well and we are sure all Akoko North-West dwellers and beyond will smile, if he is given the chance to represent us. “His antecedents in diverse professions are clear pointers that he is more fit than any other person to lead the constituency”, the group stressed.