ABUJA – The presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), received a boost on Friday, as youths across the South East geo-political zone have declared support for the party’s candidate in the 2023 election, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and his deputy, Senator Kashim Shettima. The youths, operating under the aegis of Conference of South East Progressive Youths (CSEPY), said their support for Tinubu/Shettima joint ticket was necessitated by the duo’s patriotism, capacity to deliver the much-needed dividends of democracy, as well as their pan-Nigerian approaches to issues of national concerns. Specifically, the youths drew attention to the people-oriented policies, and infrastructural transformation that defined the tenures of the APC’s presidential and vice presidential candidate, in Lagos, and Borno states respectively. In a statement signed by their National President, Barr Emeka Kalu, the South East youths said their support for Tinubu/Shettima, in the face of the subsisting ambition of an Igbo son, Mr. Peter Obi, to contest the presidency on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), is a demonstration of their desire to support competence, rather than sentiment. According to the statement, the youths maintained that they have no personal issues against Obi, as their overwhelming support for the APC presidential ticket, is borne out of the need to offer Nigerians an opportunity to change their fortunes for better. To this end, the youths have appealed to all sons and daughters of South East extraction – both home and in the Diaspora – to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), mobilise support for, and prepare to vote for the realisation of the Tinubu/Shettima ticket. The statement reads in part: “At this time in the life of our dear nation, we must jettison sentiments, ethnic and religious affiliations, and opt rather for candidates with pan-Nigerian outlook, urbane, cerebral, track records of achievements, and above all, those with unifying capacities. “We make bold to say that, a Tinubu/Shettima joint ticket, has all that we have enumerated above, hence our resolve to commit to its actualisation and realisation. POLL “By benefit of hindsight, we will like to remind Nigerians that it was Tinubu’s dogged spirit, and resilient character, that enabled him to weather the storm of seized Local Government Allocations, brought upon Lagos State by the then President Olusegun Obasanjo-led Administration. “On his part, Shettima braved the odds of biting insurgency in Borno State, and enthroned a regime of infrastructure transformation, human-capital development, and religious harmony”.