IBADAN – The Special Adviser to Governor Seyi Makinde on Labour Affairs Comrade Bayo Titilola-Sodo has said those saying prompt payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities is not an achievement is either irresponsibly ignorant or satanically mischievous. As he also said no government in the state has surpassed the Makinde-led administration in terms of infrastructural development within the space of three years in the state. The former state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) stated this while featuring on the monthly personality platform of a group of online publishers in Ibadan. He noted that Oyo State Civil Service was a reflection of the society, explaining that the “state government is paying them as at when due. To whom much is given, much is expected. The request the government has always been making from the workers is to be diligent in their duties, honest and loyal to the government and people of Oyo State. Anyone saying that prompt payment of salary, pension and gratuities is not achievement is either irresponsibly ignorant or satanically mischievous. Anyone who does what Napoleon was unable to do is greater than Napoleon”. On the working relationship with Governor Makinde, he said that the assessment should be based on individual basis, “depending on the perception of the person working with him. But to me, I have found him a pleasant person to work with. All what I know is that anyone that wants to engage him must be fully prepared.” Dwelling on when the state government may review workers’ salary in view of the current economic situation in the land, Titilola-Sodo who was also former NULGE President in Oyo state, “The minimum wage in Oyo state was negotiated in February 2020. “Respective councils were directed to embark on negotiation in December 2021 which was concluded within two months. The minimum wage payment took effect in January and February salary was paid in line with the new minimum wage. So, arrears of the minimum wage were paid in March. POLL “The minimum wage in Oyo state is N30,500. Engr. Seyi Makinde has been paying. He has been keeping to his promise by paying workers’ salary on or before 25th day of every month. The minimum wage negotiation was the first of its kind in Oyo State. It was a negotiation that was devoid of rancor, violence, protest and strike. The governor doesn’t wait for federal allocation before paying the workers. “Although, the salary has not been reviewed upward, we have continued to meet our responsibilities as and when due. Paying workers’ entitlement is not limited to the active workers; the senior citizens are not left behind. This present government has committed over N13.5billion to payment of gratuities across board in the state.” On the state of tertiary institutions in Oyo, Titilola-Sodo said that the government took laudable steps. “The tertiary institutions have the right to make their demands but they should be reasonable in making their demands. No domestic issue with LAUTECH until the national Academic Staff Union of Universities declared a strike. The institution joined the strike but we have other state universities that didn’t join. “We are appealing to them to resume because the institution is just coming out of crisis ridden period. When Oyo State took over the institution, there was an agreement to pay N8billion to Osun State as settlement which the state government has been paying. This is an open secret to which many of the staff of the institution are aware. So, if we now say something is happening nationally, should we now jeopardize the interest of the institution, students and the environment where it is located?