LAGOS – Comrade Ibrahim Fayomi, CEO, Olu Golden Security Company, has said, as the cause to liberate Yewa/Awori continues, he advised that the people must be careful of the steps being taken not to affect the political future of the zone most especially as a senatorial district that is known to be playing second fiddle in the political affairs of Ogun state. He explained that from the inception of Ogun state over 40 years ago, Ogun west senatorial district which is made up of the Yewa and Awori tribe, it is yet to produce a governor while other tribes, the Egbas and the Ijebu’s have handed over the batton to each other like a relay runner on a 4×400 metre race. Stressing that the only position deemed fit for us is to play the second fiddle up till date. He pointed out that the recent political moves of certain sons of Yewa/Awori who showed interest in changing the status quo of the region from being the second fiddle to becoming one of the rulling tribes in the State should be embraced and supported by well meaning sons and daughters. The arrangement is for us to support the present state governor, His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun who is from the Ijebu zone for two term of eight years while we prepare a credible person to take over from him in 2027. He said, “It is however, surprising to see that such an excellent arrangement is now being threatened, as some polticians who claim to be true sons and daughters of Yewa/Awori prefer to remain in the position of a second in command due to greed.” “We can’t afford to serve the Ijebu’s for another eight years. The Egba’s are watching with keen interest and will want to take every opportunity that comes their way come 2027.” “If truly the interest of Yewa/Awori is at play, no one who is from this zone should ever think of taking the position of a second in command again after missing out on the slot the number one citizen for over 40 years. If we don’t get it right now, we may never get it right again”, he added. POLL Fayomi further admonished that it is high time we put politics of bitterness aside and work together for the common goal, good and prosperity of their zone. “We’ve served as deputy for four years, we only have four more years to get to the promised land, we should not thread the part of the Israelites. Anything we do now, posterity will judge us all.” “The divide and rule policy must stop while we focus on achieving a single goal which is for the zone to produce the next governor in 2027”, Fayomi stressed. He urged the good people of Yewa/Awori not to allow few people who for their greed and selfish interest continues to mislead and draw back the hands of development of the zone. The arrangement must stand, he said. “We will support this current administration to succeed. The government of Dapo Abiodun will hand over to us in 2027 by God’s grace”, Fayomi said.