LAGOS – The Railway Police Command of the Nigerian police force, said 13 suspects have  been  arrested for alleged vandalisation and theft of  rail properties. The suspects according to the Command were arrested across the Country. CP Yetunde Longe, Commissioner of Police,  Railway Police Command, who confirmed the arrests,  said the suspected vandals were nabbed in the months of May and June, 2022. She said that on  May 12, 2022, men of the “Railway Police Command upon credible tip off by a group of Civilian Joint Task Force arrested five suspected vandals in Abakwa axis of Kaduna state. “They were intercepted while removing and vandalizing rail irons of the Abakwa old rail line with a gas cylinder. “The suspects are Abubarkar Ayuba (22), Musa Ibrahim (17), Umar Bello (18), Samaila Rabiu (18) and Yahaya Abubakar (18).” In another development,  CP Longe said three  suspects were similarly arrested over vandalism of standard gauge rail pandrol clips, property of the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC)/Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC). The suspects, according to her are Benedict Matthew (20), Ismalia Ibrahim (18), and Abdullahi Iliyasu (20). POLL She disclosed that they were arrested on  June 17, 2022, adding that exhibits recovered from them include, 10 sacks of vandalized standard gauge rail pandrol clip irons, measuring scale, and hammer. The Police Boss further revealed that the  Minna Division of the  Command also arrested three persons with 220  (two hundred and twenty) pandrol clips. She gave the names of the suspects as Abdulrazak abubakar, Khamisu Abba, Abdulganiyu Abubakar. She said they  were arrested at kilometer 735, along Korota village, Maikunkele Beji section. “The Kafanchan Railway Police Division upon credible information also intercepted a truck loaded with vandalized railway iron rails tucked away in a bush at Unguwar Yawa village, Zango Kataf Local Government, Kaduna State. “The truck with registration number BCH-933 XA belonging to Dangote Cement Company was loaded with 96 Pieces of standard gauge rail irons. “One suspect has been arrested in connection to the incident, while investigations have been heightened to apprehend other accomplices at large. “In Abeokuta, at Alagada village axis, two men, Idowu Abiodun and David Titus, both 24 years old were apprehended by men of the Abeokuta division, while vandalizing rail tracks upon an information by a member of the village. “Railway pandrol clips were recovered from the suspects as exhibits. “The suspects have however been charged to court.” CP  Longe  stressed on the importance of Citizen-Police Partnership and Community Policing in  securing of lives and properties in the Country. She vowed  that no stone would  be left unturned in the war against Railway vandalism, as perpetrators arrested will be made to face the wrath of the law to its fullest.