LAGOS – The worsening condition of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway has continued to draw flaks and condemnation from motorists and computers alike with pleas to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to find a lasting solution to the ever increasing accidents on the road. Daily Independent investigations revealed that apart from the traffic gridlock being experienced on the very bad portion of the road, accidents have become a daily occurrence on the road. Just last Saturday,16th July, a near fatal accident was recorded on the road when two heavy duty trucks fell on the very bad portion of the road at Kola Bus Stop, with the containers falling off the vehicles. An eye witness told Daily Independent that what prevented a fatality, was that there were no Dallin cars plying the road at the time the accident happened. But, a man who identified himself as Wasiu Salami said that the incident that happened on Saturday,was just one of the several accidents which occur on the road on a daily basis. The road which had a facelift September last year had been abandoned by the contractors handling the project, Messrs Julius Brtger(Nig) Plz due to paucity of funds to further prosecute the project. Daily Independent further learnt that the axis from Cassi Bus Stop inwards Sango has been totally neglected by the contractors citing paucity of funds to continue the execution of the project. When Daily Independent sought to find out why the project is being delayed, the Director of Highways (South-West).Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Enginerr Adedamola Kuti, he said that the ministry was doing everything possible to ensure that the project was completed as scheduled. POLL According to him, the funds being used for the execution of the project, is from SUKUK, adding that the money released for the construction of roads by the Federal Government is expected to be spread among the six geo-political zones that make up the South West. Katie said that the Federal Government was not unmindful of the strategic importance of the road to neighbouring states like Odun and Too States, noting that the road would not be abandoned ‘no matter what ‘. Efforts to reach the acting Federal Controller of Works,Lagos,Engineer Oloyede proved abortive as she was said to be on her annual vacation.