IBADAN – In his efforts to ensure the safety of lives and properties before, during and after the Eid-El-Kabir Celebrations, Oyo State Commissioner of Police, CP. Adebowale Williams has ordered the deployment of gallant officers of the Command to recreational, and worship centres as well as various security interest areas in the state. The development was conveyed through a press statement issued and signed by the state Police Public Relations Officer, SP. Adewale Osifeso. A copy of the statement made available to journalists in Ibadan the Capital City of the state on Thursday stated as thus. The Federal Government has declared Monday, July 11th and Tuesday, July 12th, 2022 as Public holidays to mark this year’s Eid-El-Kabir Celebrations. In Oyo State, the Commissioner of Police, CP Adebowale Williams while wishing the Muslim Community Happy Festivities ahead, wishes to categorically assert that comprehensive and detailed security provisions under his constructive leadership have been emplaced to ensure the sustainability of the relative tranquillity status Oyo State is known for during and beyond the long holidays. In furtherance of the above, premised on the tenets of proactive and robust community policing drives in line with Standard best practices, Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers and other Heads of Departments have been mandated to organize, lead, supervise and ensure adequate and effective deployment of personnel to various areas of security interest throughout the State. In addition to the above, viable intelligence networks have been strategically established among relevant sister agencies to beam the spotlight on Recreational centres, Media houses, Educational institutions, Places of worship, public spaces and other Critical Infrastructures in the State. The citizenry will also experience confidence-building intensive patrols around public spaces, coordinated stop and search activities, high octane visibility patrols on highways and sequenced convoy patrols with relevant security agencies across the length and breadth of the State. -Advertisement- POLL So also, the Command’s Monitoring Unit and X-squad have been marshalled to ensure the sanity of the officers and men as they discharge their lawful duties in compliance with all standard operational procedures. In the event of a distress call or dissemination of useful information, citizens are advised to call the Police Control Room Numbers, 08081768614, 07055495413 and 615 (toll-free) from Oyo State Security Trust Fund. The NPF “rescue me” app is also available for free download on both Android and Apple IOS, for Android and I phone users respectively.