All is now set for the inauguration of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nige­ria (PFN) Chairman, Ogun State Chapter, Apostle David A.B. Otaru, who was recently re-elected and re­turned unopposed. Otaru whose very first term of four years in office expired July19, 2022 was re-elected by the Advisory Council of Ogun State PFN. The Council is the electoral umpire of the Christian association. Addressing news reporters on his forthcoming inauguration cere­mony, the distinguished man-of-God said, “My second term mandate is a reward for hard work and at the same time, a call to do more.” The amiable and enterprising religious leader is the General Overseer, “SIGN ‘‘N’’ WONDERS” Church of God, Antioch Assembly, Sagamu, and President-Blood Ban­ner Ministries. He is now the 8th Chairman of Ogun State PFN since inception of the Chapter. He disclosed that he was elected by the Advisory Council for per­forming excellently in his first term especially, leading the state PFN with integrity of heart as well as being found extremely worthy of taking the religious body to greater heights at cutting-edge. Otaru frankly noted that the council truly observed with satis­faction, his leadership responsive­ness to the needs of members and his cordial relationship with PFN both in the state and national which according to him was also key to his re-election. Emphasising his achievements further, he pointed out that the Coun­cil was particularly stunned by the huge efforts he made in acquiring land and constructing a legacy secre­tariat for state PFN located at Kobape, alongSagamu-AbeokutaExpressway which he strongly believed equally earned him their vote of confidence. The inauguration ceremony which has been properly arranged to be colourful and befitting of a number one Pentecostal man in Ogun State will hold 28th July, 2022 at the new legacy state secretari­at, kobape as from 10:00 a.m. One major activity among others that would shake and light up the atmo­sphere at the event would be joyful and soul-winning praise worship while thanks-giving service holds 1st August, 2022 at “SIGN ”N” WON­DERS” Church of God, Antioch Assembly, GRA Quarters, Sagamu.