KANO – Dr Yunusa Adamu Dangwani, a Chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday described as “mischievous” calls from a certain quarter on the National Chairman of the party, Dr Iyochia Ayu to resign. Adamu Dangwani who spoke in Kano against the backdrop of the position by the Shehu Sagagi leadership of the party that aligned itself with the call alleged that Mr Sagagi is being used to create confusion in the party. The former Chief of staff to Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso explained that “In dancing to the tunes of anti PDP forces both within and without the PDP, called for the resignation of the PDP National chairman Dr Iyochia Ayu. He alleged that, Dr Iyochia Ayu promised to step aside and allow a national chairman from southern Nigeria once a presidential candidate emerges from the north.” Dr. Dangwani said “To set the record straight, Dr Ayu never made such a promise. What he said after he was jointly nominated for the National chairmanship – after some engagements by senior party stakeholders from the three zones from the north, was that, he will step aside as National chairman to allow for a chairman of southern extraction once a northern presidential candidate emerges and wins the presidential election. It is instructive that sagagi was one among 5 leaders from kano state present at that occasion.” The former governorship aspirant stressed that “As a Democratic Party, PDP has its respected internal mechanism of resolving issues like the one Shehu Sagagi raise. “ He however maintained that “There is a precedence in this matter. In 2006/07, our party was led by Sen Ahmadu Ali as National chairman like Dr Ayu, Sen Ali is from the north Central while President Y’ar Adua emerged as the presidential candidate of the party. He was from the north west zone. Interestingly it was the Sen Ahmadu Ali NWC that led the Y’ar Adua/Jonathan presidential campaign up to the point of election, inauguration of the new president and formation of the new federal government. “ It was months after the Y’ar Adua PDP Federal Government was firmly in place, that the Ahmadu Ali led NWC voluntarily resigned to allow for new leadership to emerge at a Special National Convention. That was when Prince Vincent Ogbulafor became the National Chairman, Abubakar Kawu Baraja – National Secretary, among others”, Dangwani revealed. He therefore called on the National Working Committee to immediately invoke the relevant provisions of the party constitution 2017 As Amended, on Shehu Wada Sagagi. -Advertisement- POLL The estranged Kwankwaso godson declared that “We specifically recommend putting him through the party constitution by suspending SHEHU Sagagi immediately and directing him to appear before the National Disciplinary Committee to show course why he should not be punished for bringing the party into disrepute.”