Following the endorsement of Senator Kashim Shettima as running mate for the APC Presidential candidate, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Northeast Youth Stakeholders Forum have expressed appreciation and support to deliver massive votes in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The Chairman of the Forum, Comrade Haruna Sardauna announced today while addressing Journalists on the development. His words: “It is my humble honour and privilege to address you this evening on the latest progress made by our dear progressive party, the APC for answering our call by amicably producing the Vice Presidential Candidate from the Northeast region, His Excellency Senator Kashim Shettima”. According to him ” we are indeed grateful and wish to on behalf of the leadership of Northeast APC Youth Stakeholders Forum appreciate and most sincerely thank the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Muhammad Buhari, APC National Chairman Senator Abdullahi Adamu, leadership of the Progressive Governors Forum and APC presidential flags bearer, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu for answering the call of Northeast Youth by graciously giving slot of Vice President to Northeast region to one of the respected personality, Senator Kashim Shettima. He is a loyal, intelligent, unifier, peace-loving grassroot politician endowed with all the qualities of leadership. My address will not be complete without thanking APC stakeholders from North-West and North-Central for their solidarity and continued support which enabled our success, we’re proud of you”. He further disclosed that”It could be recalled that on 13th of June, 2022, we organized an International Press Conference here in Abuja, where we agitated for the office of the Vice President be allocated to the Northeast region and now granted. Also in appreciation and total Gratitude to the prompt response, accepting and considering our demand, we remain indebted to Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu the presidential flag bearer of this great party and the entire leadership and APC stakeholders”. Sardauna assured that “the Northeast APC Youth stakeholders forum, and the entire leadership, members of the northeast card carriers are totally committed to bring in all their political arsenals to make sure APC emerges victorious in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, inshaa Allah”. “The emergence of the PDP Presidential Candidate from the Northeast region will never be a threat to us nor be relevant for victory. The APC youths here are united and always ready to promote the Tinubu/Shettima presidential drive. We shall take our campaigns house to house, ward by ward and organize a sensitization programme on voters right and power and why APC should remain relevant for continuity and consolidation and more”. “For Northeast to Support APC in 2023 Election is a payback, because APC has drastically improved the security situation of the region, people are no longer displaced but enjoying their resettlement to their various communities, people are enjoying freedom. Inshallah APC will win all electoral positions in the forthcoming general elections with our dear father His Excellency, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the brand new President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023”. POLL “My address will not be complete without showing our appreciation to the press who have always been partners of progress, especially in the promotion of democracy in our dear country, Nigeria”.