ABUJA – The African Development Bank has announced the appointment of Mr. Ifechukwude Emmanuel Ezinwa as Acting Director, Human Resources Operations, Recruitment and Client Services Department. Before his new appointment, the Nigerian-born Ezinwa, was the Manager, Human Resources, Client Relations and Staff Engagement Division in the Human Resources Operations, Recruitment and Client Services Department of the People and Talent Management Complex of the bank. As Division Manager for Client Relations and Staff Engagement, a position he occupied since January 2021, Ezinwa has been leading the HR Business Partners, Talent Acquisition as well as the Onboarding and Employee Engagement teams in the implementation of a series of people management initiatives and reforms, as an integral part of People Strategy implementation plan. This include the e-recruitment, e-onboarding, New Managers onboarding, Strategic Staffing, the Talent Councils and Job family Committees among other initiatives and reforms. A statement issued by the bank indicated that the appointment took effect from July 1. Mr. Ezinwa is a seasoned people management professional with diverse international experience across the private sector and multilateral development institutions. He joined the African Development Bank in 2017 as Lead HR Operations/Advisor with responsibility for facilitating the HR services delivery across the department and ensuring the implementation, follow up and monitoring of departmental objectives, work-plan and results delivery. Mr. Ezinwa was responsible for case management, compliance and the day to day relationship management with the internal recourse mechanism of the Bank, including the Staff Council. -Advertisement- POLL Additionally, he participated actively in the drafting and design of the people management aspects of the General Capital Increase (GCI). He was the task team manager for the comprehensive review of the Staff Regulations and Staff Rules, leading the engagement with the diverse internal and external stakeholders, to ensure the successful outcomes of the review, dissemination and implementation of the associated transformational initiatives. Commenting on his appointment, Mr. Ezinwa said: “I would like to thank President Akinwumi Adesina, for this appointment, which provides an opportunity to further continue to drive the on-going transformation of people and talent management in line with the Bank’s strategic business direction.” Reacting, the President of the African Development Bank Group, Dr. Adesina said: “I am pleased to appoint Ezinwa as Acting Director of the Human Resources Operations, Recruitment and Client Services Department in recognition of his solid knowledge and hands-on experience in people management.“I am very optimistic that he will provide the leadership that this critical function needs at the Bank, during this transition period.” Prior to joining the Bank, Ezinwa worked in the Human Resources’ Vice Presidency of the World Bank for 10 years successively as Regional Human Resources Business Partner between 2008 and 2012, and as Senior Regional Human Resources Business Partner, Africa Region from 2012 to 2017. “In this capacity, he delivered end to end people management services to client staff and managers across the entire value chain – strategic staffing, talent acquisition, performance and compensation management as well as coaching and mentoring. Mr. Ezinwa holds a Bachelors’ degree in French from the University of Benin, Nigeria and a Masters’ degree in International Law and Diplomacy from, Lagos State University. He has attended several development and certification programs including Lagos Business School and Wharton Business School. He is a certified Lean Six Sigma (Yellow Belt) practitioner, as well as Predictive Index (PI Eu- rope) Testing and Assessment Tool certified.