IBADAN – Oyo state police command Headquarters Eleyele Ibadan on Tuesday paraded some suspected murderers, armed robbers, kidnappers and fraudsters among others. The newly deployed Commissioner of Police, CP. Adebowale William in his maiden press briefing at the command promised that policing in the State under his watch will improve, stressing that he will build upon the robust foundation provided by his predecessor AIG Ngozi Onadeko to emplace a generally peaceful Oyo State where economic development and growth thrive. Names of the suspected murderers paraded at the command are Oyebamiji Moses aged 22; Afeez Akinpelu 36; Segun Joseph, 27; Dauda Adekunle, 30; Lukman Yisa, 31; Usman Salami, 26; Segun Akinade, 33; Adewale Olubode, 28 and Mosuru Jimoh aged 23. The suspects according to CP Adebowale were arrested in different hideouts over various murder cases. Speaking on the arrest of Segun Akinade (Principal Suspect) and his accomplices Adewale Olubode and Monsuru Jimoh, CP. Adebowale said on 9/6/2022 at about 2030hrs F/NO. 9578 TW GI Afolabi Abiola ‘m’ attached to Challenge Division reported at Challenge Division that while on duty at New Garage Round About, Ibadan, his colleague, one AP/NO. 16860 STW Oluniyi Bamidele ‘m’ contravened a Micra commercial vehicle for obstruction and immediately the driver learnt that he was to be taken to the station, he came down from the vehicle and pretended to have fainted.” “His action attracted other Micra drivers who joined him and attacked the Police Officers till one of them managed to escape, while his colleague who was unable to escape was mobbed. Immediately the DPO got the information, she mobilized and raced to the scene, where she met STW Oluniyi Bamidele ‘m’ lying down in the pool of his blood, he was rushed to LAD Hospital, Ibadan where he was confirmed dead by the Doctor on duty on arrival.” -Advertisement- POLL “Based on credible intelligence the registration Number of the vehicle of the principal suspect was gotten. Detectives swung into action and the suspects were arrested including the principal suspect one Akinade Segun who was contravened by the deceased and who raised the false alarm that led to the beating of the Traffic Wardens and eventual murder of the deceased STW Oluniyi Bamidele ‘m’.” “However, the suspects will be charged to Court at the conclusion of the investigation.” CP. Adebowale said. A Nissan Micra cars with Reg. No. OYO MAP 16 ZY was recovered from them as exhibit. Speaking on the arrest of some suspected armed robbers paraded also at the Command, CP. Adebowale said on 23rd June 2022, a case of Conspiracy and Armed Robbery was transferred from Ikoyi-Ile Police Divisional Headquarters. In furtherance to this, on 25th June, 2022 one Enos Noah ‘m’ was arrested and confessed to being an informant to a robbery syndicate led by his elder brother, one Shadrack Noah ‘m’ and one Opeyemi Wasiu ‘m’.” He noted that on 20th June 2022, the syndicate robbed one Atanda Taiwo ‘m’ in his residence at Iluju Village via Ikoyi-Ile where the sum of Ninety Nine Thousands Six Hundred Naira (N99,600.00) only, phones etc were carted away.Interestingly, Shadrack Noah ‘m’ and Opeyemi Wasiu ‘m’ were intercepted and arrested by men from Ogun State Police Command at Mowe area, Lagos Expressway while fleeing with two laptops, one Rolex wrist watch, phones and accessories, and the Sum of One Hundred and Twenty Thousand Naira (N120,000.00) only, among others.Investigation is intensified. Exhibits recovered from the suspects are Two(2) Laptops, Thirteen (13) Mobile Phones, Two (2) Cutlasses, Phones Accessories, Digital Camera, Clothes, The sum of One Hundred and Twenty Thousand Naira only (N120,000) Some of the suspects interviewed confessed their Involvements in the crimes they were arrested for.