As part of events honouring the UN World Youth Skills Day, the non-governmental organisation, Helpline Foundation for the Needy Abuja organized vocational skill acquisition for 25 Abuja natives in bag-making and fishery production. Mrs. Victoria Odeyemi, a bag maker with 17 years of experience, led the one-day training that took place on Thursday at the Diplomat’s Gardens and Park in Area 1 Garki Abuja. She urged young people to create their own possibilities rather than seeking white-collar employment, noting that leadership was one of the most lucrative enterprises in the world that could be carried out with little initial capital. Odeyemi also advised youths to acquire skills as it will help them to be independent. She lauded Helpline Foundation as a wonderful NGO which has been in the frontline in supporting vocational training of young and old persons. Earlier in her remarks, the President of Helpline Foundation, Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, said the objective of the World Youth Skills Day was to spread awareness about technical, and vocational education training, and the development of other skills relevant to both local and global economies. Ahmadu who was represented by Mr Mohammed Isa Mohammed noted that the day was set out to celebrate the strategic importance of equipping young people with skills for employment, decent work, and entrepreneurship, as well as the provision of the unique opportunity for dialogue between young people, technical and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions, firms, employers and policymakers. She identified youth unemployment as the most significant problem facing contemporary economies and societies in the world for developed and developing countries alike saying there had been upward trend in the number of youth not in employment, education, or training (NEET) which climbed to 273 million in 2021 above the 259 million young people who were classified as NEET in 2016. POLL Ahmadu said that in terms of percentage, the trend was slightly up from 21.7 per cent in 2015 to 22.4 per cent in 2020 which implied that the international target to reduce the NEET rate by 2020 would be missed. She tasked the participants to eschew vices and focus on building their lives for a better future saying the Helpline Foundation would provide them with experts in the field that will guide and make you become the best in the field. One of the participants, Usman Dalhatu Abubabar from Utata, AMAC, said he hoped to use the skill acquired at the training as a source of living where he can earn income that will improve his life and that of his family.