Two months after the inauguration by the state government, the Caretaker Committee of Ogbaru Main Market in Ogbaru Local Government Area of Anambra State has embarked on an aggressive revenue drive to the detriment of both the Traders and their customers from far and near. The excercise which has so far caused more harm than good, manifested its ugly head inform of the complaint as the victims count their losses as a result of the commando-style and Impunity with which the revenue collectors carried out the excercise. At the time of filing this report, is not yet clear whether the govt official and caretaker Committee of the market are aware of the aggressive revenue drive or not Sources said many traders and their customers have been beaten up to stupor while some lost their personal effects at the hands of revenue collectors who reminded them of governor Soludo’s directives that ban revenue collections. One of such, victims are a widow who was simply identified as mama Ifeoma their customer who came from Mbaitolu Ikedulu Imo State, was recently manhandled by the fierce revenue collectors for allegedly refusing to pay the double amount demanded from her by the revenue collectors in the Market. According to an eyewitness, who simply gave herself as Comfort told Newsmen that the victim after paying a certain amount of revenue money to the collectors beside the park inside the market, demanded another round of revenue money from her at another line inside the market, and all her efforts to explain to them fail into the deaf ear as they continued beaten her until she went into a coma and they confiscated some of her goods She said that the victim was later carried by some market women who came to Onitsha with her Another Eyewitness lamented that their violent method of revenue drive has become too unspeakable, that most of the victims have vowed to stop coming to Ogbaru Relief Market to patronise them henceforth. POLL When contacted, the chairman of the caretaker Committee David Obidike who simple denied the allegations, declined to confirm whether he was aware of the existence of such revenue collectors in the Market or not. When contacted, the State Commissioner for the Trade and commerce Dr Obinna Ngaonadi, told Newsmen on the phone that he will investigate the matter. Reacting to the development, the Members Board of Trustees Ogbaru Relief Market, condemned in totality what they described as a show of shame going on in the Market in the name of revenue drive and called on authorities concerned to rise up and put such anomalies to a stop. According to the six-member Board of trustees Messers Sam Mendu, Ernest Nwaosu, Ekwe Macaulay, Eugene Nwanekezie, Emma Nwadibia and Francis Nwadiyi the continuous and incessant collections of Barrow tolls, Storage fees, Vehicle tolls and other tolls in the market have drastically reduced Customers patronages as those who refused to comply will be beaten up or have their Goods ceased. The Trustees who lamented that this aggressive revenue drive started since the Advent of the present caretaker Committee in the Market, expressed dismay over such an ugly act and wondered why the Caretaker Committee Members insisted on Governor’s order in collecting Barrow tolls and Vehicles tolls in Ogbaru Relief Market, claiming that Commissioner for Commerce, Hon. Obinna Ngaonadi directed them to do the toll collection. Some Traders in the Market who bare their minds on this ugly development while interacting with Newsmen lamented that their Goods and Ware are in jeopardy as they no longer do the normal business adding that the vehicles who convey their Goods find it difficult to offload Goods inside the market due to heavy tolls being collected by the new Caretaker Committee Members in the Market. They called on the State Governor Prof Charles Soludo to come to be their aid and save the Traders from the calamity that was about to fall on them as the market is no longer safe and conducive for business to thrive since when you talk about the ills on toll collection, you received hard beaten. Ogbaru Relief Market is in disarray as this crisis continues without being solved, we may lose our Goods, they said.