A former majority leader in Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Joseph Nwobashi said he has petitioned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and the national leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) on the grand plot by certain individuals to deny him the party’s House of Representatives ticket for Ezza North/Ishielu Federal constituency which he duly won during primaries. Nwobashi who briefed Journalists in Abakaliki on Monday alleged that the members representing Ezza North/Ishielu Federal constituency, Hon Anayo Edwin Nwonu were hellbent on snatching the ticket from him. He alleged that Hon. Nwonu was scheming to take away his ticket from him, so he would recontest for House of Representatives on the platform of APGA, having failed his governorship bid in the PDP. He vowed to challenge the matter in court if his name is substituted with any other person’s name, ahead of the election. Nwobashi said: “The primary election for House of Representatives in APGA was conducted on 27th May 2022 in Ebonyi State and I won the ticket to represent Ezza North/Ishielu federal constituency. “Our names were sent to the national secretariat of our party after the primaries and certificates of returns have been issued to all of us that won in Ebonyi State. “Recently, I have been receiving a lot of pressure from someone who wants me to step down for him. I have also been receiving some pressure from his supporters. But I want to make it public that I have not stepped down for anyone and have no intention to step down for anyone. “I want to assure my supporters to remain calm and law-abiding, that my ticket is intact and I’m fully in the race. So, I have notified the INEC and other relevant agencies to take note, that should there be any notice to them that I have withdrawn, they should disregard it.” POLL Reacting in a telephone interview, the Member representing Ezza North/Ishielu Federal constituency, Hon Edwin Nwonu, debunked the allegations and cautioned Mr Nwobashi to stop maligning his name. Nwonu popularly known as Anatex urged Mr Nwobashi to desist from linking him with whatever problem he has with his party. He said the allegation by Mr Nwobashi that he was plotting to snatch his ticket was baseless as neither the constitution nor the Electoral Act gave him such powers Asked about his membership status in APGA, Nwonu simply said alot of parties had been lobbying him to join them due to his goodwill but was yet to make his mind on any. Nwonu said: “The point here is that I don’t know why someone will derive joy in maligning my name. If Nwobashi has a problem with his party, he should go and sort it out himself and stop mentioning my name. “Other political parties not only APGA are approaching me to join them. But it’s for me to decide what I want to do? Not people talking about what they do not know. Like I said before, no person can take a ticket to a political party on his own. “The ticket of a political party is a decision of the party. Like this one, Mr Nwobashi is saying that Anatex wants to collect his ticket, but I don’t have the power to do so. The Constitution and the Electoral Act do not allow me to do that, but he is just making noise, talking about what he does not know. He is talking like an illiterate. Electoral Act doesn’t allow me to do that. Every party process depends on the political party, not me. I don’t know why he should he mentioning my name. And like what he said that I have been threatening him, I have not seen Nwobashi for the past two years. “I have not called him on phone. Let him show you, people, the evidence that I called him on phone. I have not discussed anything with Nwobashi about any ticket or no ticket. So, he should leave me alone. “Finally, I know their problem, their problem is my popularity. Their problem is why must Anatex be rising this way. But it’s not my fault, it’s my goodwill and God. They are afraid of Anatex coming on board, not only he is doing that. The summary is that I’m a good market that every political party wants to buy.”