Some passengers on Air Peace’s second flight to its recently launched Guangzhou destination from Lagos have applauded the airline on its commencement of flight operations to the Asian country. The passengers, in an interview shortly before their Guangzhou flight, departed on Wednesday, from the new international terminal in Lagos, expressed delight that a Nigerian airline could now operate a scheduled flight to China, a development that has taken off the connectivity burden, which the flying public faced on the route. Air Peace commenced a weekly direct flight service from its base in Lagos on July 20, 2022 with plans to increase it in the future. A statement by Mr. Stanley Olisa, the spokesman of the airline said that Mr. Clark Wang, one of the Chinese nationals on the flight, stressed that the Chinese community was excited over the launch. According to him, the operations signalled a great stride in strengthening the commercial ties between Nigeria and China. He noted that the flight connectivity between both nations would foster development and boost both economies. Wang also applauded the Air Peace management for the strategic decision to make a foray into the route. Another passenger, Mr. Emmanuel Okereke, expressed happiness over the China launch and felicitated with Air Peace. POLL He implored the airline to sustain the feat and be consistent in providing best-in-class services. He called on Allen Onyema, the Chairman of Air Peace, to ensure sustenance of this new route and extend the wings of the airline to more cities. Similarly, Timothy Ose, another passenger on board the service, said he flies Air Peace to Dubai and when he learnt of the new China route, he was delighted. He said the expansion into Asia was a huge respite to Nigerians, especially those who frequent the China destination, while also congratulating Onyema, Air Peace launched its China destination, which is its third international route, on July 13, 2022, with a load factor of 240 passengers. The airline disclosed that it had India and Israel in the works and reiterated its commitment to continually ease the burden of air travel for Nigerians and, by extension, Africans. According to Oluwatoyin Olajide, the Chief Operating Officer, Air Peace, the airline would continue to grow its route network as well as modernise the fleet strategically.