LAGOS  – The Mission to Seafarers (MTS), Lagos has gone into partnership with the Nigerian Maritime Law Association (NMLA), to protect and bail seafarers who may be arrested and victimised in Nigeria, over infractions or crimes committed by their ship owners. Adebayo Babatunde Sarumi, Chairman of the Management Committee, MTS Lagos, who highlighted this during the 2022 Annual Sea Sunday Service, which took place at Our Saviours Church, TBS, Lagos, said it was part of an enhanced effort to demonstrate gratitude to seafarers for their invaluable contributions to global trade. Chief Sarumi, a former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, also stated that the Mission to Seafarers, Lagos would also, significantly improve the Seafarers Centre in Apapa, Lagos. He indicated that MTS’s partnership with the NMLA to provide legal representation, became imperative now that rising global statistics show many vessels are getting arrested and seafarers are increasingly detained, over crimes or offences by the vessel owners Speaking at an event themed; “Calming the Storm at Home, In Port, and At Sea,” Sarumi stressed the need for more Stakeholders’ partnership for a vibrant MTS centre, equipped with modern facilities and the requisite personnel to attend to seafarers. “The seafarer is a worker that the world is yet to truly understand his significance. “These are workers who carry everything imported, that citizens of any nation utilise. “When we were younger, the Seafarers’ Centre in Apapa was a beehive of activities. POLL “When seafarers come to Lagos ports, we bring them to that Apapa Centre to care for them. “After spending 6 -10 weeks on the waters, when seafarers come to the shores of a nation that is not their home, it’s only befitting that they have a place where they are cared for psychologically, spiritually and physically. “There is no better place to go than an establishment set up by a Christian organization which is what MTS stands for,” Sarumi said. He encouraged the church and other well-meaning Nigerians to collaborate with MTS Lagos to make seafarers that come to the nation’s shores realize that the work they put in is truly appreciated. In his sermon, the Venerable Tunde Oduwole identified seafarers as one of the most essential workers in the world and admonished the Church members and Nigerians to demonstrate their love for God by extending monetary and other forms of support to the MTS Lagos. Oduwole also, noted that in spite of the Russia-Ukraine war, COVID-19 pandemic, tsunamis, and other global crises, seafarers have continued to sacrifice comfort and time with their families in a bid to ensure international trade continues. “Seafarers have to deal with several storms in the cause of their work. The storms in recent times could be the COVID-19 pandemic, tsunamis, unemployment, political problems, troubles in their marriages and difficulties in managing homes amid spending several months away from their families yearly. “So for seafarers who play this crucial role for the globe at the expense of quality time with their families, the Sea Sunday is a time to remember seafarers and those who labour to care for them. We should give thanks for the work they do and support them through charitable donations. Our celebration should bring hope and transformation into the lives of seafarers and their families,” Oduwole said. A man of God, Oduwole stressed that the over 1.5million seafarers who risk their lives every day deserve a Centre and the right human personnel to care for their mental and psychological needs as well as spiritual needs. He advised corporate organizations to partner with MTS as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to cater for the welfare of seafarers with wifi provision and sufficient data to communicate with their families. Also speaking, Capt. Emmanuel Ebubeogu recalled his experience in seafaring and the numerous occasions where the care and support availed him by MTS in Italy, Portugal and other nations encouraged him to continue the risky venture of seafaring. His words: “I’m a beneficiary of the numerous activities of MTS and I’ll like to tell you about some ordeals. In 1991, we carried wheat from Montreal in Canada to Port-au-Prince in Haiti. During our voyage, we came across a terrible storm around Bermuda Island and for three days we couldn’t eat. Everyone had to go for his bible because the ship was rolling 45 degrees on either side. When we arrived in Port-au- Prince, we had lost one lifeboat and we were seriously battered.