How tidy is Sino-Nigeria relations? SIAKA MOMOH, who has a burning passion for Nigeria-China relations, dug into the archives and continues his robust chronicling of the relations in question today. Siaka is a student of Mass Media as well as International Relations and Strategy. Strengthening Relationship China shared with these developing nations a sense of humiliation, the urge to restore dignity and a determination to take control of its own destiny. It will be recalled that Premier Chou Enlai made a tour of 10 Africa states between December 1963 and February 1964 and asserted that “revolutionary prospects are excellent throughout the African continent”. Global international relations watchers must have noticed that throughout the 1990s China sought to strengthen its relations with individual African countries ranging from political, economic, trade and military, to co-operation on multilateral issues. An emphasis was clearly put on oil-producing countries and those with growing economies. Nigeria comes in strongly here. There were an unusually high number of visits by high-level government and military officials took place in both directions. The West tended to regard with suspicion and distrust any links between Africa and the socialist world. Russians did too. Economic Development But with the death of Chairman Mao and rise of Deng Xiaoping , China reassessed its tactics and began putting more emphasis on its economic development. Its foreign policy emphasized the principles of sovereignty, opposition to hegemony and self-reliance, in tandem with calls for a new international economic order. These calls for a new economic order found sympathy on the continent and many African leaders adopted a similar discourse at international fora. However, in the late 1970s early 1980s, Sino-Africa relations experienced their lowest, said Muekaila. Political relations China and African countries enjoy close political relations and frequent high level exchanges. Since 1997, nearly 30 heads of state or heads of government from African countries have visited China . Both sides reached broad consensus on developing comprehensive cooperative Sino-African relations of long-term stability oriented towards the 21st century. There are also extensive exchanges between Chinese and African parliaments and parties. -Advertisement- POLL Both sides strengthen consultation, support each other in international affairs, especially on a series of major issues such as human rights, safeguard the legitimate rights of developing countries and make efforts to promote the establishment of a new just and rational international political and economic order. African countries support China ‘s great course of unification. Most African countries firmly adhere to the One China Policy Aids China has provided great amount of unselfish aide to African countries since its independence to help it develop national economy and promote social development, which yielded good results and won appraise of African countries and people. In recent years, Sino-African exchanges and cooperation in economy and trade continue to develop in an in-depth manner. The Chinese government actively explores new ways, new channels and new areas in Sino-African economic and trade cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. While continuing to provide possible economic assistance without any political conditions attached, China actively encourages and supports the establishment of direct links between the Chinese and African companies and enterprises in their cooperation of mutual benefit, including joint venture cooperation on projects of Chinese aide. In accordance with international practice, the Chinese government sets up loans on favourable terms with government subsidy to support extra-territory-processing trade to expand the economic benefits of government assistance and enlarge the scale of bilateral cooperation. Human resources development This practice has achieved initial success. In 1999, the total Sino-African trade volume reached US$6.5billion. Sino-African cooperation in many fields such as education, healthcare, and culture has shown good momentum for development. Both sides strengthen cooperation in human resources development. Besides the annual scholarship for African countries on various subjects, the Chinese government holds various forms of research and training courses to help African countries train professional talents. The Sino-African economic management research courses, the Senior African Diplomats Group and the African middle-aged and young diplomats training course have been run for five times each. The Chinese doctors and teachers are broadly welcomed by African countries and peoples. Interest in Natural Resources Relations between Africa and China have increased over the years and became more dominated by China’s economic interests. With an annual growth rate of 8-9 per cent, the Chinese economy expanded enormously, and accessing natural resources became a priority. China had to broaden its horizons. Africa, with all its seemingly unlimited natural resources, was an ideal partner. In addition, the African continent as a whole was a potential market for China’s low-value manufactured commodities. Exports from Africa to China are based on natural resources: oil is the most important resource. About 25 per cent of Chinese oil imports are from Africa, with its major sources being in Sudan, Angola, Nigeria and Chad. Other important resources are cotton and timber. Timber is however being exported illegally to China. Agriculture Furthermore, China is investing in the agricultural sector because the land available for agriculture in China is decreasing as its population increases. African imports from China are primarily low-value commodities to countries with large populations, for example, South Africa, Nigeria, Algeria and Egypt. Current trade relations between China and Africa trigger large investments by Chinese companies in Africa with construction projects in infrastructure development, buildings and factories. Trade and aid relations Sino-African relations – trade and aid relations have implications for Africa. One advantage is the increased room for maneuver for African states now that they are no longer totally dependent on the West. In addition, increasing oil production has boosted the revenue of African states. On the other hand, exports of textiles and household utensils from China dominate the African market and, as a consequence, African factories have had to close. China: Africa’s third biggest trading partner China is Africa’s third biggest trading partner, after the United States and France. China is fast becoming a dominant player in Africa . However, Africa is less important for China . In spite of increased oil exports from Africa, the continent’s total trade with China amounts to only two per cent of its international trade. What stands out is that increasingly the West seeks to withstand economic competition from China in Africa by shifting as it were the encounter to an ethical field of human rights, corruption and good, governance which economic relations should respect in all circumstances. Li Anshan noted that Chinese investment is breaking the hold the West has had over trade between Africa and the world. True statement, but is it for free? Definitely not. To be continued next week Thursday.