Hajia Kikelomo Olarinde, the Chief Executive Officer of Kiki’s Beauty Supply & Fabrics, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the impact of harsh business environment in the country and why entrepreneurs are desirous to have political leaders who are concerned about the state of the economy to take over leadership position in 2023, among other issues. Excerpts: How is Kiki’s Beauty Supply and Fabrics coping in the harsh business environment? This year in Nigeria, businesses have experienced a lot of setbacks as never before. The dollar has risen to an all-time high and it has caused a lull in our business. The customers are complaining and our profit has dropped. It is so because you need to sell and if you want to maintain the same percentage of the margin before this period, you will go out of business because nobody will buy from you. Let me give you an example, I deal mainly in ankara and aso-oke. We used to buy a bale of ankara for N170,000 or N180,000 and we were selling six yards for N2,000 or N2,500 but we cannot sell at that price anymore because of the cost of the product. Remember that it is from the little margin that we pay rents. My rent in Bolade Oshodi is N3 million per annum. Apart from rent, you will pay your staff and power your generating set with fuel. There is an epileptic power supply and so you must buy fuel to power your generator. It is unbelievable that I spend as much as N2,000 every day to power the generator. We don’t know what to do. POLL We don’t know what this country is turning into and it is unfortunate that the political leaders are not worried about what is happening to businesses in Nigeria. A lot of people are closing their shops. How can you be in business and instead of increasing your capital you are even eating into your capital because the cost of doing business in Nigeria is increasing every day. We buy fuel in black market now that there is scarcity. We buy as high as N300 per litre. We are praying for a change of government in Nigeria and in Lagos State. We are praying that Olajide Adediran, that is Jandor, will take over in 2023. God can use him to hear our cries and help us. We are really facing a very difficult time now. Customer loyalty built over the years has sustained my business in this difficult time. We need the government to play its role to ensure that businesses don’t keep dying in Nigeria. You spoke about the possibility of Jandor emerging governor of Lagos State in 2023; do you think that with Funke Akindele as his deputy, and as a woman, your condition will improve for the better? We know that if they win the election in 2023, things will be better. We know that her emergence as the deputy governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State will help the party to win because she has her crowd already. She is loved by the people and she has a lot of admirers, we are counting on that for us to win the election. We are happy and we welcome her. We appreciate the PDP for being a gender friendly party and again they are young people. We hope to see a lot of changes; we want things to improve generally for everyone. We want to see things change for the good of Lagosians. Funke is a mother, and you know how mothers behave, they feel for their children. She will relate with Lagos people in that manner too. Don’t you think that it will be difficult to beat the incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu? One thing that I will let you understand is that it is God that gives power. It is God that has kept them there too and God can decide to change them. I believe strongly that the time has come for a change of government. The All Progressives Congress is no longer popular in Lagos State. The party has gone down already. Look at the endsars, you can see what they did during the endsars. We lost some of our children and up till today nothing has been done or said about it. Do they expect us to be happy with that government? They don’t have a conscience. They are only concerned about themselves. When Asiwaju Tinubu was asked his view about the endsars, he responded that they warned them. The state belongs to all of us and not a single individual. Protests are done all over the world and not only in Nigeria.. When people are not happy with the way things are done, they have a right to go on a peaceful protest. People cannot be treated badly and they will be denied opportunity to express their grievances, it is injustice. You can relate to what we are facing as business people. People have been complaining about the harsh economic environment under which we do our business, but nobody seems to be concerned about us. Customers are not coming to buy because they don’t have the purchasing power and that in turn affects us the sellers. If you buy something, you may end up selling that product for less than N200 profit as we experience in this ankara fabric business. It will shock you to know that we can sell six yards ankara with just N200 profit. I buy my products locally, not with forex but the business is not spared by forex challenges, it is affected just like the imported goods. We need a government that will be sensitive to the pains that the citizens are passing through. What is your association doing to help you, especially to lessen the burden of taxation since you are already spending so much on fuel and other costs? It would have been possible but fur selfish people who are working to help those in government at the detriment of their members in the market. Some of our members, the market women leaders (Iya lojas) are connected to Tinubu, they are connected to the Iya loja general, so they cannot plan or assist anyone because of what they gain from these people. The power has been handed over to one person and that power intoxicates. This act of selfishness is one of the challenges that we have. It is not only in this market, it is everywhere. You can see that this problem is affecting us in this place and we have resigned to fate. We are praying to God to give us a new governor who will bring positive change to everyone resident in Lagos State irrespective of political, religious or ethnic afflictions. I know that if Jandor takes over leadership of Lagos State things will not remain like this. He cannot hijack the state to himself and cronies. What exactly do you expect Jandor to do for you if he becomes the governor of Lagos State? He will do so much for us. We will fix our roads; he will build the health care system. He will rid the markets of the people who are taxing us, not minding if we are making money or not. There will be sanity in Lagos State that is why we are praying for him to come on board. It is God that can do it and we trust him to do it for us.