 AKURE – Students of the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Ondo State on Friday stormed the Governor’s Office of Amotekun at Alag­baka, Akure, protesting the killing of one of their mates allegedly by an operative of the Amotekun Corps in Owo. The deceased student, identified as Folarera Ade­mola, an ND1 student of Sci­ence Laboratory Technology Department of the polytech­nic, was said to have been al­legedly killed by operatives of Amotekun Corps on Monday, June 27, 2022, at his residence. Speaking on behalf of the protesting students, the Stu­dents’ Union President, Olo­runda Oluwafemi, gave the state government a 24-hour ul­timatum to hand over the said officer to the Nigeria Police for proper prosecution. They also demanded that the state government takes responsibility for the burial of the deceased and compensate his family. The students’ leader al­leged that an officer of the Amotekun shot the victim dead in front of his parent’s residence. Reacting to the allegation, the state Commander of Amotekun, Otunba Adetunji Adeleye, in a statement made available to newsmen in Ak­ure, the state capital, said the Corps received with dismay and sadness the news about the death of a student of the institution. He promised that the com­mand would carry out a thor­ough investigation to reveal real cause of the death of the deceased. POLL The Governor’s Special Ad­viser (Security Matters) said in the statement that “It is neces­sary for the Corps to explain to the public what transpired few days ago that led to the un­fortunate death of the student. “In its avowed determina­tion to ensure that Ondo State is rid of criminal elements, the state Amotekun Corps is investigating the case of a syndicate that specializes in attacking Okada riders with dangerous weapons and dis­possessing them of their mo­torcycles in the process. “Luck however ran out of one of members of the syn­dicate, who was given a hot chase into a building in Owo by men of the Amotekun Corps where other members of the gang were met, 15 men in the building, seven out of the men stack naked inside the room filled with smoke. And four Okadas were also found inside the bedroom. “After introducing them­selves to the men, the men struggled to disarm the oper­ative who raised the alarm to attract the other two outside. “In an attempt to appre­hend the suspect, they swoop on men of the Corps, trying to disarm them and in the course of the struggle, one of their rif­fles triggered off and hit one of the suspects and an Amotekun officer. “At that instance, none of them told Amotekun officers that they were students. “Our men eventually over­powered the suspects, arrested and took them to the Corps Of­fice in Owo where they were detained while investigation was continuing.” According to the Corps commander, the incident oc­curred on 27th and 28th of June, 2022. He added that “He was released to him on health ground, promising to return him to the corps custody so as to continue the investigation. “The suspect left our facil­ity on same day, 11 days after the incident to get first aid treatment with the promise to return in continuation of the investigation. “Surprisingly, the news of the dead injured suspect’s fil­tered yesterday after 11 days the incident occurred.”