The vehement resolve of Nigerians to rescue their only country from inevitable collapse is becoming more evident that upon the synergy within Labour Party, her presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi and his running mate, Sen. Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed, lies the hope that their labours shall never “die in vain”, but will bear fruits of triumph. This much is the reasoned conclusion of Hon. Uche Harris Okonkwo, a dedicated youth advocate, who inspires them to assert their significant strength in the mainstream of our political leadership and compel competence and capacity as defining recruitment criteria. Okonkwo who also is the Labour Party candidate for Idemili North and South Federal Constituency of Anambra State was reacting to the emergence of Sen. Yusuf Datti Ahmed, as the vice presidential candidate of their standard bearer, Mr Peter Obi. He stated, “Nothing could have been more wholesome than the convergence of these two selfless minds with consuming passion, to lead Nigerians most determined outrage against terrible misgovernment and dangerous ineptitude”, adding that “to snatch our country back from an unperturbed cluelessness, is a duty to avert a grim calamity.” It is a timely relief to our declining tribe of optimists in a better Nigeria, that citizens fire to cast aside darkness, which found resonance upon the classic integrity of Peter Obi and is now replicated on the elastic depth of Dr Yusuf Baba Ahmed. He continued, the cheerful unveiling of Sen.Dr Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed as his running mate, Peter Gregory Obi, has again spoken boldly and reassuringly that Nigeria’s rescue is indeed a mission “POssible and a vision confidently YUSful”. Nigerians are stocking up the courage that this fight is theirs to win, because “a Nigeria held down so miserably by her unforgiving transaction leaders, is a nation we must all stand up to rescue and liberate”. I’m so happy that such a blaze of awareness has aggregated to say loudly, that enough is enough, for those that have raped and ruined our country, yet are too arrogant to excuse themselves. For youths, in particular, this is a happy opportunity to enable a new dawn, because their awakened energies running on the easily available ‘fuel of freedom’ as citizens, do not depend on a festering subsidy of corruption to keep momentum or sustain traction. Hon. Uche Okonkwo who was effectively mobilized and adopted by Youth Expressions for Service, YES, a grassroot leadership initiative for Change and Impact, said he will leverage such humbling generosity, to expand his known empowerment Foundation outreach, Let’s Get Empowered Today, as a national vehicle for broader development. POLL The private sector industry captain, and Executive Director of the Top wide Group, went professional to declare prospective dividends to Nigerians when they invest their votes in Labour Party. He said such immediate returns will include, that effective May 29, 2023, our people will upgrade to the taste of leadership from Aso Rock, ever cooked on truth, trust, hope and faith, to serve them justice, security, peace and cohesion, through a development turn around a paradigm that is very critical and compulsory”. Already, the vibes are eloquent from our captive ringing tunes of “moving this country from consumption to production” to replacing those who have “privatized our profits but socialized our losses” that has set off a national movement of “YUSful OBIdients”, proclaiming hope for their country sufficiently blessed, yet so tragically mismanaged. You can bet me on this or save it in your treasure memory, that in Mr Peter Obi and Dr Yusuf Baba Ahmed, the kit for the revival surgery we need to recover from leadership impunities and criminal auctions of our patrimony, is so complete that other alternatives are entirely unnecessary except as repentant witnesses. Reacting to concerns about the hail of attacks from opposition quarters to the rising profile of his Party’s Presidential ticket, he remarked, that such unfortunate frenzy at spraying muds, rather than expanding debates on issues as Obi does, and searching for knowledge as is his norm, is their trade alarm that Nigerians should be at alert and prepared, to defend their choices if their wishes must prevail from from “dollar obsessed democrats”. It’s the sad reality of our power politics, where the law protects the offenders and leave the innocents to their own devices. The same as the wild ecosystem, where harmless breeds are always stalked by entitled hyenas and vicious cats to slay and feed fat, even if the whole herd should perish. Regrettably, such betrayal of contempt for the civil campaign is standard morality for those that “took us from top to bottom” still uncomfortable until to replace our daily bread with only “corn and cassava”. I, therefore, call on every youth and all adults united by the passion for a clean brake from a rotten past and present, to maintain eternal vigilance, because the long night before a new dawn has just begun, dawn that will spare Nigerians from stagnant nightmares.