PASCHAL NJOKU, EJIKEME OMENAZU ABUJA/LAGOS –  Amid allegation of corruption and official gross misconduct levelled against the immediate-past Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, some legal practitioners have called for his investigation. Justice Muhammad had on Tuesday night, June 26, resigned his position as the CJN on health grounds. However, Sunday INDEPENDENT’s findings revealed that Justice Muhammad threw in the towel basically because of the palace coup staged against him by his brother Justices on the Bench of the Supreme Court. The Justices had in a recent letter to the ousted CJN complained bitterly over the sordid state of affairs at the Supreme Court. They raised issues bordering on corruption, gross official misconduct and poor welfare for Justices of the apex court. The petition by the 14 jurists read in part: “Your Lordship, with all due respect, this is the peak of the degeneration of the court; it is the height of decadence, and clear evidence of the absence of probity and moral rectitude. “Your Lordship, this act alone portends imminent danger to the survival of this court and the Judiciary as an institution, which is gradually drifting to extinction.” Specifically, the Justices demanded to know among numerous others, what had become of their training funds, and queried whether they had been diverted, or plainly denied. -Advertisement- POLL Against the backdrop of the inglorious resignation of Justice Muhammad, some lawyers had insisted that he must be probed to set the records straight and to know whether his brother Justices merely cried wolf to publicly serve a vote of no confidence on him. Reacting on the crisis, an Abuja-based legal practitioner, Barrister Maxwell Opara, said the ICPC and EFCC should move in to conduct investigation on the issues raised by the apex court Justices. “The former CJN should submit himself to investigation. Even while in office, he could have been investigated because immunity does not protect him. “His brother Justices raised very fundamental issues in the letter, which has become a public document. “They alleged that funds meant for their trainings etc were diverted. “With the issues raised by the Justces, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission should move in for investigation. “As part of its oversight function as contained in section 88 of the Constitution, the Senate should set up a committee, get these issues and let people write. “We are hearing a lot of atrocities committed by the former CJN and his children, so let there be a probe so that they can be heard. On the issue of the present CJN’s age, Barrister Opara insisted that it was not an issue that could generate much problem because, to ascertain Justice Olukayode Ariwoola’s real age would not be difficult. “His media aide is there. His curriculum vitae are there. So finding out his real age to solve the alleged age discrepancy will not be difficult.” Meantime, an aggregate opinion of other lawyers who spoke on grounds of anonymity was that Justice Muhammad should be made to answer the allegations raised by his co-Justices. One said, “It is not enough for Justice Muhammad to resign on health reasons. “What happens to the issues of welfare, training, etc raised in the said letter? They should be swept under the carpet? “Whereas 14 Justices of the Supreme Court signed the letter, the former CJN responded to them through his media aide, Isah Ahuraka, with all the allegations left untouched. Instead of addressing the issues raised by the Justices, another source said Justice Muhammad tried to weep up sentiments that the aggrieved jurists “who can only be seen but not heard” did resort to “dancing naked in the public”. Consequently, the lawyers demanded that Justice Muhammad be investigated. Meanwhile, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mike Ahamba, hinted that the recent crisis in the Supreme Court, which led to 14 Justices writing a letter to the former CJN was not a misnomer. “There is nothing wrong for the Supreme Court Justices to make their feelings known  to the public. There is always a first time for everything,” Ahamba said. The eminent SAN said the most important thing now was for the new CJN, Justice Ariwoola, to avoid the pitfalls which led to Justice Muhammad’s ouster. “May God direct the new CJN to avoid the recent incident. His greatest challenge is to work towards addressing the issues raised by his colleague Justices. He must reinvent respect and authority of the Supreme Court,” Ahamba said. The Justices, who wrote the letter to the immediate past CJN, are Justice Olukayode Ariwoola (now CJN); Musa Dattijo Mohammed; Kudirat Kekere-Ekun; John Inyang OKoro; Chima Centus Nweze; Amina Adamu Augie and Uwani Musa Abba-Aji. Other Justices include Mohammed Lawal Garba; Helen Moronkeji Ogunwumiju; Abdu Aboki; Ibrahim Saulawa; Adamu Jauro; Tijjani Abubakar and Emmanuel Akomaye Agim. The letter was titled, “The State of Affairs in the Supreme Court of Nigeria and Demand by Justices of the Court.” In a statement on Saturday, the Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) commended the former CJN for taking the uncommon step of resigning his position. In a release issued by CACOL’s Director of Administration and Programmes, Tola Oresanwo, on behalf of Mr. Debo Adeniran, the centre’s chairman, the recent report about the ex-CJN’s resignation was very laudable. The group said: “First and foremost, we would like to commend the courage of the out-gone Chief Justice of Nigeria for taking a bold step that is not too common in this part of the world. “Although he resigned due to ill health, we hope other public office holders will take a cue from this action of the ex-CJN by quitting at the right time, especially when they have been alleged to commit some official infractions or what is popularly referred to as gross misconduct.” According to CACOL, “This is an unprecedented development in Nigeria’s judicial history and it will go down in history as one of the highlights of the tenure of the outgone CJN. “But, the man in the eye of the storm, Justice Muhammad in a statement by his aide, titled, ‘Re: State of Affairs in the Supreme Court and Demand by Justices of the Supreme Court’, denied the allegations. “We at CACOL would like to state expressly that all the allegations leveled against the outgone CJN should be thoroughly investigated by the Nigerian Judicial Council (NJC), the Code of Conduct Tribunal and the various anti-corruption agencies in the country, swift prosecution should as well follow and he should be punished if found guilty of any of the allegations so as to deter others.” The CACOL boss added, “We would also like to congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola on his appointment as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. “We urge him to live above board and write his name in gold by carrying out extensive reforms in the judiciary that will facilitate speedy dispensation of justice like we have in other climes while carrying along other supreme court Justices.”