ABUJA – The Ministry of Power, European Union and the German government on Tuesday launched the Nigeria SE4ALL. 3.0 version platform to improve electrification planning using the mini-grid supply in Nigeria. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, while cutting the ribbon to mark the launch of the new web platform, noted that access to digital, ground truth data is key to increase the electrification rate in Nigeria. According to Aliyu, the Nigeria SE4ALL central data management system portal will provides a work based data that will assist utility operators, regulators, policy makers as well as critical stakeholders involved in the electrification planning and implementation in Nigeria. Aliyu explained that launch of the new version has become necessary because of the successes the previous versions have recorded and the obvious gap which has necessitated the need for a re-launch of an improved and upgraded version. He added that the launch is a key milestone as it aims to offer a more accurate data that will assist Nigerians develop a more robust business case in her effort to invest in the power sector. “I have also been informed that it will also use the latest tools to empower data driven electrification tools in Nigeria and hope that this will achieve all the promised outcomes”. In her goodwill message, Ms. Inga STEFANOWICZ, Head of Green and Digital Economy at the European Union Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS at the Delegation stated their delight about the website. “The European Union is happy to have supported the government to develop the new Nigeria SE4ALL web platform as collected data and the new tools will be used to serve as pre-feasibility for private sector investment, allow development of policies and frameworks as well as monitoring policy targets,” she added. -Advertisement- POLL Also speaking at the launch, Chargé d’affaires of the German Embassy to Nigeria, Mr. Martin Huth highlighted the importance of the platform for the energy sector. “These interactive platform with intuitive web apps will greatly assist the Nigerian Government in improving the regulatory framework for the set targets of electrifying Nigerians and will provide the private sector with necessary information for the business plans for investments’, he stated. The Acting Director Renewable Energy and Rural Power Access Department FMP, Engr. Abubakar Ali Dapshima stated that “the platform launched today has made available primary and empirical data available for key investors in the mini-grid, renewable energy, energy efficiency sub-sectors of the Nigerian Electricity Supply industry , (NESI)”.