In this interview with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, Qnet Regional Manager for Sub-Saharan Africa, Biram Fall, speaks on financial inclusion in Nigeria and how his company is deepening same through a literacy programme for the youth. Excerpts: Tell us about your company’s planned financial literacy programme for the Nigerian youth. It is without a doubt that an essential requirement to achieving financial stability is to make those decisions that reflect good financial management. Often, greater financial irresponsibility, leading to people falling victim to scams and Ponzi schemes has seen the youth most affected. The FLFA program is planned to arm individuals with knowledge of financial management and decision-making and equip them with ways to spot business opportunities for economic subsistence. What necessitated the programme and how long have you been planning it? The FinGreen initiative is anticipated to provide a unique opportunity aimed at contributing to attempts being made to enhance the continent’s saving culture. This we believe would lead to improved economic prospects for the region. This has been in the pipeline for a while now and we hope to roll it out to other parts of West Africa after our pilot edition in Lagos. Who are the targeted youths? Any gender, educational and tribal considerations to be eligible for the programme? Every young Nigerian deserves to be well equipped to manage their finances at an early age. As such, any young person is welcome into the program. However, we will start with a group of young leaders who will be trained as trainers, as these will be selected to train their peers in their respective communities and institutions. How much are you planning to invest in the programme? POLL The program is part of our long-term commitment to Nigeria and to Africa at large, and have committed significant financial, human, and logistical resources to the program globally. Who are your partners in the project and what are their expected roles therein? The first category of partners shall consist of the young trainers who will be trained so that they can subsequently train other youths in their communities. Our implementing partner, Financial Literacy for All, will implement the training and develop the curricula, modules, and manuals that are key to empowering the beneficiaries of the program. How will you measure the success of the programme? Our measurement metrics take into consideration the reach of our training program. Trainers will each train 20 people within their catchment area taking the number of people trained to 1050. The viability of the program will be based on the coverage reach of our training. We will conduct an evaluation through survey to gather data on the number of people who have benefitted from the training. In the long run, will you consider job opportunities for some of the youths who excel during the programme? As a company, everything we do stems from the core legacy of our founders which is Raise Yourself to Help Mankind (Acronym RYTHM). We not only have innovative programs such as our FinGreen program which equips Nigerians with Financial Literacy skills, but we also believe that Direct Selling offers a direct opportunity to individuals to develop networking, entrepreneurship, and innovation skills needed to succeed in business hence they may explore this option by choice What are the roles of state and non-state actors in the project? Our entry into Nigeria is in line with the government of Nigeria’s s vision to partner with the private sector to effectively achieve the desired economic recovery and transformative growth. We also believe that this is a shared objective across the board and actually have received great enthusiasm and partnership so far. It also helps that we have built a great partnership with Transblue with a focus on ensuring that all our products and services reach their appropriate goals effectively and efficiently. It is also such strong partnerships that help us to overcome any challenges along the way. What would you say about financial inclusion in Nigeria? More people across the globe are recognizing the value of financial inclusion including in Nigeria. In 2021, the Central Bank of Nigeria alongside stakeholders launched the National Financial Inclusion Strategy to improve financial inclusion rates in both rural and urban areas. Since its implementation and through contribution from other multi-sector partnership efforts such as FinGreens, the Bank reported a significant increase in financial inclusion in Nigeria in 2022, growing to 64%. The Bank now has a target of up to 95%in 2024. How do you think financial inclusion can be deepened? Improving financial literacy is one of the major ways that financial inclusion can be deepened. If more people have an understanding of financial products available to them, they can take them up more and make sustainable financial decisions. In Africa specifically, it is also important to enable access to equitable solutions to financial literacy and products between rural and urban areas. Our rural areas make up the largest populations and a lower uptake of financial products hence a need to focus on them. There are other factors that serve as barriers to financial access and these are affordability, quality, and suitability of available financial products, or appropriate skills to use and maximize these services.