Nigerian comedian and actor, Nosa Afolabi, popularly known as Lasisi Elenu, has proposed to his longtime girlfriend. The comedian disclosed this on Friday via his official Instagram page, with pictures and a video of his proposal. His post reads, “I had a very big laugh before writing this, Why because, I knew this day would come. “A day where I’m faced with writing a beautiful and serious message about someone very special to me, a woman who I fell in love with and became my spark in the purest of ways words can’t describe, someone who I’m excited to share with you all even though na still “On Code” and it hit me, hope these my fans wey Dey MENT will not start saying, “Sinzu Money Shey you wan dey whyne us ni” and think this is one funny skit to But guess what, I no Dey whyne una papa 0000 Lasisi don go love up o. I have never been more serious. “So let me start by saying, Ndi Igbo Kwenu, kwenu, Kwezo Nun 1H My brothers and sisters, my spirit is lifted up with joy in my heart as I share this part of Me with You all. Being a creative, I’m constantly in deep thoughts, weird mood swings, and while at it, I found a partner that compliments me in numerous and dynamic ways, and we grew in love and affection beyond explainable terms. “I’m not a romantic, so I won’t come here and lie and tell you that the first time I saw her, my eyes flew out of my socket, “Well, it did not” ra or that when she smiles butterflies fill my stomach, “duuuur, butterfly still Dey this Naija” But what I do know is this, She my ride or die, and she got my back as I her. “So a while ago on one faithful day, after all my strong mouth and bragging based on say I be “Golden Boy Sinzu Money” I went down on one Knee and I asked this beautiful, precious and extraordinary woman to be my wife and spend the rest of our Telemundo days together while sipping mojitos and chewing on some Chinese beef and she said YES!! “I love you and I’m enthusiastic about having you as my wife. Comrades Sinzu money don MOVE!! Golden Boy don Dey on a SOFT.”