Coronavirus cases have tripled across Europe in the past six weeks, accounting for nearly half of infections globally, the World Health Organization has said. Hospital admission rates have also doubled, although intensive care admissions remain low. In a statement on Tuesday, the WHO’s Europe director Dr Hans Kluge described Covid-19 as “a nasty and potentially deadly illness” that people should not underestimate. He said super-infectious relatives of the Omicron variant were driving new waves of disease across the continent and repeat infections could potentially lead to long Covid. The WHO said the 53 countries in its European region, which stretches to central Asia, reported nearly three million new coronavirus infections last week and that the virus was killing about 3,000 people every week. Globally, Covid-19 cases have increased for the past five weeks, even as countries have scaled back on testing. “With rising cases we’re also seeing a rise in hospitalisations, which are only set to increase further in the autumn and winter months,” Dr Kluge said. This forecast presents a huge challenge to the health workforce in country after country, already under enormous pressure dealing with unrelenting crises since 2020.” POLL In the WHO’s autumn strategy for Covid-19 released on Tuesday, the UN agency called for measures including a second booster dose for anyone aged five and over with weak immune systems, promoting mask-wearing indoors and on public transport and better ventilation in places including schools and offices. He said southern hemisphere countries were experiencing a very active flu season that, combined with Covid, was straining health systems. “We are likely to see a similar scenario in the northern hemisphere,” Dr Kluge said, warning that increased pressure could lead to business, travel and school chaos. He urged people to make their own decisions, even in countries where authorities have largely abandoned coronavirus restrictions. “We’re all aware of the tools we have to keep ourselves safe, assess our level of risk and take the necessary steps to protect others if we get infected,” Dr Kluge said. “Just because a mask isn’t mandated doesn’t mean it’s prohibited.”