“Asaba 2022 will be the best in terms of in­frastructure and others that will be in place in the next few months. We have the personnel to stage a fun-filled and friendly sports festival from the beginning to the end”. Host Governor Ifeanyi Okowa pledged in 2021 to deliver to Ni­geria a superlative National Sports Festival as the Federal Ministry of Sports awarded the hosting rights to the twenty-first national sports festival to Asaba, the Delta State capital. There is excitement in the sports com­munity as they look forward to a positive manifestation of the words of Ifeanyi Okowa. High expectations follow the prospects of Asaba 2022 run­ning from 2 through 15 Novem­ber 2022. Those expectations rely on the tried and tested Human Capacity management principle that past performance is a predictor of potential. The other expression is “the taste of the pudding is in the eating”. The sports community has tasted and tested Okowa’s ca­pacity in sports policy and ad­ministration. Plaudits attend each one. He walks in what persons in the communication recognize as above-the-line, be­low-the-line and through-the-line within sports. Okowa is a sports lover and patriot who intervened many times to save Nigeria’s blushes when it wavered on the hosting of the African Athletics Meet in 2018. Our country pledged to host, then began fumbling and wobbling, as Coach Fan­ny Amun famously described dithering. Okowa stepped to the rescue. Before and after that, Okowa is one governor who rallies to the national call for the train­ing and equipping of our sports team. He took on the task of grooming twelve athletes for the Tokyo Olympics. Two did very well, including Ese Brume of Delta State. These below-the-line build­ing efforts hardly cut ice with the skeptical public nowadays. Nigerians have become like the biblical Thomas insistent on seeing and touching. Okowa offers a grand edifice for such persons to see. The Stephen Keshi Stadium Asaba is a testimony and tes­tament to the project manage­ment acumen of Ifeanyi Okowa. He converted a dream of Delta State for 17 years into the re­ality of a stadium that serves the local, national, and interna­tional sports community. Yes, the building of the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba took 17 years until a determined Okowa broke the jinx. POLL By delivering the stadium, Okowa saved Nigeria’s embar­rassment. The country then hosted the African Senior Ath­letics Championships, Asaba 2018, from 1-5 August 2018. It was a masterclass in project management. First, several hiccups hit the first few days of the competi­tion. Critics went to town to ex­coriate the governor, the Local Organising Committee, Delta State government. Logistics management suf­fered under the management of the National Sports Commis­sion. Athletes screamed. The media amplified it, and colum­nists on print and online went to town. There were critical glitch­es at the commencement with flight connections for athletes. The Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, engaged char­tered flights to solve the prob­lem, though it was not the remit of the State Government to han­dle that aspect of the logistics. At the end of the competition, there were no further incidents with flights or accommodation with the State Government tak­ing charge. Indeed, by the time the games commenced, the ini­tial disappointment caused by the airport delay had become a distant memory. Instantly, some of the athletes and visiting jour­nalists changed their tune. For instance, Wesley Botton, one of the journalists, tweeted: “After a horribly wobbly start, the Local Organising Committee pulled through today at the African Championship.” Fifty-two countries partic­ipated in Asaba 2018. It was five more countries than in the previous tournament. Eight hundred athletes in attendance created a tournament record. Events in the contest increased from 44 to 46. Stephen Keshi Stadium boast­ed luxurious new tracks that passed the certification tests of the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) and the Confederation of Afri­can Athletics weeks before the games commenced. Asaba 2018 complied with all rules guiding international athletic champi­onships. Stephen Keshi Stadium is currently one of the few sta­dia in Nigeria with fully cov­ered stands. It has high-quality warm-up tracks, equipment, and facilities. The stadium that Ifeanyi Okowa built in Asaba is now part of the sporting, cultural and entertainment landmarks, and calendar of Asaba and Delta State. Now you see why Sports Min­ister Sunday Dare and the folks in the sports community enthuse me about Asaba 2022. Governor Okowa and his team have already promised to deliver a first-rate Games Village and other infra­structure. Work is ongoing. When a project matters, Nige­ria turns to a tested project man­ager called Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. *Nwakanma, a media consultant writes from Lagos