Over the last three weeks, we have explained what excellence is and why it is important to your personal and organisational success; here are some steps that you can immediately apply to develop the quality of excellence: Think thoughts of excellence. Excellence is a mindset. You can programme your mind towards excellence by thinking about excellence. What all the ancient sages have discovered is that transformation begins with our thought patterns. How we think shapes what we do. As you think in your heart, the innermost part of your being, so you are. Bestselling author Charles R. Swindoll noted that “the secret of living a life of excellence is merely thinking thoughts of excellence. Really, it’s a matter of programming our minds with the kind of information that will set us free.” So, start by thinking thoughts of excellence. Demand excellence of yourself. Excellence is a personal decision. Ted Key, an American cartoonist and writer, puts it this way, “Every job is a self-portrait of the person who did it. Autograph your work with excellence.” How do you want to be remembered? Adopt Ted key’s advice: autograph your work with excellence. Demand excellence of yourself even if your world is drowning in mediocrity. Be the spark of excellence in a dark world of mediocrity. Before you submit that project report, ask yourself, “Is this good enough? Does it meet the standards of excellence? What would an excellent report look like?” Commit to continuous improvement. Excellence yesterday is mediocrity today. Yesterday’s niche products are today’s commodity products. The only way to remain relevant is to commit to continuous improvement, what the Japanese call kaizen. Successful employees personally adopt the Japanese philosophy of kaizen—continuous improvement—concerning their skills. They look for ways to keep improving the talents life has given them. They practice, learn, get feedback, and do whatever is necessary to hone their skills and make them relevant to their organisations and societies. Join the team. Strive to be better today than you were yesterday. That’s one guarantee of success—that you are improving daily in a way that is relevant to your world. Become a yardstick of excellence. When people benchmark organisations, they are using others as a measurement yardstick. While benchmarking isn’t wrong, it is reactive. Why copy others when you can leapfrog them and become the standard for them to copy? Serial innovator Steve Jobs challenged people to “be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren’t used to an environment where excellence is expected.” And I think we can all agree that he lived his life by this motto. Become the yardstick of quality! Build in an element of surprise. Everyone loves a pleasant surprise, and excellence never fails to deliver a pleasant surprise. The extra services you add above the customer expectations create the surprise element and the wow experience. So rather than submit a bland report, spend time and design a special report. Add colours, graphs, and pictures. Don’t stop where the world wants you to stop. Go two miles instead of one. Adopt the customer service mantra of under promise but over deliver. When you under promise, you give yourself the opportunity to surprise the person when you over deliver. Monopolise an area. Excellent people monopolise an area of skill. They know something that others don’t know. They are good at something that others aren’t good at. All the trillion-dollar companies we have mentioned found an area that they monopolised. Follow the same logic. What applies to businesses also applies to you. You can go from being a relative unknown employee to the most talked about and dominant employee in your organisation. But to do so, you need to find an area and stake out a claim of excellence. Master an area, a skill, a customer problem better than the rest. Become the resource person and the research fellow of a topic or area. Carve a niche for yourself. Become an expert, an authority in one area. Solve critical problems. Excellence can be seen in mundane things but to truly distinguish yourself, you need to solve complex problems. When I teach this concept, I ask my participants to picture a hospital. I say to them that there are so many workers and professionals in a hospital like the security person, front desk staff, nurse, doctor, consultant, and so on. When I ask them who earns the highest, the answer is always the consultant. Why? Because he is a specialist. So how is a specialist different from an average doctor? We go back and forth until we arrive at the fact that the consultant solves more complex problems than the average doctor. We conclude that the rewards of both the doctor and consultant are tied to the nature and complexity of the problems they solve. And same with us. In every profession, the highest-paid are those who solve far more complex problems. While we can all be excellent irrespective of our roles, we need to excel at solving complex problems to earn more in life. The higher the ladder we climb at the types of problems we solve, the more our rewards would be in life. -Advertisement- POLL Begin now. The ancient Chinese proverb that “the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now,” is applicable here. We should have been taught how to develop excellence twenty years ago. But it is never too late to start now. Twenty years from today, you will arrive. But where—on the podium of excellence or the ash heap of mediocrity? The world needs to applaud you. Start today. Make the promise that you will only be associated with excellence. This article is an excerpt from Chapter Five of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.