*Supports Tinubu’s Muslim Muslim TicketPORT HARCOURT – In view of the massive resignations in the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, members of the party have been enjoined to work towards a strong and viable structure to win the 2023 general elections in the state. This is as members of the party have been advised to respect the choice of members who want to defect from the state APC to look for a better deal in other political parties to realize their political dreams. Speaking on the backdrop of the recent resignations by the likes of Senator Magnus Abe among others, Dr Dakuku Peterside, former Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and the 2015 governorship candidate of the Party in Rivers State he would continue to remain in the party despite the recent development. “I am a proud member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). I believe in the philosophy and ideals of the party. I am concerned, like other party stakeholders in Rivers State, about recent developments in APC, Rivers State. “I want to thank the people who have left the party for the services rendered to the Party in the past and for friendship shared. I regret the fact that we shall all miss them and the comradeship we all enjoyed. This is not unusual at the end of any political transition as people are free to exercise their democratic right in a multiparty democracy”. Dakuku noted that “Change is the only permanent feature in life.  Our doors remain open to them should they decide to return. “Let me advise my party members to respect the choices people make for therein lies our humanity.  Lack of respect for individual choices has, in the recent past, contributed to the tension we face as a people from time to time.  People resign or defect for different reasons. “I personally respect their choices, same way I expect them to respect our own choice to remain.  Remaining or leaving the party does not in any way confer moral superiority on any of us, nor does it make us more or less patriotic. Our State needs all men of goodwill who are builders and not destroyers, irrespective of party differences,” POLL Dakuku appealed to members to rally together to rebuild the Party in Rivers State.  “Now that it is evidently inevitable that we have lost some of our comrades to other endevours, it is time we pull together to rebuild the party, draw new strength and march towards our desired destination. “That way, some of our party members who left will see reasons to come back and be part of the redemption mission in the State. It is a fact that the strength and acceptability of our party cannot be measured by temporary setbacks. Our grassroots support is massive and remains unshaken. “Majority of party members have confidence in the leadership and have remained steadfast knowing that the future is bright. Our leader, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has taken a number of steps to steer the party in a more proactive direction. My least expectation is that other leaders rally round him. I am personally committed to this rebuilding process. I acknowledge the fact that it will entail some sacrifice and inconvenience but surgery for your own good comes with a certain degree of pain”. According to him, “rebuilding the party and putting her back on winning ways means we must do some things differently and in a more definite manner. It will require humility to listen to each other and understand the perspective of others. However, we can never remove our eyes from the ball.” The former House of Reps member called for concerted efforts by all to achieve success in 2023.