 Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor, has said that as the state forge a 21st Century architecture of environmental health that harmonizes natural resources with health and prosperity, tree planting will continue to play a starring role. He stated this while speaking at the Year 2022 Lagos State Tree Planting Day at the Dr. Oluyomi Finnih Recreational Park, Oregun, Lagos, with the theme: “In Harmony with Nature.” Dr. Hamzat, who was represented at the event by Mobolaji Daba, Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, said that trees, being a lifesaving investment, empower communities to increase green spaces and create opportunities for future resilience, broadly interact with nature and its resources and be more sensitive to sustainability issues. He stated that while the government is expected to lead the process, success will depend on concerted efforts by all stakeholders. “There is clearly no more time to waste if we want to restore hope for the present and future generations; nature must be at the heart of development, and all of us as societies, companies and individuals must make conscious effort to live in harmony with nature. “With the Lagos state Climate Action Plan (2020- 2025) our administration is serious about incorporating climate-friendly initiatives into everything we do as a government. “The climate action plan encapsulates the state’s vision for combating the challenge of climate change and achieving the ultimate goal of a zero-carbon Lagos. POLL Olatunji Bello, Commissioner, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, who was represented by Tolu Adeyo, a Director in the Ministry, said the theme is influenced by the need for all to collectively take steps to build a sustainable relationship with nature. “How do we establish a relationship with our environment? One of the simplest ways is to plant and nurture as many trees as possible, which is why the Lagos State Tree Planting Day will remain significant in the history of our dear state, as it offers us the opportunity to reach out to Lagosians and encourage them to plant trees.