ISEGHE AJAYI Depending on a single source of income for survival in this harsh economy can be suicidal especially if your source of income is not regular. Besides, attaining financial freedom can be very thorny regardless of one’s social class. There is no doubt that the dream of every graduate after school is to be gainfully employed to have a means of livelihood to meet some financial obligations; likewise, those with poor educational background. With so many individuals chasing few good job opportunities owing to the unfriendly state of the economy, only few desire to go into entrepreneurship which offers financial independence particularly to those who are optimistic and determined to confront their financial fears. There is nothing wrong in being a salary earner if the pay is attractive, regular and secured but with the persistent rise in inflation which dictates the standard of living of the masses, lack of financial planning will make survival a struggle to many. It is very crucial for every salary earner to have a financial focus and start planning for retirement since it can occur at any time as that juicy job may no longer be there one day because the present state of the economy does not guarantee job security. And what if you find yourself once again in the labour market due to job loss, what will you fall back on until you obtain another offer? That is why it is imperative to imbibe a saving culture to avoid financial regret. But despite the financial advice on this, many salary earners including the ones with good monthly take-home still fail to plan for their financial future because of their extravagant lifestyles or false life. -Advertisement- POLL Some even go as far as making debt their way of life regardless of what their earnings are, making it unfeasible to attain financial freedom. But the prudent ones try as much as possible to live within their income and enhance their earnings to live a better life. The following tips will help you see the need to give up habits that will perpetually keep you in financial misery: No Financial Plan It is an error many people make as they do not believe in having a budget, let alone adhering to it. Without a budget there is no way you can track or manage your money. You cannot determine how much money that goes out and what comes in especially if you are on your own. That is why several people, especially salary earners find it hard to live within their income, because they do not have a spending plan. Mind you, without a budget it will be quite difficult to set up a financial goal for a particular period of time such that fulfilling your retirement dreams may be impossible. No Grip On Your Finances This is common with many salary earners regardless of their monthly pay. Some people are just used to buying things on credit without taking cognizance of the fact that they are likely to pay more. Also, lack of proper financial planning coupled with inability to have a grip on your finances make it difficult to live within your earnings. The type of friends you associate with also determines how prudent you will become financially. Classy Lifestyle This is mostly common with people that earn good salaries especially the ones that lack proper financial planning as they do not think of their future. And as such are mostly affected adversely because of their expensive lifestyles when they lose their jobs. Some low income earners, who want to belong, are also in this category and can go to any length to procure whatever they desire, even if it is not essential, thereby making debts, their way of life. Refusal To Take Responsibility If you find yourself doing an energy sapping job that you hate, or not being able to find a job at all, what you need to do is to take responsibility and change your career. Although, it might appear creepy to go down a new path, start a side business and put in your best for it to succeed. Besides, you are the only one that can take charge of your career; nobody will do it for you. Taking charge of your career and negotiating your salary is a sure way to boost your income but failure to do this will cost your lifetime regrets. Relying On Single Income Stream This is one big mistake associated with most salary earners as some of them depend only on their monthly take-home. Relying on a particular source of income, especially if the pay is meagre and not regular, is not advisable, thus the need to have an alternative source of income for survival and financial independence. What if your salary is epileptic and you suffer job loss? How will you survive? But with other sources of income, when financial challenges occur, coping will not be that thorny because you have something to fall back on until when you become financially stable. That is why it is very crucial not to rely on one source of income but embrace residual or multiple sources of income. Failure To Set Financial Goals There is no way you will experience financial independence when you fail to set financial goals for the future. Mind you, setting financial goals is a good thing but determination to achieve such set goals is another, enabling you to stand tall financially. If you are the type that finds it difficult to save, believing that ‘tomorrow will take care of itself ’, you need to change your mindset and start saving for the future now to avoid financial regrets later. It is good to enjoy life now but be certain to save for the future and diligently work towards your set goals for that is when life will be more enjoyable. No Plan For Emergency Fund Some people do not believe in having an emergency fund and as such do not have plans to create one. Do you know that setting aside certain amount of money in a separate account for emergencies will help you greatly if one arises? Emergencies are inevitable and are bound to occur in one’s life, hence the need to create one to avoid financial embarrassment. More so, the situation of the current economy is unfavourable and getting financial assistance may be difficult as there is no money out there. But, if you do not want to be caught off guard financially in emergencies, then try to create space for emergency fund in your budget.