Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has fixed October 6, for a report on the takeover of the matter by the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation. Justice Ekwo slated the date following a complaint by counsel for the AGF, Joe Agi SAN, that he was yet to get the file in respect of the suit. Prof. Obiajulu Obikeze, Dr Raymond Ofor, Chief Israel Ezue, Sir Amobi Nwafor and Okafor Bethram IK, 1st to 5th defendants respectively, are being prosecuted over allegations bordering on forgery of chieftaincy documents. Prof. Obikeze, who works with the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, formerly known as Anambra State University Igbariam, Anambra State, was arraigned on February 22, along with the other Defendants.They were initially charged to court by the Inspector-General of Police before the AGF took over the suit. Agi had, on June 10, informed the court that he had been authorised by the AGF to take over the matter from the police and asked for an adjournment to enable him to study the case file.Justice Ekwo then fixed July 20, to enable the office of the AGF to review the suit and report back to the court. However, at a resumed hearing on Wednesday, Agi informed the court that though the matter was slated for the report, pursuant to the fiat given to him, he was still pursuing the case file.He said he was in the process of getting the file, and subsequently applied for another date to enable him to get the file. Counsel to the Defendants Kelvin Nwufo SAN did not oppose the application for an adjournment. Meanwhile, Nwufor informed the court of his preliminary objection challenging the jurisdiction of the court on the matter.The matter has been adjourned to October 6, for the report. POLL In the charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/184/202, dated and filed on July 6, 2021, the defendants were alleged to have committed the offence in 2019, at Awa, Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra. They were alleged to have conspired to commit a forgery offence contrary to Section 3(6) and punishable under Section 1(2) (c) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, Cap M17 Laws of Nigeria, 2010.Another count accused them of altering forged documents, as well as making “a forged letter to the Special Adviser to the Governor of Anambra on Chieftaincy and Towns Union Matters.The document is titled, “Submission of Awa Chieftaincy Constitution,” knowing it to be false, with the intent that it may be acted upon as genuine at the Government House, Awka, Anambra state.