Manchester United have reportedly made contract with Paulo Dybala’s agent as Erik ten Hag looks to bolster his attacking options this summer. The Red Devils could be set to lose one of their most important forwards, however, after it was revealed that Cristiano Ronaldo wants to leave the club. The Portugal international is unhappy that he will not be playing in the Champions League next season, with United only qualifying for the Europa League. It is claimed Ronaldo that a suitable offer is lodged for his services and he will be allowed to wave goodbye to the club despite re-signing just a year ago. Speculation has been building regarding his long-term commitment to the Red Devils with Ronaldo left “shocked and disappointed” by their performances since returning to the club. However, United are searching for a potential replacement and have spoken to Dybala’s representatives as they look to agree a deal for the 28-year-old. According to La Repubblica, Red Devils and Arsenal have been in touch with the forward’s agent Jorge Antun, with Tottenham Hotspur, Inter Milan and Napoli all interested. It is understood that Inter are most keen to get a deal done, though. The Serie A giants have already brought in Romelu Lukaku on loan from Chelsea and are willing to line the Belgian up with Dybala and strike partner Lautaro Martinez, who has been linked with a move away but is expected to stay at the San Siro. The Red Devils have stepped their interest in the player, who scored 115 goals in 293 games during his seven-year stint at the Old Lady. Dybala struggled with injuries and fitness problems last season but still manage to directly contribute to 21 goals in 39 matches across all competitions, before his release from the club. Despite operating mainly as a No.10 or a second striker throughout his time at Juventus, Dybala can also play on his own up front and as a winger – the versatility United may require with Ten Hag willing to try out new ideas. Ronaldo is United’s only current senior forward, but Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial can also play as the lone front man, as demonstrated during the 2020/21 campaign. Dybala would bring a wealth of top-flight and European experience to the club, having made more than 50 Champions League appearances throughout his career. He is a creative player who can make that killer pass but also has an eye for goal which United may need with 24-goal Ronaldo set to leave the club.