The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has congratulated the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the Osun State governorship election, Ademola Adeleke, on his victory at the polls. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had early on Sunday declared Adeleke the winner of the election with a total of 403,371 votes to defeat the incumbent Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who got 375,027 votes. Diri, who was the Chairman of the PDP National Campaign council for the election, told journalists at the country home of the Adeleke’s in Ede that the electoral victory was a massive one for the party and its flagbearer. The governor, in a statement issued on Sunday by his New Media Director, Kola Oredipe, said despite the wide acceptance and popularity of the candidate, the God of Miracle that brought him to power in 2020 in Bayelsa State has also given Osun election to the PDP. He said, “I am here in Ede with my colleague, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and my very senior colleague, former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki. We have been here to support our brother (Adeleke). If you will recall, on the day of our mega rally I sang a song, and the song says ‘power belongs to God’. “With this result by INEC, it has been proven that power belongs to God. And I told you that I am a miracle governor and prayed that the miracle robs off on Osun election. And so, we are all happy and excited.” Diri described the electoral success as the will of the people and a statement of intention by the PDP ahead of the 2023 general elections, saying the “PDP is coming.” He further said, “You see, we came in here to campaign and after the campaign, we stayed back here with him (Adeleke) and from the day of the campaign, I clearly told him that there was organic support for the candidate and for the party, and it has been so proven. POLL “Let no man play the role of God. And I have also told you that this election is not only for the Osun state, this election was a national election, this election was a test election for 2023. I warn you PDP is coming in 2023. “Let me on behalf of my National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu and the Presidential candidate of our party in the 2023 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, say a very big congratulations to the dancing, loving, lovable, straightforward, honest Governor-elect. You are now the dancing Governor.”