MOHAMMED SHOSANYA The rising wave of vandalism and sabotage of power facilities in unsettling most power distribution companies and spurring possibility of overstretched expenditure on restoring the vandalised assets, Daily Independent can report. The development is also having a drawback on the provision of uninterrupted power supply to electricity consumers who are still over high tariff and poor service provided by the power companies. While the country has continue to lament the unenthusiastic performance of the power performance and the disconnect of the value since its privatization in 2014, the power distribution companies have expressed disgust over the unsavoury operating environment in Nigeria. They specifically said that the continuous vandalization of their facilities and the attendant toll on their balance sheets have continued to give them endless nightmares. Recently, vandals returned to the turf and destroyed the facilities of power distribution companies in the country For instance, the Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company, early this week, lamented the rising cases of vandalism of power supply infrastructure in its franchise which it said is taking a serious toll on its operations. The company said that 158 distribution sub-stations were vandalized across the four franchise states of the Company between January and June this year. -Advertisement- POLL Engineer Bello Musa, the Chief Engineering and Technical Services Officer of the Company, who quoted in the statement said the Company lost N238,701,800:65 (two hundred and thirty eight million, seven hundred and one thousand, eight hundred naira, sixty five Kobo) worth of equipment . Besides the company lost N147,953,449:01 in expected revenue during the period under review. According to him, some of the prolonged outages and service disruption suffered by the customers are as a result of vandalism and theft of power supply assets of the Company by some selfish and criminal elements in the society. He described the vandalism of power supply assets as “despicable act of sabotage and heinous crime against the society”. “The destruction of critical national assets like power supply infrastructure by a few unpatriotic elements is a despicable act of sabotage, a mindless criminality and the pinnacle of irresponsibility which we must collectively fight as a society,” he said. Engr. Bello Musa disclosed that 54 distribution sub-stations out of the 158 vandalized have been repaired and supply restored to the affected customers while efforts are being made to bring the remaining to back to service. Besides, Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) Plc, decried the spate of vandalism within its network, and said the activity of vandals is beginning to cripple power distribution to its esteemed customers. Engr. John Ayodele, the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Company, who expressed this in a statement, disclosed that on the 29th of June, at night, unknown civilians and armed men cladded in Police and Civil Defense uniforms, carted away IBEDC 33kV underground cables at Mokola Round-about in Ibadan, Oyo State. “The stolen cables feed Agodi Injection Substation, where Government House, the State Secretariat, Agodi and majority of Bodija area and thousands of other urban customers are serviced . “This means the economic power and livelihood of these people have been grossly disrupted, as we are incapacitated by the stolen cables to meet the supply demand. And this is just one of the various instances of the nefarious activities of vandals within our franchise” He announced that his company lost over N50million monthly to vandals through stolen cables, damaged transformers, and other network infrastructure. He also appealed to IBEDC customers to jealously guard electrical installations within their environments to avoid being plunged into unexpected darkness, as the company cannot afford to replace any vandalized installations for now. “We implore all residents and Customers to report any act suspected to be vandalism to the nearest Police Station, Civil Defence and the Department of State Service. IBEDC does not operate late nights and all activities that occur after 8pm should be suspected and reported accordingly”, he said. Three weeks ago, Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) announced that no fewer than 20 transformers were attacked by vandals across the company’s franchise network within the South-East in the past three weeks. The EEDC Head of Corporate Communications, Mr Emeka Ezeh, who disclosed this in a statement,however, stated that four of the suspected vandals have been arrested. He said: “There is no day that passes without the company receiving a report of electrical installation being attacked by vandals.It has gone so bad that the vandals now go as far as draining transformer oil, even after carting away the armoured cables, a situation which is disheartening,” he said. Ezeh stated that vandals capitalised on the poor availability occasioned by the drop in quantum of power generation experienced in the sector in recent times, to perpetrate the criminal acts. He said the drop in power supply had adversely affected the company’s daily energy allocation. Narrating its encounter with vandals recently, Engr. John Ayodele, Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) ,said it has lost the estimated sum of N4 billion to vandalism of its assets as acts of vandalism reportedly escalates within its network in the last six months. Dr. Tinuade Sanda, the managing director/CEO, of the company, , lamented the spate of vandalism within the network escalated in the last few weeks, especially, in Mushin, Yaba, Surulere, Ijora, Apapa, and Lagos Island. She said the company has written to regulatory authorities including the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the Bureau of Public Enterprises(BPE), the Police and other security agencies about the situation. She complained that, apart from the electricity supply gap from national grid, due to challenges such as shortage of gas supply, a drop in power generation and recurrent system collapse of the national grid, vandalism is creating service disruption within its franchise area. She said: “These challenges have adversely affected the supply of power to our customers. However, I would like to reiterate to our esteemed customers that we are actively engaging the other stakeholders in the industry to provide solutions to these problems. These cases of vandalism have contributed in no small measure to the prolonged outages in our network, leading to disruptions of many businesses, maiming/injury, and loss of lives, particularly of innocent and unsuspecting members of the public. “This menace she continued has made it difficult for the company to provide adequate electricity to its customers whilst also posing a serious threat to its distribution infrastructure, especially the electricity cables. Squaring up with the vandals, Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), also threatened to ensure that vandals of its electricity installations would be maximally punished. It disclosed the prosecution of one of its staff Bamidele Rasaq and one Abdulsalamad Abubakar, who were both sentenced to a year imprisonment for vandalising its installations in Kogi and Niger States respectively. Mr Donald Etim, the DisCo’s Chief Marketing Officer, who stated this in Abuja expressed the company’s zero-tolerance to vandalism of its network assets. “In a related recent incident, an upper Sharia Court sitting in Minna, Niger State, handed a one-year jail term to one Abdulsalamad Abubakar, who was caught vandalising an AEDC substation in Paida junction of Minna. “Abdulsalamad, who was apprehended in the criminal act on March 29, 2022 by an official of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF), was charged to court for contravening Sections 123 and 385 of the Sharia Penal Code law of Niger state, which prescribes five years’ imprisonment punishment for the offence. “The convict had earlier been paraded before journalists by the NPF ahead of his arraignment in court, alongside numerous items found in his possession, which include: (1) 15-meter XLPE cable; (2) 300mm incomer cable and (3) 5 meters of 150mm,” the statement added. He said disciplinary measures would be taken on perpetrators irrespective of who they were adding that any staff caught would be outrightly dismissed. Etim further stressed that vandalism of electricity network infrastructure is a serious offence punishable with a Maximum Sentence of Life Imprisonment under Section 1(9) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act LFN 2004. “The management will not relent in its effort to tackle vandalism and other mischiefs on its Network. We are committed to ensuring that apprehended vandals are tried in accordance with the law and made to face the consequences of their actions without any prejudice.” Stakeholders in the power sector have expressed worries over the rising wave of vandalism and emphasised the need for the government to do more to nip this menace in the bud. An analyst, Mr. Ayodele Oni, advised governments at all levels to shore up enforcement of law on crimes being committed by vandals, stressing that albeit Nigeria’s challenges are far beyond law making, rather the implementation of the existing law. “Government does need to do more in terms of enforcement of existing laws around vandalism as there are already legal provisions in this regard. The challenge in Nigeria is not the lack of good laws but enforcement,” Oni said. He implored those at the helm of affairs on the need to improve the existing laws existing, as well as re-orientation of Nigerians will also help, as more people should be told of the dangers and the overall effects of vandalism on power supply, the economy of the country and their own quality of life. “There should be enforced requirements of technology that helps track and reduce the incidence of vandalism,” he advised.