LAGOS  – Three Points Industries Limited is a wholly Nigerian company based in Lagos and it manufactures and sells the household cleaning products. Its major products are Toilet Boss, Boff Scouring Powder, Pestox Insecticide and Crisp Fabric Starch. Mr. Omotayo Ogunfowoke is the group product manager of the company and he granted an interview to Daily Independent. He said that the aim of the company is to be a profitable organization that delivers good returns on investment and produce and market high quality and high value products that will meet the needs of the consumers. He stated that the quality of the products of the company is high relative to others in the market, including the imported ones. He added that the prices are affordable to the average Nigerian. “Nigerians are getting high quality products at affordable prices from Three Points Industries Limited and we want them to enjoin the offers at the same time. The products are made in Nigeria for Nigerians and we want them to patronize the products,” he said. He disclosed that all the raw materials the company uses in the manufacturing processes are sourced from the local market. “We support Nigerian farmers, chemical makers and others by buying from them; we are aware that the country has a challenge in the foreign exchange sector and we doing all we can to use local raw materials and help in growing the Nigerian economy. -Advertisement- POLL “We are a Nigerian company in name and in the way we do our business and we are in for the long haul. We are not going away soon,” he posited. The group product manager of Three Points Industries Limited, however, called on the government to improve the state of infrastructure to make the business environment friendly to companies operating in the country. He particularly cited the power situation in the country, which he said was impacting negatively on businesses. Ogunfowoke called on the government to ensure that businesses get adequate power supply so that they operate optimally so that they can make profit, employ more young people, pay more tax and contribute to the growth of the national economy. Bank Launches Loan Scheme For Women-Owned Businesses In furtherance of its role in promoting female entrepreneurship across the country, , First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced the launch of the FirstGem fund (FirstGem loan); a single-digit loan scheme, exclusively designed to put women at an advantage in contributing to the socio-economic development of the country. The FirstGem loan scheme is designed for female-owned or partnered SMEs in the following sectors: Food/Beverage processing & Packaging, Beauty and cosmetics, Confectionery, Catering & Restaurants, Transportation (Logistics) and Agric/Agro-Allied (retail value chain). With an interest rate of 9% per annum, FirstGem loan is a collateral-free loan that is available to the bank’s existing and prospective female customers. Based on eligibility, customers can access loans from N500,000.00 to N3,000,000.00. Folake Ani-Mumuney, Group Head, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, while speaking on the loan, said: “We are delighted with the role our FirstGem product plays in creating an avenue to enlarge the business activities and endeavours of female entrepreneurs across the country.