Comptroller Festus Oyedele Okun is the Customs Area Controller of Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML), Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). In this mid-year activities interactive session with journalists in Lagos, he speaks on the much talked about VIN valuation system, it’s successes, and ex[pressed optimism in the ability of the system to improve on the business of vehicle importation and clearing in Nigeria. ANDREW UTULU brings the excerpts. Despite the numerous complaints concerning duty collection, you still made an impressive collection in June. How did you do that? First of all, I must say that those complaints arose from human nature. We don’t want change; once we find ourselves in a comfort zone, we don’t want anything that will take us out of it, whereas the end of such a comfort zone is a change to a better situation. So that is what we’re really experiencing. The implementation of the VIN valuation, which is the source of all the complaints; we did a risk analysis, especially on the non- standard VIN. For the standard ones, it was quite easy; once the declarant goes into the system, he is able to make use of the platform and the value is automatically generated. However, for the non-standard, it is subject to manipulation and abuse. So, we analysed the risk involved in this tampering and we put up measures ably backed by the management, and we adhere strictly to the Standard Operating Procedures (POP). With that in place, we were able to harness the maximum available revenue, especially where we made sure that discretion is no longer used; we are now properly guided by our books of instruction and our database. And that is what really helped our revenue. Your revenue for this period is about 12% more than it was last year. Could you just articulate the figures? In the first six months of this year, we have generated N117,568,218,513 against N104,649,202,251 generated in the corresponding period last year, and this is what gives us a 12.3% increase over 2021. POLL From the Customs perspective, using your command as a case study, has your importers embraced VIN valuation? Yes, they have. Just like I said, there was this initial fear, but as time went on, they discovered that what the management has done is to even use the base value for all types of vehicles. What I mean is that there are different types of vehicles with different grades, and the higher grades attract higher duty values. But, what the management has done is to just take the base value, which is quite an advantage to the importing community, just to serve as an encouragement to draw everyone into the fold. So, for those who have standard VIN, it has been very encouraging and they are enjoying it, and the stakeholders in different forums have applauded this VIN valuation. And I can assure you that even though we still have some non-standard, the standard VIN is working fine and people are embracing it. Have there been any impediments, such as people leaving their vehicles in the port and all that? Yes, there are. Currently, we have about 7,000 vehicles in the port; these are mainly vehicles from 2011 or 2012, when they feel the duty is high. And to us, this is a misconception, because even during the stakeholders’ engagement, it was announced that the rebate would stop in 2013. Because if you look at it, from 2021 to 2013 would give almost 100% rebate on the price, so there is no way we can go below that and give 110% as a rebate. They just need to understand this, because that is what the extant guideline says. Does VIN valuation spread across ECOWAS countries or just focused on Nigeria? No matter what you have, being a signatory to either a charter or a convention still allows you to use technology to develop your system. You don’t need to wait for other countries to develop along with you before you do, because we’re talking about trade facilitation, transparency, uniformity and simplification. How do you achieve all these things without technology? Trade facilitation is all about the application of technology to improve your operations, and that is what VIN valuation has done. We’re aware that, a couple of months ago, a lot of lectures were arranged in a lot of commands across the country. So how would you rate the success of implementing this VIN so far? I will say it is very high, in the sense that it was fully implemented on the 23rd of May, 2022, and we achieved our highest threshold revenue in that month, which amounted to N22.5 billion, with barely a week to work on it that month. And in the month of June, we moved from that amount to N27.029 billion; a 21.9% increase over the previous month. And we’re looking forward and hoping to perform better in the coming months. So I believe it is working well. What is the current position of the ex-factory in computing duty payments for imported vehicles? Just like I was explaining earlier, for now, we have two aspects to it; the non-standard VIN and the standard one. For the latter, people just go through the process, make their declarations, and assess their values, so you don’t need to go through anybody to pick it up. But, for the non-standard VIN, that’s where you need to go through the valuation by writing an application to the Customs Area Controller, telling us that you have a non-standard VIN and that you’re seeking approval to obtain your ex-factory from the valuation unit. And once this is verified, we approve it. So, the manual ex-factory procedure is for when we have non-standard VINs; for the standard ones, they pick it from the system. And at the first instance, they have to input their transaction value, and if it is equal to or greater than the customs value, it accepts it. If it doesn’t, you just tweak it to make sure it is achieved. Concerning the insinuation that importers and agents have abandoned their vehicles due to high duty payments? We know that we have a lot of vehicles in the port, but we cannot call it an abandonment due to high duty because we’re aware of all that is going on in the country. Before you can make such a conclusion, we need empirical evidence, and no one has come forward to say that they are abandoning their vehicles due to such reasons. Because this VIN valuation has not imported any values that are different from what we have been doing; the only thing is that it has taken away discretion where the book will say “pay N500 as your duty” and someone will say “because this is my family, let them pay N400.” That is all the VIN valuation has done; implementing a standard operating procedure, but it has not deviated from what we’re supposed to have been doing from inception. Secondly, there are intermediaries between the customs and the importers, and VIN valuation has taken away so many of these intermediaries. Even an importer that is very conversant with the system can do it on his own, if he has access to the TPN. But, these intermediaries will not want their jobs taken away. So, it might not be what is in our system that people will say is obtainable, some will say Customs has increased duty, because, in the past, it was possible for someone to use his contacts to get lower values, but now, it’s no longer possible. People are working and, as you can see, we’re generating revenue, so if people have abandoned their vehicles, how do we generate the revenue? It is those who are indisposed from their inability to continue beating the system that might say they want to abandon their vehicles. So I will not conclude that people have abandoned their vehicles in the port. What is the level of compliance in this past year, and are there any seizures or arrests? Well, we’ve had no seizures in this quarter, particularly in vehicles. For us to make seizures, they must have contravened, but in our procedures, even if there are infractions in the previous periods, we used to make seizures from offensive items like arms or whatever that we find in vehicles. But, we have no major seizures because of the nature of our goods. And as for the level of compliance, it is high; I’ll put it at around 70% because, due to the nature of the goods we deal with and the nature of our stakeholders, some of them are inclined to see how they can beat the system. But it has taken care of compliance automatically; the nature of this VIN valuation makes it impossible to manipulate the system and get away with it. And like I said, we will always have deviants, so, it is up to us to analyse the risks that come with them and put up measures to checkmate them. And our deterrent measures have served to warn others not to go the same route. We have seen your performance in the first half of the year; could you give us a projection for the rest of the year? I believe that with our current progress, by the third quarter of the year, we should have improved to the extent that we can say at the end of the year that we have achieved our target. Just like I said, within a week in May, we were able to reach a new threshold of achievement, and in June, we improved significantly on it. So, going by that trend, we project that we will progress. What message do you have for your external stakeholders and agents? My message to them is that they should come and transact business with us. With the management we have on board, we are encouraged to commit ourselves to our task, which is what we’re doing. We don’t joke with our stakeholder engagement, and this is the only port where you can clear your vehicle within 4 hours and your container between 8-24 hours for compliant traders. We are committed to transparency, trade facilitation and serving the general public, to the best of our ability; we are here to serve them diligently. We have no other job to do than to do what we’re supposed to do. We give our best to the Federal Government, to the service, to our stakeholders and to the declarant. And in all these, we are carrying along our sister agencies to ensure that we create a conducive trading environment for all stakeholders to enjoy transacting their business in this command. This, you can take from us.