Raheem Sterling has confessed that the challenge of taking Chelsea back to the top of the Premier League was behind his decision to join the Blues. The England international enjoyed seven trophy-laden seasons with Manchester City, lifting four Premier League titles as part of one of the strongest club sides in the history of English football, when he opted to join Chelsea in a £47.5m deal earlier this summer. Now under the ownership of Todd Boehly, Chelsea are striving to take City’s spot as champions, and for Sterling, that challenge was too enticing to pass up on. “Seeing in the last two years it’s four or five finals that you guys have been in, the progress, you won the Champions League and are now looking to challenge for the Premier League, it’s something that intrigued me when I was having a conversation with the club,” he told Chelsea TV. “Seeing the direction that you guys are going in, it’s something I really bought into and I just felt it is a place where I can really come into my own. I just think it’s the perfect platform for me. “The club’s already got that winning mentality but to keep doing it every single year and keep winning more and more trophies and building on the previous season, I think that’s what top managers like Thomas [Tuchel] do. It’s not one year win and next year rest, it’s again and again and again and that’s what excites me to be here.” Sterling also opened up on his conversations with manager Thomas Tuchel and his relationships with some of the players in the squad. “You can see how genuine [Tuchel] was and how much he wanted me here, and that was the nail on it for me. I was certain that this is a place I want to be. POLL “I know a few of the boys from the national team. Mase [Mason Mount], Chilly [Ben Chilwell], to name a few, and I’ve got a good connection with Callum [Hudson-Odoi] already. I feel at home already and I’m just keep putting the work in and can’t wait to gel even more with them.” “It’s been a great first week, I am really settling in, I feel at home now. I say to the fans, thank you for your warm welcome. It’s an exciting time for me. I know how much more I have to offer. I still feel within myself that there’s another step that I’ve been fighting to get on to and I think this is the perfect platform for me to do that. “Hopefully I can do that in person at the Bridge for many years to come and just keep bagging them goals in, simple as that!”