LAGOS – A pressure group, Global Initiatives For Good Governance (GIFGG), has come out in defence of the family of Senator Ike Ekweremadu, saying that due process was followed in seeking a solution to their daughter’s health crisis. The group, in a statement signed by its Director General, Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, maintained that the embattled former Deputy Senate President and his family did not illegally export the purported organ donor, David Nwamini Ukpo, to London as widely claimed by some sections of the social media platforms. Kalu recalled that Miss Sonia, the daughter of the serving Senator Ekweremadu had kidney failure and needed a transplant in order to stay alive, which led to the consultation with the said David Ukpo for organ donation. He explained: “Even Ekweremadu’s application to the visa section of British High Commission in Abuja testified the due process followed and also certified that David is up to 21 years, which is the age of consent in the UK. “This invariably relieves Ekweremadu’s family of the burden of crime allegedly levelled against him to have exported David to the UK to harvest his kidney in favour of Sonia Ekweremadu’s life. “As a constitutional lawyer, there is no way a renowned Senator like Ike Ekweremadu would illegitimately fly someone to London against the person’s consent, especially in an act likely to endanger his political reputation and then land him in jail. “He understands how the law works and would not in any way do anything short of the laid down procedures to avoid regrets in the end. “Global Initiatives For Good Governance is of the view that Ekweremadu’s family did nothing wrong by consulting David for medical assistance of which the purpose of his trip to London was clearly made to him and he consented to it on a monetary value. -Advertisement- POLL “From the pocket of information gathered, we were briefed that David’s elder brother, who deals in phone accessories in Lagos and one of his uncles were aware of David’s trip for organ donation. “The allegation that David is 15-years-old is false and a calculated attempt to blackmail a respected Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. David was advised by his people to raise alarm and report to the appropriate authority to enable him to be granted an asylum by the UK government. “So, those peddling false news against Senator Ekweremadu’s family are his political enemies who see his prominence in the society as a threat to them.” It would be recalled that the Metropolitan Police arrested the Senator and his wife in response to David’s alleged under age claims, but the group maintained that the UK Court is in a position to set the senator and his wife free on July 7, 2022, when the case would come up. He stressed: “Where the burden lies is on the prediction of age of consent and David’s passport proved that he was born on October 12, 2000, which is a clear indication that he is of the age of consent. “Senator Ike Ekweremadu did not commit any offence for seeking medical help from a certified and rational being, David. We would not expect him to consult an animal or reptile for assistance; rather he approached a human being as guided in law to get his daughter’s health challenges resolved. “David was in a position to reject the offer when he was first consulted, but he consented to donate one of his organs for monetary value reward and we must not forget that organ donation is legalised provided consent and due process are followed. “The world must also understand that David raised an alarm to secure asylum as his organ did not match the patient’s for a transplant. That proves the fact that he knew why he was flown to London and if his organ had matched that of Sonia Ekweremadu’s, he could have been harvested to fulfil the subject of the contract.”