 ENUGU – A young man identified as Wis­dom Kalu Onu, an indigene of Abia State was arrested yester­day by the security personnel of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, for vandalising elec­trical installations located within the Campus premises, belonging to the Enugu Elec­tricity Distribution Company PLC (EEDC). The Head of Corporate Communications, EEDC, Mr. Emeka Ezeh, who made this known in Enugu confirmed that the suspect, along with the vandalised materials have been handed over to Nsukka Urban Police Station for prop­er investigation and possible prosecution. Ezeh, who narrated the ugly experience the company has been going through in the hands of vandals reiterated the company’s resolve to continue working with critical stake­holders to ensure that these elements perpetrating this dastardly act are apprehended and brought to book. He said that there is no day that passes without the com­pany receiving a report of electrical installation that has been attacked. “It has gone so bad that the vandals now go as far as draining transformer oil, even after carting away with the ar­moured cables”, a situation he described as disheartening. According to the company’s spokesman, well over twenty transformers have been at­tacked by vandals across the company’s network in the past three weeks, with four of the vandals apprehended. Also at Ndibe, in Afikpo North Local Government Area, Ebonyi State, a suspect identified as Ogbonnia Otu, was apprehended by the Pres­ident General of the commu­nity with the support of his team, in possession of 150mm2 upriser cable believed to have been carted from a distribution substation belonging to EEDC. -Advertisement- POLL Similarly, on Sunday, a sus­pected vandal, Tochukwu Onu­maegbulam was arrested by the Electricity Committee Task Force of Umuloola Communi­ty, Orlu, Imo State, for vandalis­ing the distribution substation serving the community. In Abatete, Anambra State, Ndubuisi Okuogba was arrest­ed by members of Vigilante Group in Abatete, for vandal­ising a 500KVA distribution substation serving the area. The suspect was apprehend­ed while in possession of four intermediate armoured cables stolen from the substation, which he had burnt for the pur­pose of extracting the copper, before his arrest. The suspects were handed over to the respective Police Sta­tions for proper investigation and possible prosecution. While calling on customers to be more involved in securing these installations that are serv­ing them, Ezeh commended the efforts of the Security Person­nel, Vigilante Groups, as well as the President General and his team, in apprehending the suspects. Ezeh reiterated that these vandals were capitalising on the poor availability occasioned by the drop in quantum of power generation experienced in the sector in recent times, which has adversely affected the company’s daily energy allocation. “We keep committing mil­lions of Naira restoring vandal­ised installations and this is no longer sustainable, considering our current financial state.”