Right now,the choice of presidential and Vice Presidential candidates for the 2023 general elections in Nigeria is the number one horror afflicting the psyche of Nigerians. It is so much so that if a nation wide public opinion were to be conducted right now, the tendency that majority of Nigerians would tick-off the box concerning the tension arising from the presidential candidate of the ruling party at the center, APC Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s choice of Kashim Shetima as run­ning mate for the 2023 presidential contest as their biggest concern in this present time is very high. That is most especially if the opinion poll were to be conducted amongst members of the Christian and Muslim faiths to whom it has be­come a supremacy battle more than members of the political class. And the distress is not only from the ruling party at the centre, APC. To a lesser degree,the main opposition par­ty,PDP’s decision to jettison the presidency ro­tation principle that the party had practiced since 1999, and throw it open to all the zones which has enabled its 2019 presidential candi­date ,Turaki Atiku Abubakar to clinch it; is also a source of prickly heat and discontentment amongst voters,especially in the south-east and south-south zones of the country which have been the traditional stronghold of the party. While the irritations caused by what crit­ics see as an volte-face by the PDP is less caus­tic,the Muslim-Muslim ticket being presented by the APC is justifiably on the lips of every Nigerian-both politically conscious and reli­gion sensitive. While some deem the Muslim-Muslim pres­idential candidacy as a non issue,a lot see it as toxic and corrosive,depending on their religion and ethnic biases. This is as opposed to resort­ing to partisanship which used to be the main criteria for supporting or opposing presidential and vice presidential candidates. In fact,as the issue of religion has been dragged into the political mix ,following the introduction of a Muslim-Muslim ticket for the presidency by Tinubu and Shettima,and since the faith composition of Nigerians is more or less a balanced equation of 50/50’, who becomes president of Nigeria,now matters to all of us . POLL Hence it is being discussed amongst a vast majority of Christians and Muslims alike in churches and mosques as well. Before now,choosing a vice presidential candidate was just a routine chore for presi­dential candidates.And the equation was sim­ple because it was always about walking the fine lines of religion and ethnicity. While the framers and writers of 1999 constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria were conscious of the religious and ethnic fault lines which have now widened into a gulf,they did not factor it into or incorporate it in our country’s statutes book expressly,so that crossing the line via a Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian ticket would be an outright violation and contraven­tion of the laws of land.Instead of incorporat­ing it into the constitution,it was not codified, but only recognized and treated as a mere un­derstanding. It is in pursuance of that balance that the religious sensitivities of Nigerians who are sharply divided along the lines of the two pre­dominant faiths- Christianity and lslam, that when a Christian emerges as a presidential candidate,a muslim was chosen as the vice presidential candidate,and vice versa. That was the case when after indepen­dence,and our country was operating a par­liamentary system, Abubakar Tafawa Bale­wa became prime minister.And to strike a balance,Nnamdi Azikiwe became Governor General. It did not matter that the office of the former was executive,while that of the latter was merely ceremonial. Some Nigerians still romanticize that period of parliamentary system of government 1960-66 which they fondly refer to with nostalgia as the ‘golden age’ of Nigeria that they would love our beloved country to return,by literally pushing back the hands of time. That aspiration is underscored by the fact that back in those days,there was healthy com­petition amongst the four regions in our coun­try and development,progress and prosperity of the people in respective the regions reflected the amount of vigor and acumen applied in harnessing and managing the natural resourc­es endemic in each of them.That is because Nigeria was basically a natural resource ex­porting country to Europe and the rest of the world. As such,the north was doing its utmost best to grow and harvest Cotton that was grown in Funtua area of katsina state that was feeding the textile miles in kaduna, the headquarter of the region.And that engagement was creating employment and generating revenue for the government via taxes. Groundnut farming and processing into vegetable /edible oil was also flourishing in the northern region as it is also native to the zone and therefore a veritable employment creator via the factories and another major source of tax income. A similar scenario was also present in the eastern region where oil palm was its main stay,and coal from the mines endemic in the area sustained the economy that was booming in and around Enugu,the headquarter of the region.The western region with cocoa as its main cash crop,and which was the commodity that attracted the highest premium,was the most buoyant.Owing to its high market val­ue in the international market,cocoa farmers were prosperous and practically all the forests in the western region were being cultivated for cocoa to boost the income of the region. And the Return- On-Investment ,ROI was quite significant. Hence the western region became head and shoulder above other regions in terms of prog­ress through advancement in education- free education,in terms of provision of infrastruc­ture-first television station in black Africa,a stadium,the tallest building in Nigeria at that time-Cocoa house etc,found home in lbadan,the headquarter of the region. In Midwest region where rubber palm was the major cash crop,tapping rubber for latex in the form of lumps was the major occupation of the people until crude oil was discovered in Oloibiri ,modern day Bayelsa state in 1958 which changed the landscape of our country from a producing to a consuming country one . And Benin-city,the capital of Midwest,was the center of activities and it was compliment­ed by Warri that was also brimming with fish­ery and other marine activities as well as log­ging/woodworks due to its coastal location and rain forest ecology. As can be seen from the narrative above,be­fore the discovery of oil/gas,all Nigerians in the four (4) regions had their hands on the plough,working tirelessly to boost the produc­tivity and income of the country. I guess that is why the period is referred to as the ‘golden age’ because we were a produc­ing country before we became a consuming country when oil/gas was discovered. And it is an unfortunate situation which Labor Party, Presidential Candidate,Peter Obi has smartly converted to his campaign mantra which is that he will:Turn Nigeria From A Consuming To A Producing Country. In a manner that is sort of perverse and gutting,the availability of oil/gas in our coun­try has become ‘oil curse’ instead of a booster to our original production outlook through farming and processing of cash crops earli­er highlighted.That is what the United Arab Emirates,UAE has done with its oil/gas in Abu Dhabi,while Dubai remains a trading and tourism haven,just as Ras Al Khaimah and the rest of the emirates that make up the seven (7) emirates nation, Ajman, Fujairah, Sharjah and Umm Al Quwain concentrate efforts on har­nessing resources endemic in their locations and of which they have comparative advantage in producing. Why did l decide to dredge up the past,read­ers may be wondering? Well,the aim is to put in perspective the fact that,not until the parliamentary system bequeathed to us by the British colonialist when their rule over us was ending in 1960, was jettisoned and replaced with presidential system in 1979 by the military,all was well with Nigeria.And to remind us that our country has the potential of becoming like the UAE,because it is endowed with all the ingredients that it has taken to make that Middle East country that is regarded as a wonder of the world, become like Paris and New York combined. Back in the days,the regional capitals of Nigeria-Kaduna,lbadan,Enugu and Beninci­ty were the centers of political and economic powers dispersed across the country as all the regions had autonomy and the local political leaders were making their own laws reflective of the peculiar dynamics of their people’s cul­ture ,such as ethnic and religious orientations and inclinations. Since ,only defense,foreign and internal af­fairs were mainly left in the purvey of the feder­al government with a prime minister incharge, government at the center was centrifugal and it was centripetal in the regions,as such prime ministerial or governor-generalship was not that attractive to warrant the type of do or die attitude now invested in becoming president and Vice President of Nigeria currently suck­ing up all the oxygen in the political space and threatening to asphyxiate our beloved country. And it is not mere happenstance that the most prominent political leaders at that time,­Sir Ahmadu Bello of northern region and Chief Obafemi Awolowo of western region chose to become premiers of their respective regions instead of moving to the centre to be­come prime minister of Nigeria. As evidence of the ordinariness of the central government,Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa,from Bauchi state who was the second in prominence in the political hierarchy in the north was assigned by sir Ahmadu Bello to serve as prime minister.So invariably the best hands were reserved in the regions and the second best were dispatched to the center which was at that time,lagos- the seat of the federal government. The exception to that rule was,Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe who was the most prominent leader from the east and instead of becoming the pre­mier in the manner that Ahmadu Bello and Obafemi Awolowo had become premiers of their respective regions,conceded the premier­ship of eastern region to sir Micheal Okpara and opted to become the Governor General of Nigeria,a ceremonial role which he desired as a centrist.