. Differences Must Be Resolved In The Spirit If Nation Building – Gbajabiamila ABUJA – The National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), on Thursday opposed the proposed establishment of a Council for the regulation and conduct of the practice of the broadcasting profession in Nigeria, saying that it is aimed at usurping its existing responsibilities as an industry regulator. This was even as other practitioners and eggheads within the broadcast industry backed the suitability and relevance of the proposed Council in the face of perceived inadequacies of NBC. The House speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila also called for objectivity in expressing and espousing differences with a view to finding common grounds for resolving them in the national interest. However in its position paper rendered by its Director General, Mr. Balarave Ilelah said while a lot of things need improvement as far as regulating the industry is concerned, the right steps to take would be to strengthen the NBC with more powers so as to enable it to perform effectively rather than duplicate its functions in another statutory body. “We observed that the bill intends to regulate the practice of the broadcasting profession in Nigeria. Therefore, the Commission recommends that there is no need for the bill because there cannot be two statutory regulatory bodies for broadcasting. “Section 1(e) should read ‘regulating the professional conduct of broadcasting practitioners’. There shall be a replacement of the phrase ‘broadcasting profession’ with ‘broadcasting practitioners’ and any other similar phrase in the bill. There shall be deletion of ‘controlling’ and ‘regulating,” he observed. In his presentation, a former director-general of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Prof. Tony Irediadrummed support for the proposed Council said his joy was that the bill is talking about empowering broadcasters to regulate themselves according to international best practices. -Advertisement- POLL “We are talking about looking for the ideal of regulation. The ideal by the international standard is self regulation. We need to look at a bill that is talking about how broadcasters can regulate themselves, not how corporate bodies can regulate themselves. “The media is no longer owned by media alone. When NTA was established, it was the only authority in Nigeria when the NBC now came up in 1992, it was given powers to regulate the NTA that had been a monopoly and the NTA law was amended accordingly. “There is nothing wrong in amending the NBC Act. In fact, it is better to do so. Unfortunately, NBC as a body has not even given us any hope of being in a position to regulate broadcasters because NBC said itself is at variance with the law setting it up. The law that sets up NBC says that it shall compile and request for licenses and set up for presidential approval (section 2 of their law). “Section 9 of their law calls them that they have the power to grant. You cannot have the power to grant and be compiling for somebody to grant. So the NBC Act is already a misconception, who does what, when, where and how,” Iredia argued. Akpauso Akpauso, General Secretary of the Radio, Television &Theatre Arts Workers Union (RATAWU), in support if the proposed Council said “often time, the profession is being infiltrated by quacks who have little or no knowledge of professional broadcasting — therefore, the need for the establishment of a professional body backed by an Act of Parliament in broadcast sector to regulate the practice of the profession is long overdue.We need a body that regulates and oversee the professional conduct of broadcasters just as we in other professions; NBA, ICAN, ANAN and others. “Having gone through the bill, we want to propose, being the industrial union with majority members in the broadcasting sector, we should be given the opportunity to nominate a minimum of two members into the Council of the society to strengthen the power and effectiveness of the Council. “We also propose that only members of the society will have the license to practice as it obtained in other professions. In this case, there will be no room for those practising broadcast journalism for business. “RATAWU Mr. Chairman sir, wishes to throw its immense weight behind the bill with a view to improving the broadcast industry in our nation,” he added. The House of Representatives Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, who declared the public hearing open told participants that the two bills before the House seek to bring about fundamental improvement to the broadcast industry and tailor toward becoming a positive tool for nation-building. “Both of these Bills propose to change the landscape of broadcasting, information dissemination and management in vastly consequential ways. Therefore, disagreements on the objectives and how we seek to achieve those objectives are expected. However, we must remember that governance and nation-building are joint effort. Success or failure depends on our ability to dispassionately consider the issues, understand the facts and propose solutions that promote development and advance the cause of our nationhood,” he said.