LAGOS – The need for communities in Lagos State and the country at large to get involved in family planning was the focus of a campaign organized by Marie Stopes International Organisation Nigeria recently at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LAUTH, in Lagos. Speaking during an interactive session with participants at the event which included interfaith religious organisations, government representatives, heads of Artisan groups, several supporting community-based organisations, representatives of security agencies amongst others, Mr. Bamiteko Martins Ojo, Social Behavioural and Community Change Officer [SBCCO] in charge of Lagos State gave a run-down of the organization’s journey so far in the state. Mr. Ojo while stressing the need for all hands to be on deck to ensure the realization of the objectives of Marie Stopes International, he further observed that there is a need to review and adopt new ways of working to strengthen the partnership. According to him, “leveraging on community support for programme sustainability and ownership is also one of the objectives of this event”. Also speaking, Dr. Ajibola Michael, the medical Officer in charge of Marie Stopes Clinic, Surulere addressed the issue of how synergy with the community can work better.Dr. Ajibola was optimistic that with the interactive session, there will be an increase in the understanding of the vision, mission, objectives, outlet strategies and activities of Marie Stopes International Organisation (MSION). Mrs. Owojuwigbe Clara, who represented the Lagos State Director of Health Education and Promotion called on Participants to support Mariestopes in the advocacy programme on Family Planning. In the same vein, the Director of Nursing Services who was represented by Mrs Adeleke Rachael of Lagos Primary Health Care Board also enjoined participants to assist Mariestopes raise the level of awareness regarding family planning even as she stressed the role of Religious and Traditional leaders. Also in attendance were the Administrative Officer of Area F, ASP Ekwe Osong, Insp. Akomofe Rafat, Community leaders, the Media amongst others.