The Mandate Secretary, Agriculture and Rural Development Secretariat, Mallam Abubakar Ibrahim on Sunday reiterated the determination of the administration to improve the facilities and services of the various Livestock markets to standards befitting the status of the FCT. This is coming following the successful removal of illegal structures and businesses at the Kugbo livestock market by the Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement Team of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). Mallam Abubakar made this remark while throwing more light on the exercise, saying, the activities of illegal squatters and businesses at the Kugbo market have for long constituted incumbrances to efforts of the Secretariat to organise the market for the conduct of Livestock business. This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by DD/Information, Zakari Aliyu. The statement reads: “You are very much aware that the Secretariat has for so long found it difficult to remove the illegal structures. We must thank the FCT task force headed by Comrade. Ikharo Attah for the success recorded, stressing that the Secretariat will be able to add value to the operations in the market. Abubakar added that the Secretariat will immediately take possession of the land to ensure that the illegal operators do not return to the site. ” Going forward I have directed the Animal Husbandry Department to take full possession of the land while we also take a census of the livestock dealers that are currently operating there “ The desire of the Secretariat Abubakr disclosed is to have a market that is all-inclusive with clearly delineated areas for different livestock value chain activities in line with global best practices. -Advertisement- POLL “Our doors will be open to interested private companies to come in the areas of conversion of waste to energy, milk production and other value addition projects”. The Secretary used the opportunity to appeal to dealers of livestock who might want to take advantage of the Eid festive period to make a brisk business to avoid putting up illegal markets as the Taskforce has the mandate of the Administration to not only confiscate the animals on sale but prosecute defaulters. “Ignorance of the law is not an excuse. We have held a series of meetings with officials of livestock dealers in FCT on the need to call their members to order. We equally are appealing to residents to only patronise officially designated Livestock markets where we can guarantee the source of livestock to avoid buying stolen animals”.