Lagos – The price of Jet A1, otherwise known as aviation fuel, has skyrocketed to N800 per litre, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has lamented. The umbrella body of airlines in Nigeria also bemoaned that the continuous free fall of the naira against major currencies has further worsened the operating environment in the country and called for quick intervention by the government. A statement dated July 19, 2022, and signed by Alhaji Abdulmunaf Yunusa Sarina, the President of AON, decried that the fuel situation has consistently taken a dive since the beginning of the year. The operators further lamented that the deplorable airport facilities were also adding to the cost of production. The airlines explained that the current situation was threatening their continuous existence, stressing that their scheduled operations were being negatively affected. The statement read: “The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) would like to notify the general public that the Jet A1 crisis, which began in late February and deteriorated further through the months of March to May, has further worsened and currently threatening the ability of airlines to continue operations. “The price of Jet A1 rose suddenly from N200 in December 2021 to over N400 per litre in February. Today the price has skyrocketed to over N800 per litre. On top of the continuous rise in the price of aviation fuel, supply is at best epileptic and unpredictable at several airports across the country there by causing flight delays, and even cancellations, as airlines queue for fuel at airports across the country.” POLL Besides, the body bemoaned the high cost and scarcity of foreign exchange in the country. According to the operators, the airlines carry out most of their activities in United States dollars, which today sells for N630 to $1 and also in short supply. The AON said that the airlines are in a “life and death” struggle to secure foreign exchange that they need to acquire spare parts to ensure the regular routine and scheduled maintenance of aircraft. They explained that this is a major influence on how quickly a grounded aircraft could be fixed and restored for flight operations, which impacts greatly on the reliability of schedules, growth of the industry and economic growth and sustainability. The operators further decried that the current sordid experience was further made worse by the action of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), which in a notice to airmen (NOTAM) of July 5, 2022 announced the 90 days closure of the domestic runway (18L) of Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Ikeja, beginning on July 8, 2022. AON described the decision of FAAN as unfortunate and ill-timed, especially at a time the airlines were struggling to remain in business, adding that the short notice has further crippled air transport operations in the country and severely inconveniencing the air travellers. “The closure of the main domestic runway of MMA automatically adds an additional 10-15 percent more fuel costs per sector into and out of the domestic airport in Lagos, based on the additional flight and taxi time incurred as a result. “The airlines have already felt these additional costs within the first week of the closure of the runway. This unnecessary burden is unsustainable for a three-month period on the airlines, especially for the fact that the Jet A1 crisis has worsened significantly and the situation remains unpredictable,” the statement added. It stated that the additional 30 minutes taxi time to the apron forced on the airlines by the closure of runway 18L impacts negatively on schedule reliability to sunset airports around the country leading to delays and cancellation of late flights to such airports, but welcomed the effort by FAAN to install runway lighting on the runway after over a decade. AON, however, commended the Federal Government of Nigeria for its concern, and previous actions, which led to a mutually beneficial and cost-effective three-month aviation fuel supply window through the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC). They said the intervention greatly impacted on the aviation sector and solved what would have been a major national embarrassment. But the body regretted that the issue was yet to be fully resolved and appealed to the government to, once again intervene in the situation and address the many lingering issues.