In the Nigerian pidgin parlance, the term “wahala” means trouble, a di­saster or a perilous reality. It is etymo­logically traceable to the Arabic word, “wahla,” which roughly means “trouble, fight or crisis” but has since found its way into many indigenous Nigerian languages. So, whenever a Nigerian says there is “wa­hala,” everyone understands him to mean that there is a problem just the same way the Houston Space ground crew famously understood Astronaut Jack Swigert who, while speaking in the course of Apollo 13 mission moment of panic in 1970, to said: “Ah, Houston, we’ve had a problem” which they mistook for “Houston, we have a prob­lem!”. If Swigert was an astronaut from Nige­ria, he would most probably have said, “La­gos, wahala de o!” after discovering that an internal explosion has crippled parts of the spacecraft in faraway space! Looking at the country’s political horizon, one could also say with a reasonable measure of certainty that there is wahala amounting to “a clear and present danger” situation overhanging the 2023 presidential elections, what with the series of decisional mishaps and disap­pointments that have dogged the electoral season. As the country hopes for a national elec­tion that could usher in a new leadership that is determined to steer the country away from her current path to perdition, all avail­able signals are that, rather than getting salvaged, Nigeria might indeed be sinking even deeper into the mess in which it has been trapped for a very long time due to the unending shenanigans of unpatriotic lead­ers who are quite adept in expropriating the resources of the country for themselves while pushing the people they claim to serve more and more into interminable poverty, insecurity and despair. The governance problems of Nigeria are unquestionably systemic and structural in nature, and they continually influence indi­viduals in positions of leadership into grave misfeasance. What it means is that we are been led by people operating a government that is erected on a very dubious systemic and structurally defective platforms that are deliberately designed to fail and inherently incapable of serving as effective vehicles for the evolution of a viable, progressive and prosperous nation, much less, a healthy modern State as was pretended by the colo­nial masters and conspiratorially acceded to by the indigenous ethnic chieftains who took over from them at Independence. It is therefore not surprising that after all that we have gone through with the unpatri­otic leadership that we have had since 1999, the coming 2023 presidential election is still largely under the grip of the same set of pol­iticians who subscribe to no ideology and respect no moral value about governance and accountability but who are motivated only by the greedy instincts of unbridled primitive acquisitions while the country which they claim to lead has been steadily pillaged into bankruptcy and communal immiseration. For unbroken 16 years, Nigeria was held hostage by the People’s Democratic Party [PDP] which was in fact neither democrat­ic nor people oriented. After that, we were placed into a “One chance Bus” fiendishly driven by the All-Progressive Party Con­gress [APC]which also is neither progres­sive both in its nature and outlook nor receptive of progressive ideas but an evil amalgam of the rumps of many ideologi­cally bankrupt political parties compris­ing mostly of fugitive elements from the PDP who were fleeing the EFFC and inde­corously deploying their loots to secure unrestrained hold on the party and they quickly side-tracked or contaminated the few progressive elements they met there. Regardless of the fact that the two po­litical parties are basically the same, they still managed to fly two separate partisan flags just to sustain a greedy political rat-race. As we head to the next presidential election, the PDP has inexplicably picked Abubakar Atiku in total repudiation of its earlier stance to cede the Presidency to the south and, in particular, to the Southeast. Peter Obi, a former two-term APGA gov­ernor threw his hat into the murky PDP political ring but soon discovered that the extreme monetization of the primaries process was not going to favour him as even “delegates” from his own zone could shamelessly sold off their votes to Atiku who subsequently broke the bank for them. So, the “stingy” Obi hurriedly ditched the PDP and took refuge in the little-known La­bour Party, the same party which Adams Oshiomhole, a foremost labour leader, cal­culatedly abandoned for the APC in order for him to realise his gubernatorial dream because of the weakness of the party’s po­litical structure. -Advertisement- POLL However, since joining the Labour Par­ty, Obi’s political stock has risen sky-high, metamorphosing into a “movement” of sorts. In many respects, Peter Obi fits the profile of the politicians Nigeria needs to­day after the lackluster performances of the incumbent President that are basical­ly traceable to his inscrutable style and his unfortunate ill-health. Nigerians will not hesitate to vote for Obi if they find his electability to be as strong as his eligibili­ty which has placed him up there, at least, in cyberspace, where social media is going wild with a fanatical “Obi-dient” frenzy. But any honest political analyst would tell you that such effervescent protest-mo­tivated ephemeral outbursts hardly trans­late into concrete electoral success because most online activists are usually too far away from polling booths. Meanwhile, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a southerner, who fervently believes it is his “turn” is busily cranking up his nation-wide political machine after he allegedly drove on his bullion vans to a blockbuster victory in the APC presidential primaries. As nice as Obi’s person resume is, it re­mains deeply questionable why he could not see something very wrong with the PDP, the same party that has contributed to the ru­ination of Nigeria during its sixteen years of unbridled plundering, a political scourge which some people aptly akin to the biblical years that the locust viciously destroyed? If the PDP has accepted his candidacy, he would have been the party’s flagbearer to­day, a fact which does not quite corroborate his claim of being different from the rest of the evil pack. However, the pathway for him seems to be the recent and exponential awareness coupled with the massive par­ticipation by the youth as evidenced by the renewed enthusiasm to pick PVCs. Another major source of worry for Obi’s camp is the acute absence of the requisite political structure that can match those al­ready deeply erected by the two major par­ties. Labour is presently nowhere near the position where it can make itself electorally visible across the nooks and corners of Ni­geria within the limited time available. The much expected “Third Force” is not likely to materialise because Nigerians have not been educated enough to understand that they have to fund and own their own politi­cal parties themselves and not the other way round, a reality that has made it too easy for moneybags and godfathers to monopolise national politics. In politics without ideologies, money does the talking and particularly in juris­dictions like ours where independent can­didacy is constitutionally outlawed, an am­bitious billionaire, acting alone, cannot win the presidency unless via a revolutionary route. Ross Perot, for example, a US busi­ness magnate, once attempted to exploit the independent candidacy option only to dis­cover its futility at the polls. Just like Obi, Ross Perot’s personal movement shook the foundations of the US two-party system in 1992 but his energetic “Third-Party” failed woefully to gain any significant electoral traction despite the billions available be­cause the establishment parties, the Dem­ocrats and the Republicans, easily squeezed him out. With the emergent awareness amongst Nigerians, especially the youth, that this country should abandon her corrup­tion-driven politics of the past if she must survive, then there could be bitter protes­tations of unimaginable proportions if the self-entrenched parties manage to foil their expectations. That is the WAHALA ahead.