The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorcha Ayu, the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar, the governors on the platform of the party and other stakeholders have reacted to the party’s victory in the just concluded Osun State governorship election. Sunday Independent had earlier reported that the that candidate of PDP, Sen. Ademola Adeleke defeated the incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola with 403, 371 against 375, 027 in Saturday’s election across the state. While Ayu mocked the Osun state governor, Oyetola, who denied the party the use of any public facility in the state capital during the party mega-rally, the governors on the platform of the party said that the victory is a lesson for all and that this is the time for the All Progressives Congress (APC) to leave the stage. Atiku, who said that the ship of hope is already at the harbour, added that the referendum on the administration of the APC has commenced with the verdict of the people of Osun State in electing Senator Adeleke. This is even as the former President of the Senate, David Mark said that Osun’s victory is PDP’s gateway to 2023. The former National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, described the victory as a clear affirmation and demonstration of the people’s goodwill. Ayu, in a statement said: “A few days ago, the defeated and outgoing Governor, HE Adegboyega Oyetola and his party, the APC, did everything to frustrate us. This included denying us the use of any public facility in the state capital for our mega-rally. “We had to use the party’s state secretariat. As it were, we couldn’t have access to the stadium, but we had access to the people’s hearts, loyalty and votes. “The convincing win of 403, 371 against Gov. Oyetola’s 375, 027 is ample proof of that.” POLL Congratulating Adeleke, Ayu, who took a historical voyage into the past elections said, “twelve years ago, specifically on 26th November 2010, the PDP lost Osun state – not through the ballot-box – but via a judicial coup (ruling). “That coup (ruling) terminated the action-packed tenure of HE Olagunsoye Oyinlola. And since then, Osun has been frozen in executive misrule and underdevelopment. “Four years ago, the PDP won the governorship, but our Candidate, Sen. Adeleke, was robbed of victory in broad daylight. We went back to the drawing-board, and today, we have reclaimed our victory.” The Chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum and governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, in a statement said, “this victory is as a result of the sagacity, hardwork, teamwork, skillful campaigns, efficient resource allocation, openness and humility exhibited by the Governor-elect. “He concentrated on issues that mattered most to Osun people and they responded in kind, bestowing on him and PDP an earth-shaking victory of historic proportions. “This victory is a lesson for all. It shows that everyone matters in politics, particularly the electorate. It also confirms the famous dictum that ‘God’s time is the best’. “We must remain vigilant and anticipate all the antics the dying All Progressives Congress (APC) will come up with. But rest assured that we are all with you in this great effort to reset the trajectory and story of Nigeria, positively. “However, when all is said and done, IT IS TIME FOR THE APC TO GO. It is time to rid Nigeria of the disaster called APC. The suffering of the ordinary Nigerian has reached a crescendo, a breaking point. APC SHOULD JUST PACK AND GO, as PDP, Atiku/ Okowa are coming to rescue and rebuild Nigeria.” Atiku on his part said: “At this point in time when our country needs to take a break from the shameful effects of bad governance, it shall be on record that Osun State provided the compass into that brighter future that awaits us at the horizon. “The referendum on the administration of the APC has commenced with the verdict of the people of Osun State in electing Senator Ademola Adeleke, while we know that the 2023 general election will be a full referendum. “It is inconceivable that Nigerians will reward the APC for the failings of the last seven years. And in a state like Osun, for example, it’s been a long time since the people last felt the effect of good governance. “The ship of hope is already at the harbour under the umbrella of the Peoples Democratic Party. We shall intensify the work to ensure that we uproot all vestiges of bad governance and false hopes towards the 2023 election. The Imole (light) that has started to shine from Osun shall soon have national coverage.” In his congratulating message, David Mark said that Adeleke’s victory is a testimony of the PDP’s acceptance by the people of Osun state, who desire positive changes. He said: “Your perseverance, steadfastness, focus, determination and unwavering commitment to the wellbeing of the citizens of Osun state has paid off. Their votes are investments and trust in you to lead them to the promised land.” The former Senate President told Adeleke to see his victory as a call to higher responsibility, the power to do good and emancipate the people from deprivation, poverty and want. He praised the people of Osun state for remaining steadfast and believing in Adeleke’s capacity to deliver dividends of democracy to them, hoping that the governor-elect will live up to expectation. Senator Mark praised the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC), the security operatives and the media for the enabling environment that guaranteed free, fair and credible election in Osun state. He said the PDP victory in Osun state shows that “the PDP is the party of choice and the vehicle to usher In positive changes for Nigeria in 2023.” Secondus on his part said: “By this brave and courageous act, Osun people have shown their determination to take their collective destiny into their own hands and for this PDP and all lovers of democracy are proud of them.” The former National Chairman lavished praises on all those who contributed greatly to the sweet victory in particular, the PDP 2023 Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and his Vice Presidential candidate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. He also commended Governor Duoye Diri of Bayelsa state and his national campaign team, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state who manned the situation room, the Chairman of Governors Forum, Hon Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, former Senate President Bukola Saraki and the National Chairman Prof Iyorchia Ayu and his  NWC and others. Secondus, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ike Abonyi, also commended the civil society groups for checkmating the electoral system for good results.