LAGOS – Lagos State government on Tuesday organised a round-table discussion on the proposed 30-year Development plan being proposed by the Lagos State Government in August. The discussion, organized by the Economic Intelligence Unit, Lagos State Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, took place at the Protea Hotel, CBD, Alausa, Ikeja, had in attendance various economic experts and researchers. In his welcome address, the Commissioner, Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, Samuel Egube, reiterated that the objective of the discussion was aimed at previewing various contributions received from both private and public perspective contributors that were earlier contacted leading thoughts on Lagos Development update and also to examine what should be the economic outlook for remaining half year in 2022 and draw recommendation for insightful decision making guides for further support to governance in the benefit of collective Lagosians. He posited that as the population in Lagos is changing, so also the demographic nature of the state, just as he appealed that the economic stakeholders and experts proffer enabling solutions and wherewithal that should be adopted to adapt to the challenges. “The objective of the discussion aimed at previewing various contributions received from both private and public perspective contributors, who were earlier contacted to provide leading thoughts on “Lagos Development Update” and also to examine what should be the “Economic Outlook” for remaining ½ of the year 2022 and draw recommendation for insightful decision making guides for further support to governance in the benefit of collective Lagosians”, Egube said. He also appealed to all that were present to advise on what actually should Lagos do to adapt to the challenges ahead as far as the 30-year development plan is concerned. “How do you economists advise we communicate to Lagosans long standing horizon, especially on to carry the population along, how do we communicate to people at Oke-Arin Market and all Market men and women across Lagos State all what we intend to do and how it would benefit them. We can’t be thinking about Lagos and not thinking about Nigeria. How do we incorporate our economy in the real economic agenda etc”, Egube inquired. POLL He, therefore, solicited their well tailored contribution in all necessary indices for the Economic intelligence Unit’s guide into collating their thoughts and contributions. Recall that last month, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said the development plan that would be launched at the forthcoming 9th Economic Summit of the State (known as Ehingbeti), was developed in pursuit of the state’s physical development. He said that Lagos State Development Plan 2052 has been developed with a set of clear objectives across four strategic dimensions, which are to position Lagos on the track to achieving its vision, adding that the dimensions to this plan are to keep a thriving economy that will make Lagos a robust, healthy and growing economy with adequate jobs and strategic investments to sustain growth. Also in their presentations, Professor Femi Shaibu, from University of Lagos, who talked on report on Lagos Development update and forecast, just as he advised that Lagosians should desist from using negative index but rather should dwell further on the prosperity index to sell Lagos to the outside world and investors. Other contributors include Dr Adebayo Adedokun, also discussed on the sectoral performance of economic affairs in Lagos, like transportation, works and infrastructure, Agriculture and Commerce and Industry. He said Lagos should look at the aforementioned avenue and utilize same to attract investors as well .Professor Lannre Olaniyan, Centre for sustainable Development, University of Ibadan, dwell extensively on economic outlook and development updates and advised strongly that Lagos should not toy with it’s data base, adding that Lagos State should have plausible economic growth growth data at the state level especially for GDP and associated variables. Also, the Director, Lagos Economic Intelligent Unit, Ojo Olayinka Modupe, appealed to all stakeholders to rally round and proffer useful hints on how the develop plan proposal could be achieved and have desired achievement.