 LAGOS – St. Cyril Cancer Treatment Foun­dation has launched ‘One Million Individuals Fighting Against Cancer’ (OMIFAC) Initiative with the aim of increasing the num­ber of cancer treatment centres in Nigeria. Speaking at the launch of the initiative, its Executive Director and Founder of the foundation, Mrs. Mojisola Animashaun, the foundation set up cancer treat­ment centres so that more people can have the opportunity to be treated and get cured of cancer. Animashaun explained that as the organisation is growing, it became necessary to do more to help more people to have access to cancer treatments. She said, “We want to start a comprehensive cancer centre, which would include Chemo­therapy which we are doing now, a radiotherapy centre, surgery, and diagnostic work as well. Instead of us just doing only the Chemother­apy and sending the patients out to go get the other treatments, we can do everything in-house. “We can maintain the quality; we can maintain how we help them in terms of ensuring that many people who walk through our door get treated with cost management. We started this initiative to be able to build a comprehensive Cancer Centre. The Initiative is called OMIFAC, an acronym for One Million Indi­viduals Fighting Against Cancer. “We have the concept because in Nigeria, what we have are mainstream that cut across ev­ery state. We have a vast popula­tion, but most of our population does not have enough money, so instead of asking a few people to donate lots of money, we are ask­ing many people to donate little money monthly. So the whole es­sence of it is one million people donating One Thousand Naira every month for 12 months.” She explained the centre is self-sustaining. “The patients are charged as they will pay anywhere else. We maintain an internation­al standard of treatment for our patients. We ensure our patients can get treated because we help them. Those who are financially well to do, can get their treatment and go, while for those who do not have money, we ensure that we try to help them find a way to get treat­ment, and we run fundraising for them. We have people who donate to this initiative,” she stated. -Advertisement- POLL Mrs. Animashaun explained that the burden of Cancer in Nigeria is a heavy one because it continues to increase, and the number going up every day; some times the cost is too much for the patient to pay and get treatment.