Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun has said that victory for the All Progressives Congress in the July 16 Osun state governorship election would enable him build on achievements he had so far recorded since assuming leadership of the state. He also predicted that from all indications, APC would record a landslide victory in the poll. The governor said this during an engagement meeting with Osun Chapter of All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), on Sunday in Osogbo. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor, appealed to electorate not to be deceived by desperate politicians. Oyetola, who noted he had been serving the state diligently since the beginning of his administration, said those who lacked administrative capacity must not be allowed to truncate the development the state is currently witnessing. “My desire is to win the July 16 election with a wide margin. The electorate are on my side, my achievements are there to speak for me and God is willing to crown my efforts,” he said. Oyetola also appealed to the electorate to resist the temptation of selling their votes, adding that they should not allow those who have declared to win the election with dollars and euros, disrupt steady growth Osun is recording. He said, ” I want to appeal to the electorate to resist the temptation of selling their votes to desperate politicians. POLL “Osun is not for sale, neither are the people of the state for sale. Those who are bragging around with dollars to win the election have nothing to offer. “They are only desperate to get the power without anything tangible to offer the state and we must not allow them to have access to our treasury.” Oyetola assured that he will never renege on his campaign promises, adding that the general welfare of the masses will continue to be his utmost priority. He said, “My second term will be for service more than ever before. I will not relent because that is why I am the governor. “The welfare of the masses, prompt payment of workers’ salaries, pension, empowerment, youth engagement, improved economy, health, education, infrastructure among others will not stop.” The governor also warned politicians against involving in violence, adding that election should not be seen as a do-or-die affair. Oyetola said that anyone caught perpetrating violence before, during and after the election will be dealt with in line with the law. “Osun is known for peace and we should not allow anything, nor even the election to truncate the peaceful atmosphere. Election should not be seen as a do-or-die affair, but rather as an avenue to serve humanity. “I appeal to all the political gladiators in the election to abide by the rules of the election for the sake of peace. Anyone caught, no matter how highly placed, causing violence will be dealt with by the security agencies”, he said. The governor, however, said his administration would continue to support the farmers with necessary farm inputs and implements. Oyetola said his government had set aside 1000 hectares of land for farming to boost food sufficiency and make the state the food basket of the south-west zone. The initiative, according to him, is to rejuvenate the agricultural sector by making it more attractive and productive to farmers, particularly the young ones. In his remarks, AFAN Chairman, Mr Suleiman Araokanmi, commended the governor for his various interventions in agriculture sector in the state Araokanmi, however, appealed to government to give more farm inputs to farmers to enhance more food production and pledged the support of the association for Oyetola’s re-election.