LAGOS – Only a small percentage of Nigerians appear to be aware of the law, which was passed in May 2007. No one has been charged for violating any of its provisions, despite the fact that people with HIV/AIDS continue to face discrimination in various forms. Dr. Oladipupo Fisher, Head, Project, Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA), lamented that many Nigerians, including journalists, are unaware of the law during a day-long training session LSACA organised recently to educate the media in Ikeja, the state’s capital. He said, “The media is responsible for affecting the citizenry, and as such, the role of the media remains central in the effort to mitigate HIV-related stigma and discrimination through the dissemination of accurate information and awareness creation. “In doing so, the media, however, requires a clear understanding of the State’s HIV Ant-Stigma Law.” Concerning the elimination of mother-to-child HIV transmission, the LSACA Head said that the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) is essential in order to achieve the 2030 eradication target of the virus. In his presentation titled, “Epidemiology of HIV/AIDS,” Fisher lamented that the high influx of people into Lagos daily, stigma and discrimination as well as the huge population of the state is the reason there is a high prevalence of HIV infection in the State. He pointed out that there is also a high prevalence of HIV among females in the reproductive age group, stressing that more intervention is required to protect them. He said that attention is also focused on the 0-4 year age group. -Advertisement- POLL Among the female reproductive age group, those in the range of 15 to 24 years record higher HIV infection, according to the LSACA chief. Fisher disclosed that non-governmental organisations (NGOs), faith-based groups, and community-based organisations are involved in disseminating information on HIV. He said that the dissemination of the information is targeting different population groups. According to him, traditional birth attendants (TBAs) are made to undergo induction courses on HIV. He added that the government is making efforts to regulate the sector. Fisher stated that people living with disabilities are also vulnerable to the spread of HIV. According to the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency helmsman, information on HIV/AIDS prevention is provided for the visually impaired in Brail prints. “Don’t engage in multiple sexes, use condoms to prevent HIV,” Fisher advised, adding: “Know your HIV status.” He emphasised that 80 percent of transmission of the infection occurs through sexual intercourse. The LSACA project head stressed that 80 percent adherence is required of people living with HIV (PLWHIV) for antiretroviral therapy (ART) to work, otherwise, the person will go into clinical failure, and will become drug-resistant. He, therefore, advised people living with HIV to use their medicines as prescribed by the doctor. Similarly, Barrister Josephine Ijekhuemen, Principal Partner, Odikpo & Associates, and Executive Director, Center for Rights and Development, said, presented an overview of Lagos State Law for the Protection of People Living with HIV. She narrated how people living with HIV have been discriminated against by educational institutions, insurance companies, landlords, workplaces, and religious organisations, among others. Ijekhuemeh highlighted Novel provisions of the “Law for the Protection of Persons Living with HIV and Affected by AIDS in Lagos State and for Other Connected Matters.” She also pointed out the challenges of enforcement that the law faces. “We have cases we have done where one of the parties have come up to say they don’t want to continue with the case because his wife has threatened to commit suicide. This was despite the assurance that their testimonies will be done in such a way that their identities won’t be revealed. “If people are prosecuted when the offense is committed at work or business environment and the media projects that, then people will be afraid to discriminate and their rights will be protected.” Commenting on the training, she said,“The message is that there’s a law in Lagos State to protect the rights of the people living with HIV/AIDS because people living with HIV are being treated differently. “Perhaps they don’t understand that this infection cannot be transmitted the way they thought it can be transmitted. “These people living with HIV have suffered so much inhumane and degrading treatments as a result of their status. “This law is meant to correct that and protect them to ensure constitutional provisions are enforced through criminal legislation. The purpose of the training is to let the members of the media know existence of them this law “The law if adequately interpreted and effectively enforced, may go a long way in reducing incidences of stigma and discrimination by ensuring rights, and protection of persons living with HIV/AIDS and persons affected. “As members of the press, having a grasp of the provisions of this law will also assist in your reportage and research when issues that affect persons living with and affected by HIV/AIDS arise.” However, she noted that “some provisions are minimal that people can actually pay fine before committing the offense, the law needs to be stronger in terms of language, direction, thrust, and purpose.” Speaking on why nobody has been prosecuted in the past 15 years she noted, “Offense has been taking place definitely but the prosecution has been zero because even the offended is facing stigma even from the close ones. “So, it makes it impossible for even the offenders to report and stand to fight until he/she gets justice.” Ijekhuemeh, a partner at Odikpo, Okpe & Associates, said: “Discrimination and stigmatization are usually overt, not covert. I think that is why the law is having difficulty being enforced.” The barrister said that it is necessary to sensitise Lagos residents on the letters of the law. Former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, assented to the “Law for the Protection of Persons Living with HIV and Affected by AIDS in Lagos State and for Other Connected Matters” on the 18th day of May 2007.