***Calls For Buhari’s Resignation LAGOS – The African Action Congress (AAC) has said that the recent attacks on President Muhammadu Buhari’s convoy, the Kuje Correctional Centre and death of several security operatives across the country are indications that the current All Progressives Congress (APC) controlled Federal Government is clueless and cannot take the country anywhere, even as it called on the President to resign to save the nation from further shame. Comrade Femi Adeyeye, AAC National Publicity Secretary, in a statement on Saturday said that the unfortunate events had shown that the country had become unsafe, while the Buhari administration had failed woefully in all areas. The party said that the only answer to having lasting peace, justice, and equity in the country was for all oppressed people of Nigeria to unite, rise and kick out the failed system, which it said had become symptomatic of bad governance, mass corruption and gross impunity. The AAC stated: “It has become trite that state institutions are now easily subdued by terrorists. Nigerians are still mourning the Owo massacre, Abuja-Kaduna incident and many more tragic events with scores still in the captivity of terrorists. “No one takes seriously the shameless statements of the regime’s  poor publicity secretaries. Action is what is needed! Garba Shehu and his battery of garbage. “Our party, the African Action Congress (AAC) is expressly clear that the solution to the tragic situations in Nigeria is revolution. The only other option is the continuation of the wars we are witnessing. “It is the ruling class that is the cause of the war. We need all youths and the working class to come together and clean the Augean stable in classical clinical mass actions that would advance the #EndSARS experience. The time to do the very needful is Now!” POLL The party stressed that Nigerians must not fold their arms and watch till everyone was swept out, adding that they must rise at this time to condemn this act and pressurise failed President Buhari to resign, while the citizens would set radical standards on the political, economic growth and development of the country.”