LAGOS  – The Lagos Government has stated that it has achieved significant strides in the provision of affordable quality accommodation for residents of the state by taking advantage of the Public-Private Partnerships financing model. Mr. Ope George, the Special Adviser to the State Governor on PPP, in a statement said through the model, several completed, ongoing and proposed mass housing projects in different parts of the state are ongoing. He said public-private partnership arrangements had enabled the State Government to deliver affordable quality housing units to hundreds of residents of the state in line with the state’s unwavering commitment to bridge the gap in the housing sector. According to the statement George emphasised that one of the projects was the Housing Estate Development at Igbogbo, Ikorodu, stressing that the estate would be built on 8.8 hectares of land by the Lagos State Government and Messrs. M-Bridge Limited. Another significant project, he declared was the 20 units’ luxury residential apartment to be built in partnership with Messrs. Westerfield Expert Construction Limited and the State Government, stressing that this would be located in Abuja on the parcel of land owned by Lagos State Liaison Office in Abuja. George added that the Lagos State Government was also partnering with Messrs. Brooke Assets and Resources Limited to develop another 20 hectares of land into a mini city of 3,546 units of one-bed and two- bed apartments in Imota, Ikorodu. The Special Adviser noted that similar multiple apartments were currently being built by the Lagos State Government at Ilubirin, Abraham Adesanya, Ajah as well as GRA, Ikeja. The GRA, Ikeja project has pointed out had been approved for the erection of over 80 apartment units on 6,2894 Sqm located within the Lagos State old secretariat building, Ikeja. -Advertisement- POLL He noted further that other affordable apartments has been erected and delivered at Bayview Estate in Ikate Elegushi; Lateef Jakande Housing Estate, Igando; Badagry Housing Estate; Prince Abiodun Ogunleye Housing Estate, Igbogbo; and Babatunde Olushola Benson Housing Estate, Ibeshe.