The Rivers state Governor, Nyesom Wike has been urged to embark on a policy of decongesting the city of Port Harcourt with infrastructure and concentrate more in developing other cities that can reduce over population in the state capital. Speaking in an interview in Port Harcourt, the governorship candidate of National Rescue Movement, NRM, for the 2023 general elections in Rivers state, Ambassador Sogboma Jackrich called on the state Governor to decentralize the state by shifting some of the infrastructure to other areas. Jackrich insisted that Rivers state was too big to be a one-city state, adding that Port Harcourt Campus Law School, the Real Madrid Academy and the flyover bridges should have been moved to other areas to create more cities besides Port Harcourt. “We are out to prove a point to the old politicians in Rivers state that money is not everything. We don’t have the kind of money that they have, but we are ready to prove a point to them. Politics is not as expensive as they see it. We are trying to manage the little that we have even as we go into the race. I am coming with a new vision, a new ideology. “I am coming to change the narrative especially improving the lives the indigent people of the state. The present government does not have sympathy for the old pensioners in the state. People who have served the state meritoriously for thirty six years deserve the best the state can offer. They should live a good life, not to be impoverished. Rivers state is very rich but we lack leadership. “We need the right people to control our resources. I am not a regular politician but a political rights activist. I have come to bridge the gap between the youths and government. Our youths must have a say in governance. Rivers state is too big to be a one-city state. Look at the law school with good quality. Why should we bring such structure to the city of Port Harcourt? Look at the Real Madrid Academy. why not take such facility to Isaka? Isaka has produced national and international sport stars. Why not take some of these facilities to a place like Etche where there is enough land. We will decentralize these facilities. “We will take some of these facilities to places like Ogoni, Etche and other places where there is land. To some extent, we are proud of what Governor Nyesom Wike is doing. I was opportune to be a local government chairman, though it lasted for just a few months. I brought peace to the council area. One thing I kick against Wike’s government is the concentration of flyover bridges all over Port Harcourt and this does not help in easing off the traffic problem it was to solve”, Jackrich explained. On how to improve on the security architecture of the state, the former Asari Toru Council caretaker chairman said creating employment opportunities and investing heavily in education were the best ways of tackling insecurity in the state. POLL “We must invest heavily in education. Any government that fails to invest in education, will definitely face insecurity. Increase bursaries of students. Pay the minimum wage of workers. When you invest in education, give employments to those who need employments, it will quell insecurity. “Julius Berger is one company in Rivers state that handles so much jobs in the state. But there is no corporate social responsibility. The youths are not given employment. No employment for the host communities, how then do you quell insecurity? How can you pay your worker between N800 to N900 per day? How much is a plate of food. We must engage our youths meaningfully. How much is our GDR in Rivers state. We have not seen the details of our annual budget in this state”, he said.