Former Equalities Minister and Nigerian-born Kemi Badenoch has announced her candidacy for Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (UK), promising “limited government” and a “focus on the essentials.” The Saffron Walden MP stated that she supports lower taxes “to boost growth and productivity, accompanied by strict spending discipline.” She also slammed “identity politics,” writing in The Times that Boris Johnson was “a symptom of the problems we face, not the cause of them.” “Platitudes and empty rhetoric have worn people down.” “It is not enough to love our country, our people, or our party,” she said. “What is lacking is an intellectual grasp of what it takes to run the country in an era of increased polarisation, protectionism, and populism, all exacerbated by social media.” She stated that today’s Britain requires “a nimble centre-right vision” that “can achieve things despite entrenched opposition from a cultural establishment that will not accept that the world has moved on from Blairism.” Badenoch’s declaration capped off a day in which many Conservatives declared their intentions in the leadership race. Rishi Sunak announced his long-awaited candidacy, with public support from Commons Leader Mark Spencer, former Tory Party co-chairman Oliver Dowden, former chief whip Mark Harper, ex-ministers Liam Fox and Andrew Murrison, and MPs Sir Bob Neill and Paul Maynard. POLL Kemi Badenoch sheds tears as she recalls her childhood in Nigeria. It has only been five months since her father, Femi Adegoke, died of a brain tumour. He had no idea that three years after joining the government, his daughter would be launching a bid to succeed Boris Johnson as Prime Minister. But, according to Badenoch, her father instilled in her a sense of “personal responsibility.” She resigned from the government last week in order to force Johnson’s resignation. She has now explained her reasons for running for Conservative Party leader in an interview with The Telegraph. In a nutshell, she believes the government has gone astray. “I believe we have accepted an incorrect consensus – that the government should be involved in and do everything,” she said. However, Badenoch, who resigned as equalities and local government minister last week in a joint resignation with four friends and colleagues, believes the government is “doing many things badly and doing things in the wrong way.” (SOURCE: TVN News)