DAMATURU – Yobe State Ministry of Health and Human Services, Dr Mohammed Lawan Gana, has revealed that vulnerable groups would soon benefit from free healthcare services under the expanded free health scheme of the state government. Gana during the orientation organized for healthcare service providers on the Buni expanded free healthcare services scheme for the healthcare providers in the state enumerated achievements of the state government. The event took place at Cedars Hall of Fame in Damaturu the state capital which was witnessed by participants drawn from selected secondary health facilities across the state and the only tertiary health facility in the state, Yobe State University Teaching Hospital Damaturu. Also speaking during the orientation, the Commissioner of Health and Human Services, Dr. Muhammad Lawan Gana, said, “since 2009, Yobe State Government has been implementing free medical treatment and providing free drugs to pregnant women, children under five years and accident victims in the state”. According to him, the state government under the administration of Governor Mai Mala Buni saw the need to look at more sustainable ways of addressing issues of providing sound healthcare services for free to vulnerable people in the state. The Honourable Commissioner said “the programmes such as social equity programme were introduced where the state government approved the sum of 200 million naira that cover for the enrollment of over twenty-two thousand most vulnerable, pregnant women and children less than five in each of the 178 political wards in the state. The Commissioner added that “through the basic healthcare provision fund (BHCPF) programme under the Yobe State Contributory Healthcare Management Agency (YSCHMA), Yobe state government enrolled and registered the most vulnerable segments of the society”. He further said that the Buni expanded free healthcare services scheme basically is to provide free healthcare services to the population under one umbrella to avoid duplication and to ensure that the right population benefits from the health programme. Dr Lawan Gana added that the orientation was organized to sensitise the healthcare service providers to enable them to understand the structures, processes and procedures needed to put in place in their various health facilities.