 ‘A Smarter You’ Academy, a Pan-African Initiative is set to engage and retrain the African youth, in view to improve their skills, make them more produc­tive, self-generated solutions, entrepreneurial, possess a world-class quality personality and mindset, and resourceful in de­veloping their society. The academy seeks to achieve its goals by providing necessary information training and up-to-date skills for leadership and ex­cellence in every field of human enterprise. Its exclusive off-ses­sion and summer programme is designed to provide thorough training in several carefully se­lected courses tailored to deliver a more highly resourceful and productive African youth. At its recent launch in Lagos, Mr. Henry Akasili the Executive Director expressed the organisa­tion’s desire to present an alter­native education, tailored to solve challenges peculiar to Africa, end the brain drain of best minds who are shipped to develop the western world, and contribute significantly to giving the lives of the African Youth more value and meaning by a wholesome education. “In the long run, the academy will contribute significantly to the growth of Nigeria’s econo­my because we are presenting a new kind of Education that will foster the creation of sustainable businesses by the youths, helping them unlock their latent abilities and channel them rightly towards productive vices that will grow their entrepreneurial and em­ployability skills.” The Academy’s Technical Director, Mr Ugo Dibia added, “One of the problems we face in Nigeria and Africa as a whole is our educational system which is orchestrated to produce admin­istrators and not creative minds. The academy is the solution to these problems as we have a lot of people coming out of school without being equipped, or in­formed and going from the uni­versity system to a workspace. We are providing a tailor-based edu­cational curriculum that helps to inspire and build the creative minds of young people. We want to bridge the gap between youths and the workplace because a lot of times people complain there are not enough jobs, especially in Nigeria but I beg to differ. The challenge is not that there are not enough jobs but that the students coming out of our universities are not employable. Most of them lack employability skills which is what we are going to teach and give them the skills to succeed in any industry, and also give entre­preneur skills to boost creativity.”