YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Government, on Tuesday, disbursed funds to 70 beneficiaries of its Women and Youths Empowerment Programme from the Ogbia Local Government Area of the state under the second phase of the scheme. The empowerment scheme of N200,000 each, which targets men and women engaged in small scale businesses in the 105 wards across the state, will continue till the end of the Governor Douye Diri-led administration. Speaking at the disbursement and biometric capture exercise for the Ogbia LGA beneficiaries in Yenagoa, the Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Ayibaina Duba, said the Diri’s government initiated the programme to boost the state’s economy through small scale businesses. He said, “The novelty of this particular scheme is that it is targeted at people who are involved in small scale businesses, it’s not just for anybody. It is for people who have something they are doing, either fashion designing, welding, carpentry, mechanic, whatever you are doing as business. “Government is trying to make sure that they are assisted one way or the other by giving them some sort of incentive, physical cash, for them to be able to add to their businesses so that their businesses will grow.” Duba emphasised that there was no political consideration in the selection of beneficiaries as the only criterion that entitles people to the fund is involvement in one trade of business. According to him, the beneficiaries would be properly monitored by a team set up by the government to ensure that the purpose of the scheme was achieved. He reiterated that the administration from its inception had remained a responsible and responsive government that was identifying the problems of the people and also solving them within available scarce resources. POLL Besides, Duba explained that the essence of the biometric capture was aimed at preventing a situation where some beneficiaries would seek to be part of other batches of the empowerment scheme, adding that “we want it to go as wide as possible”. The commissioner advised the beneficiaries to take the fund seriously and realise that government is supporting them in their small businesses to grow beyond where they presently are. He further said, “By our estimation, by the time we finish this programme for this first term, we are targeting over 5,000 beneficiaries and these people must be people who are involved in business or trade. “You don’t expect 100 per cent success rate in any business or such enterprise but we believe that if we can have 5,000-plus beneficiaries, definitely there will be a larger chunk of people that will come back to praise God that they are success stories.”