ABUJA – No fewer than 60 elite marathoners will lead over 2000 runners to a challenge for the jumbo $80, 000 prize money as the maiden Abuja lnternational Marathon (AIM) debuts on December 17, this year, organisers have announced. Femi Abegunde, the Project Coordinator of the marathon disclosed this on Thursday at a press conference in Abuja to herald the significant milestone event he said, will not only showcase the beauty and ambience of the nation’s capital city to the world but attract the attention of great athletes, fans and global media to the country. According to Mr. Abegunde, the foreign athletes will be joined by local runners for the $80,000 prize money, adding that locals will not miss out on the big payout. He said:“The 42-kilometre race will begin from the City Gate through the interesting parts of the FCT and end at the Eagles Square, with 60 runners (local and foreign), as the winner will go home with $80,000.The desire to create an Abuja international Marathon is to showcase the City, attract investors, and boost tourism and the economy as it is done in other world commercial cities like London and New York. “Our desire is to create a Marathon that can compete with the best anywhere in the world. Abuja is a beautiful shop, which is closed. This even could have been on since 2021 if not for the Pandemic that ravaged the whole world,” he said. Also speaking during the press conference to usher in the event, Media Head, Mr. Olukayode Thomas said the benefits will surpass it as Nigeria and FCT stands to gain more than the prize money through the visitors that will throng the country. “The event goes beyond prize money as hotels, restaurants, taxi drivers, retailers of goods and other business owners will benefit a lot,”He disclosed that New York Marathon alone attracted more than $400million into the economy.He added that the prize money may not be more than $1m but it brings more than $400m every year. He said prizes will be given to the best coverage among the media, before and during the event in 11 categories. -Advertisement- POLL In attendance at the event were the Managing Director of the organising company, Unicentral, Mrs. Ogunfumiloro Suzana, a representative of the National Assembly, and Senator Ayo Akinyelure, a representative of the FCT Minister, Mr. Lucas Istafanos, and a host other dignitaries. 