LOKOJA – The Chairman, Governing Council of Prime Polytechnic Jida Ajaokuta LGA, Kogi state ,Bishop Anierobi Emeka has called on the Territory Education Trust Fund (Tetfund ) today as a matter of exigencies capture private Institutions in its intervention schemes to assist in their funding challenges. This is as the Institution has held her 10th Matriculation ceremony, with 100 students taking oath of allegiance for ND and HND. The Chairman, made the call at the 2022 matriculation ceremony of Prime Polytechnic, held at the Jida Bassa campus of the institution on Saturday Arch. Bishop Emeka disclosed that the contributions of Private Tertiary Institutions to the development of education in the country remains unquantifiable, as it has become necessary for support like is currently enjoyed by Federal and State Government Tertiary Institutions to be extended to private institutions in the country. The Proprietor cautioned against some State Governments in the country turning Polytechnics to Universities, described the action as the wrong way to go in view of the demand and importance of technology to the nation’s Socio economic development. He maintained that Polytechnic education is majorly concerned about technological advancement, lamented that it is a misnomer for Polytechnics to be converted to Universities instead of establishing more. While he described discipline in Prime Polytechnic as major priority, constituting 60% while academics makes up 40%, pointed out that the Prime Polytechnic Jida Bassa is committed to graduating employers of labour and not job seekers. The Proprietor disclosed that the Prime Polytechnic has had its first and second set of students completing their NYSC, said the third set of students are soon to be mobilized. -Advertisement- POLL He added that eight Students of the Polytechnic were in the last academic session expelled for indiscipline, pointed out that the institution has zero tolerance for cultism and other anti social vices. The Proprietor who also doubles as the International President for Private Polytechnics in West Africa, urged citizens not to despise the humble beginning of Prime Polytechnic, disclosed that it is an institution passionately committed to Technology. The clergyman, appreciated the administration of Gov. Yahaya Bello for making the State secured all year round, urged him to sustain the feat. Earlier in a remarks, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Prof. Emmanuel Anierobi, disclosed that the Prime Polytechnic is committed to academic excellence and delivering the best of innovators as graduates and employers of labour as well as the next generation of Leaders. Highlights of the 2022 matriculation of Prime Polytechnic was the administration of oath on about 100 ND and HND students admitted for the academic session. Prime Polytechnic Jida Bassa, located along Lokoja Ajaokuta Federal Highway was founded in 2012, got Federal Government approval in 2015, was licensed to admit ND and HND graduates, and got her Courses accredited by the National Board For Technical Education.