DANIEL ABIA Weeks after the special conventions of the two major political parties: the state’s ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and the main opposition All Progressives Congress, APC, echoes of the outcomes still reverberate across Rivers State. Keen followers of t the political developments of the state easily agree that the fallout of both electoral exercises has altered its political equation, at least, for now. This conclusion, they argue, arises from the fact that four indigenes of the state tested their popularity during the conventions, but could not pick any of the tickets. In all, three Rivers State indigenes- the immediate past Minister of Transportation, and immediate past governor, Rotimi Chubuike Amaechi, and Dr. Tien Jack-Rich contested the APC ticket, which was won by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State. While Amaechi was the runners-up, Jack-Rich could not muster any vote On his part, the state incumbent governor, Nyesom Wike, scored 317 votes, losing to the eventual winner and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who emerged PDP presidential flagbearer. According to those close to the power struggle in the state, the outcomes of the primaries have a lot of impacts on their political structures in the state, and the ability of Wike and his predecessor to anoint candidates of their parties ahead of next year’s governorship election in the state. Already, Governor Wike has already anointed, Siminialaye Fubara, former Accountant-General of the State to succeed him in the Brick House in 2023; while Amaechi pitched his tent with his widely acclaimed business partner, Architect Tonye Patrick Cole, as the APC’s sole candidate for the poll. Simi and Cole, are, however, not the only contenders for the top job, as Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, expects that his name would be on the ballot for next year’s election, despite the fact that governorship primaries of his party, APC, have been done and a winner produced. It would be recalled that in the aftermath of the 2015 polls, former Governor Amaechi has had a running battle establishing a political dynasty in the state with little success. At the election, his former Commissioner for Works, Dr. Peterside Adol Dakuku, clinched the APC ticket against the popular expectation that Magnus Abe would be on the ballot. Wike defeated Dakuku in the court. -Advertisement- POLL In the 2019 poll and following the litany of court cases, Rivers APC was not on the ballot, following which Amaechi reportedly backed a certain Engineer Biokpomabo Awara of the little known African Action Congress, AAC, in his determination to unseat the PDP in the state. The coalition, however, failed to fly above the ground level because of the insignificant nature of the flag bearer. The battle for the Brick House, Port Harcourt is therefore expected to be a straight battle among Fubara, Abbe, and Cole. While Wike and Amaechi would seek to confirm their supremacy in the ensuing turf war, through Fubara and Cole, respectively, it is yet to be seen on which platform Abbe would actualize his guber ambition amidst his incurable optimism The battle for the Brick House, Port Harcourt is therefore expected to be a straight battle among Fubara, Abbe, and Cole. While Wike and Amaechi would seek to confirm their supremacy in the ensuing turf war, through Fubara and Cole, respectively, it is yet to be seen on which platform Abbe would actualize his guber ambition amidst his incurable optimism. Breaking The Ikwerre Stranglehold With Cole Cole emerged winner of the APC governorship primaries conducted at the Adokie Amiesemeka stadium in early June, after about 10 aspirants stepped down for him, in obedience to the party leadership. He is believed to still enjoy support from immediate past Minister of Transportation, who is also the leader of the party in the state. Cole is not expected to have too much problems in next year’s governorship election, since he would simply inherit Amaechi’s political structure to ascend to the Government House in 2023. Part of this structure, many believe include Amaechi’s eight-year stint each as Speaker in the state House of Assembly and governor, after which he was appointed a federal minister for another seven years-a total of 23 years. Such a sturdy political structure, is believed to be rich enough to offer Cole a head start far above his contemporaries in the race. Another factor that could work in favour of Cole, is believed to be his Kalabari ethnic nationality, which has over the years been agitating for power rotation from the upland to give the riverine people some sense of belonging. An indigene of Abonnema in Akuku Toru Local Government Area, Cole’s emergence as the APC governorship candidate best fit into that equation, since the Ikwere ethnic stock has so far dominated the Rivers political landscape, with power moving from Peter Odili to Amaechi and then the incumbent Wike. Besides these factors is the Tonye Cole’s perceived war chest, given the role of money in the country’s political dynamics. Cole is a billionaire business mogul who is aware that so much money is required to sway public opinion and perception in the coming months. Also expected to speak in favour of the youthful 55-year old Harvard trained business man, entrepreneur, and chief executive officer of Sahara Energy, are his rich parental background. His father, Dr Patrick Dele Cole, a journalist, who served as managing director of the Daily Times of Nigeria newspapers group, was the presidential aspirant of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, in the early 1990s. He became Nigeria’s Ambassador to Brazil. These, notwithstanding, the APC candidate faces an uphill task going into the Rivers State governorship election as he is seen largely seen as unpopular in the state before now, especially among rural dwellers. This, it is believed, was the major reason some of the APC governorship aspirants angrily protested his anointing by Amaechi, masquerading his choice in the name of party elders at a meeting in Abuja. Some of the aspirants had signed a bond prior to the primaries to support whoever emerged candidate of the party. The aspirants were, however, shocked to learn that they were deceived, which is why many fear whether he would enjoy their support at the poll. There are also those who say despite being a billionaire, the APC candidate has difficulty parting with money, an allegation he has since denied. More than anything else, it is believed that the exit of Amaechi from the Federal Executive Council ahead of the APC presidential primary, is also seen as a bad omen for the candidate, especially as President Muhammadu Buhari and the federal apparatchik would be engrossed in the transition activities at the centre to bother about any sub-national. One other issue that may not go away so soon is a major criminal matter against the governorship candidate, after the Rivers State Government dragged him to court over the sale of choice government properties valued at N96 billion to his Sahara Energy. The assets range from gas turbines, and hotel, among others. The state has also asked Cole to explain what contract he executed that that warranted Sahara Energy being paid US$50 million by Rotimi Amaechi administration. Fubara: Will Incumbency Do The Magic Again? The emergence of Siminialaye Fubara as candidate of the PDP for the 2023 guber election was more of a surprise to many political observers in the state. Popularly known as Sim, Fubara, the former Accountant General was the least expected person to clinch the ticket, before the governorship primaries. His emergence was the greater shocker in the recent political history of Rivers State, beating other better known aspirants like Felix Obuah, Dr. Abiye Sekibo, Alabo David Briggs, Senator George Sekibo, and Dr. Kelly Dax George, among others. Apart from being an indigene of Opobo in Opobo/Nkoro local government of the state which is also one of those clamouring for power shift, Fubara is expected to garner votes from riverine communities necessary for electoral victory. He is expected to ride on the incumbency and stone cast structure political machinery of Governor Wike, generally believed to be the most politically savvy incumbent across the entire state after the former Governor Peter Odili. Having Fubara as the PDP anointed successor therefore would not pose any problem winning the election. Keen observers also say the fact that Wike neither made it through the presidential primaries, and also lost out in the nomination of running mate to Atiku Abubakar, will propel him to work extra hard to ensure victory for Fubara, if he must sustain his legacy. An added advantage for the PDP candidate is his perceived war-chest needed to pursue his governorship ambition without necessarily waiting to access the vault of his political godfather. As noted earlier, Fubara is also said not to be a popular candidate, just like his APC counterpart, because he is hardly known to members of the PDP in the state. He got to the limelight only after emerging as the PDP candidate and does not in any way command the formidable structure of his godfather. What could eventually become his Achilles’ heel is his case with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. Fubara recently escaped being arrested by the anti-graft agency over the allegation that he, as Accountant-General, fraudulently withdrew N117 billion, and was believed to have been sheltered at the Government House to evade arrest. The breather Fubara has now, is that the state government has instituted a case against the EFCC, following which the agency cannot arrest or harass the PDP candidate. Undoubtedly, all spheres of the 2023 general elections beginning with the centre will expectedly pass as one of the most expensive in Nigerian political history, judging by what played out at the primaries of the two largest parties in the country-the APC and PDP, especially as it relates to the role money played in the process, as it became clear that the number of votes aspirants got was commensurate to whether they are able to outspend others Magnus Abe’s Optimism Despite Odds Those who have observed Rivers State politics keenly over the years will easily conclude that Senator Magnus Ngei Abe is a political enigma in the state, having amassed a strong political profile from 1999 when he was the minority leader in the state House of Assembly on the platform of the then All People’s Party, APP. Thereafter, he became Information Commissioner, and later Secretary to the State Government, SSG, in Amaechi administration. Abe became one of the most celebrated Senators in the National Assembly when he represented the Rivers south-east senatorial district in the Senate. Though his name is not on the ballot for next year’s governorship election, Abe insists that he would contest the next election, while remaining silent but very optimistic on his chances of becoming the next governor of the state, without disclosing on which ticket he plans to actualize the dream. Going by individual strength, however, Abe stands out among other candidates in terms of political structure, popularity and experience, besides being an indigene of Gokana Local Government Area of the state. His acceptability is believed to cut across all four council areas of the Ogoni kingdom and beyond, who believe he is more than qualified to be the next Rivers State governor. Abe’s closeness to the political family of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is seen as a major elixir for his political career, especially since the emergence the APC Presidential flagbearer. In Rivers state, Abe is a patron of Bola Ahmed Tinubu Vanguard, BAT-V, with chapters in virtually all the 23 local government areas in the state. Former Chief of Staff to former Governor Amaechi, Chief Tony Okocha, is the state coordinator, a strong Abe ally. It is expected that Abe’s structure will be of great advantage to boost Tinubu’s acceptability and the chance of securing the minimum 25 percent in the state in 2023. Last line Undoubtedly, all spheres of the 2023 general elections beginning with the centre will expectedly pass as one of the most expensive in Nigerian political history, judging by what played out at the primaries of the two largest parties in the country- the APC and PDP, especially as it relates to the role money played in the process, as it became clear that the number of votes aspirants got was commensurate to whether they are able to outspend others. With such money bags as Atiku Abubakar, a billionaire squaring up with Bola Tinubu another billionaire, it is expected that unless something dramatic happens money would play a role that is much more pronounced in the coming election than ever before across the country, and Rivers state, in particular, giving the fact that both Tonye Cole and Siminialaye Fubara have well-endowed pool of funds to clear their paths 