AKINWUNMI KING The primaries of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State may have come and gone but the outcome of the exercise, no doubt, left many with broken hearts. The tsunami caused by the indirect primary mode adopted by the ruling party hit the Lagos State House of Assembly hard, with the legislative arm of the state losing about 10 members who had the intention of returning to be part of the 10th Assembly. Before the primaries, many of the legislators who lost out, had boasted that they would win the primaries regardless of whatever mode the party decided to adopt. In the past, the Lagos APC was used to a practice of compiling the list of those who would contest the general election, and this as it was gathered, gave many of these lawmakers the confidence that they would still come out victorious, even if the primaries didn’t favour them. Some of these lawmakers even had their faith in the Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, who they thought would protect their interest in case the outcome of the primaries doesn’t favour them. However, after the primaries, some of them were woefully defeated even by newbies. At the plenary session of Monday, June 27, some of the lawmakers voiced out their anger over their defeat at the primaries, fingering the state executive arm of being responsible for their defeat at the primaries. They accused the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, of playing a key role in making them lose their return tickets. The lawmakers also lamented that the delegates’ lists were doctored in many constituencies in favour of aspirants whom they believed were backed by the governor during the primaries, adding that the process was not credible and devoid of democratic practices. The Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, had been called upon by Speaker Obasa to give a report on a legislative training attended by members two weeks ago in Ogere, Ogun State. Agunbiade, in his report, spoke on how speakers at the training lamented the loss of experienced lawmakers and how the delegate system adopted by the APC was monetized and ended up favouring the highest bidder. Hon. Victor Akande, representing Ojo Constituency 1, who was first to comment on the report by the Majority Leader, narrated his ordeal and how the delegate system was used to scheme him out for an aspirant allegedly backed by the governor. Akande, who claimed that they had been rendered jobless because of their loss at the primaries, alleged that Sanwo-Olu had successfully made an in-road into the House with the emergence of those who won the primaries, even as he expressed the need for the House to quickly curtail the governor’s influence. -Advertisement- POLL According to him, the governor, instead of supporting their return to the House, supported his own candidates against them. He insisted that there was need to speak out about their experiences during the primaries, saying that the House would never be a rubber stamp. He added that it would be a waste of taxpayers’ money if after being trained, they were suddenly schemed out of their position. “After spending a huge amount of money on training lawmakers and acquiring legislative knowledge and experience, at the end of the day, one is suddenly removed by way of not being given the party’s ticket,” he said. While referring to Obasa, Akande, who initially came into the House under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but later defected to the APC, noted that, “Like you, Mr. Speaker, who have been in this House for years and have been able to garner experience, it is because of your experience that made me to join the APC, and I cannot stand to be shortchanged for a system that does not work. “I think the Electoral Act needs to be looked into because most of the delegates were not even elected. In some constituencies, the delegates’ lists were written. This is not a good system,” Akande said. On his part, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, representing Somolu Constituency 1, said their failure to clinch the party’s tickets was not because they were not popular among their people but due to the incursion by the powers-that-be. Olowo alleged that the incursion might be dangerous to the independence of the House, saying that the electorate were angry at the way the party conducted its primaries. He said: “I am not speaking for myself alone. One of our colleagues was rigged between the election location and Acme. The election result was manipulated. In some areas, nothing like elections. This does not apply to Lagos alone but across Nigeria. In Ondo State, there were only six members that returned. In the House of Representatives, it was less than one-third that returned. Some Senators have defected from our party to another party because of the failed process. “But more importantly is ours here, where another arm of government was fingered in all the constituencies because the House is irrepressible, independent, proactive, and pro-masses and will not submit to any other arm of government. And if our sin is because we treat issues how it should be treated without sentiment, we want to commit more sins.” While reacting to their comments, Obasa said the issues raised were of party affairs and that it can only be handled at the party level. “You have the right to raise your observations but we must understand that whichever way, it’s all about democracy. “We refer to people in other parts of the world who serve many years. These people you are talking about still go back to their people who make decisions as to who their representatives would be, so I still want to believe that if there is an issue with the process of the election, it is still more of a party affair that can be discussed,” Obasa said. Reasons The Lawmakers Lost Many of those who lost in the primaries are regarded as the ‘untouchables’ because of their alleged closeness to the leadership of the House. They are seen as the heavyweights of the House and their conduct and utterances, especially during debates on the floor of the House, show how powerful they are. Even members of staff believe that members of this group are powerful, hence they do not joke with them. Prior to the primaries, many believed that these members would scale the hurdles easily because of the backing of the leadership of the House. But it was a rude shock to them on Thursday, 26 May, 2022, when the state Assembly primary elections of the APC took place. When the results started coming in, they came with shock, disbelief and disappointment for the Assembly heavyweights. The first story that created waves was the loss of Folajimi Mohammed, the son of the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. Folajimi is one of the ‘anointed’ members of the House and nobody expected him to lose his ticket to represent Ikeja Constituency I, incidentally the Constituency of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Nobody even expected that he would lose to a newbie who could not retain a councillorship seat in Onigbongbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA). But all these were thrown to the winds when Seyi Lawal, former Legislative Leader of Onigbongbo LCDA, beat Folajimi by 14 delegate votes to eight to pick the ticket. For Hon. Olowo, it was obvious that he wasn’t going to return to the House because he had his eyes on the Shomolu Federal Constituency seat. But when the game became clearer and he discovered that it would be an uphill task for him to defeat the incumbent member of the House of Representatives, Olowo quickly rushed back to contest the House of Assembly for a fifth term. However, the Chairman of the House Committee on Finance, didn’t find it easy as members of the party in the constituency vehemently opposed his return to the House of Assembly for a fifth term. The party members maintained that they have allowed Olowo to represent them in the last 15 years plus and therefore should allow a fresh and young blood to go to the House. Perhaps, the result that made some Assembly staff happy was that of Akande, who many alleged behaves and talks arrogantly and will always flaunt his closeness to the leadership of the House. It was obvious that even his constituents were not happy with him because they alleged that he totally disconnected with them and stopped living among them long ago after getting into the House in 2015. Akande lost to Segun Adebisi, the son of pioneer Commissioner for Establishment, Late Afolabi Ege, after polling 10 delegates’ votes, as against Adebisi’s 14 votes. Sobur Olawale of Mushin Constituency 2 is well known in the Lagos State House of Assembly. Many believed his third term in office was a forgone conclusion but certainly they didn’t reckon with a certain Yinka Esho-Kazeem who beat him roundly at the primary election. Mrs Mojisola Alli-Macaulay of Amuwo-Odofin State Constituency I is one of the favourites in the House. Despite her contribution to a motion during the EndSARS period, which drew her at loggerheads with youths during the era, she still enjoys popularity with the House leadership. The primary election however proved how unpopular she is when she lost woefully to Folorunsho Olaitan who polled 12 delegate votes to a mere four she was able to muster. Hon. Fatai Oluwa of Ajeromi Ifelodun Constituency I, allegedly has a reputation among his colleagues, as he is alleged to be the one recording voices of colleagues for presentation to the leadership of the House. Oluwa, who is one of the eight PDP members that came into the House in 2015, defected to the APC prior to the 2019 general election, having realised that he was going to get a second term if he were to contest again under the PDP platform. He was able to contest the 2019 election under the APC platform and won in the general election. However, at the recent House of Assembly primary election, Oluwa was beaten by another Oluwa though not a relation of his. Incidentally, this Oluwa until now, was a staff of the House many believe could have been a walk over for Fatai. Another favourite of the House leadership who bit the dust, was Hon. Rasheed Makinde of Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 2. His case was worse, as he could not even win a single delegate vote where a neophyte Emmanuel Olotu had 17 delegates’ votes. Hakeem Sokunle of Oshodi-Isolo Constituency I was beaten by Stephen Ogundipe, the man he (Sokunle) had beaten in the past elections. He also defected from the PDP in 2019. As it was gathered, Sokunle’s loss at the primary was a clear indication that he had become very unpopular in his constituency. Ogundipe really battered Sokunle winning 20 delegate votes to Shokunle’s four. Jude Idimogu, Sokunle’s counterpart in the Oshodi-Isolo Constituency 2, was another worse scenario. Like Shokunle, Idimogu was beaten by Ladi Ajomale, son of former state Chairman of APC, Henry Ajomale, whom Idimogu defeated in the past. Ajomale’s son defeated Idimogu by polling all the 30 delegates’ votes. What Does The Future Hold? After his colleagues were affected by the indirect primary process, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, expressed displeasure over the mode of primary election adopted by political parties in choosing their candidates for 2023 elections. The speaker in his welcome remarks at the resumption of plenary on Tuesday, June 14, said the delegate system of primary election deprived many of his colleagues from securing their return tickets to the parliament. Gbajabiamila, who faulted the delegate system of election, saying it was a wrong mode, said that many lawmakers were not given a fair shot in the primaries. While urging the affected lawmakers to put the issue behind them and focus on their mandate that is running till next year, the Speaker said: “The past two months have been dominated by political pursuits across the country as political parties carry out various activities to nominate their candidates for the forthcoming general elections. All of us, members of the House of Representatives, have not been exempt from this process. “Unfortunately, as is always the case in electoral contests, some of us who sought the nomination of our parties to return to legislature have not gotten it. Others who sought nomination to contest other positions have also fallen short in that quest. “Honourable colleagues, it is rather unfortunate that the process went the way it went. I make bold to say here that the legislature has once again suffered losses. The loss really is not for members who lost, it is a loss to democracy, to the institution and to the country. “If it means anything, I know and I am aware that many of our members did not lose their primaries because they were rejected by their constituents. Many of our members lost because of the process, the process, which we foresaw in the House of Representatives. The delegate system, which unfortunately is not what a delegate system is supposed to be. “Honourable colleagues, many of our members lost because they were not even given a fair shot. We have good legislators, both here in the chambers and back home, who are probably not coming back because of this same process. When we fought for direct primaries in this house, we knew exactly what we were saying. It pains me very deeply that the process has gone the way it has gone. We will continue to push and continue to fight for our members, for democracy, for the institution and this country. “I have experienced political loss and I can speak to the feelings of loss and disappointment that arise as a result. From that experience, I wish to share with you the everlasting truth that none of us is defined by the outcome of any election at any one time. What defines us before God and our fellow men is what we do in the time we have in public office and on earth. We are judged on earth and after by the work of our hands, quality of our service, the content of our character and passion of our convictions. These are the things that matter most and will count in the fullness of time. “Therefore, I enjoin you all to set aside your feelings about the recent electoral experiences to focus on serving the mandate we still have. Whereas in the past, the start of the electoral calendar marked the end of governance as a priority, that will not be the case in this 9th Assembly. Our term in office does not end till next year. Until the moment it does, until the last minute of the final hour, we will do the people’s work and serve their interests. That is the oath we swore and the commitment we will live up to, come what may.” Electoral Act Still An Issue Meanwhile, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, had assured that the National Assembly will further amend the Electoral Act 2022 to serve as a safeguard against weaknesses identified in the law. Lawan stated this following a matter of urgent national importance brought by former Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, during plenary on Tuesday. Abdullahi, (PDP, Kebbi), had suggested that the Senate “reverts to its earlier stand on direct primaries”, asking members of both the Senate and House of Representatives to look out for the loopholes and weaknesses in the 2022 Electoral Act and subsequent legislation. Abdullahi was reacting to the Supreme Court’s decision to strike out a suit filed by President Muhammad Buhari and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami. The duo had challenged the controversial section 84(12) of the Electoral Act which provides that “No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election.” But the seven-justice bench of the Supreme Court, led by Musa Dattijo-Muhammad, unanimously struck out the suit last week. The justices described it as an abuse of the court process. Aokmaye Agim, who delivered the lead judgement, held that Mr. Buhari, having earlier assented to section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act 2022, cannot turn around to approach the court to strike it down. Coming under Order 41, Abdullahi commended the National Assembly for resisting the pressure from the executive to amend section 84(12), just as he described the Supreme Court verdict as a victory toward true democratic governance anchored on the rule of law. The verdict, he said, restored and anchored the power of making laws to the National Assembly and established a principle that once the president assents to a Bill he/ she cannot approbate and reprobate. (i.e, he/she cannot go to the court to amend/reject the Bill in part or whole. He also stressed the need to amend the Electoral Act to revert to the direct mode of primaries. “One issue still remains outstanding, and that is amending the Act (after the 2023 elections) to revert to our earlier stance on Direct primaries. “Our recent nasty experience of the misuse of consensus and delegate system has vindicated our earlier position on the merit of direct primaries provided that a verifiable membership register of political parties kept simultaneously at the Ward level and with INEC with all the necessary safeguards against corruption and data manipulation, is put in place,” he said. The lawmaker also added that the parliament needs to be “observant of the loopholes and weaknesses of the 2022 Electoral Act, so that a comprehensive assessment is undertaken to provide adequate grounds for making amendments to the Act before the end of the term of office of the 9th Assembly in May 2023.” In his response, the Senate President said the decision on the mode of primary is entirely left to political parties. He also said the legislature would amend the Electoral Act to serve as a safeguard against weaknesses identified in the law. “Let me say that this is one major landmark judgment by the Supreme Court, that the National Assembly had done their job and the court upheld it. “The idea of what method of primaries should be adopted at the moment is entirely left for the political parties to decide. “But as we implement the electoral act 2022, we are supposed to be very observant of the strengths and weaknesses of the law. “This law is supposed to improve the electoral processes and procedures in our country. So, it is for us to ensure that where there are weaknesses, we try to come up with measures, and amendments to deal with the issues of weaknesses in the law. “And, I’m sure it will come full circle when the 2023 elections are held. I have no doubt in my mind that all of us in the National Assembly, not only in the Senate but in the House as well, feel that we must do everything and everything possible to make this electoral act serve the purpose for which it was passed and assented to. Therefore, I believe that we should work tirelessly to take note of those areas that we feel are not strong enough – that are weak points in the law – with a view to strengthening them before we finally take our exit in 2023.” While the lawmakers are keen on amending the Act, it is not clear when the process will begin.