 LAGOS  – The officials of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos Command have arrested two travellers over stolen and fake international passports. The travellers, Melekwe Gift and Melekwe Peace who were on their way to India were arrested aboard Qatar Airways flight on June 23, 2022. A statement by Mrs. Louisa Amadiokoro, the Public Relations Officer (PRO), Lagos Airport Command stated that the duo was arrested during an immigration clearance, adding that this was made possible through the stringent measures put in place by the command. The statement quoted Kemi Nandap, the Assistant Comptroller-General, MMA Command as saying that the command had improved its surveillance and security measures in line with Mr. Isah Jere Idris, the Acting Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service. According to Nandap, the command had ensured drastic reduction in human trafficking through the airport, stressing that the arrested travellers claimed to be a couple, but regretted that they were in possession of a stolen passport and a fake passport, respectively. She expressed that Melekwe Gift was in possession of a stolen passport that was watch-listed on July 29, 2011, while Melekwe Peace was in possession of a fake passport revealed by the command’s forensic investigation. However, the duo claimed to have obtained the passports through an agent named Yusuf. -Advertisement- POLL She added: “Upon investigation, it was uncovered that the couple was travelling to seek greener pastures, which contradicted their earlier claim that Melekwe Gift was traveling for medical treatment-claiming she was suffering from leukemia, whereas she was perfectly healthy. “Further investigation revealed that they were not a couple, but strangers that only met a day before their planned trip.” Nandap explained further that Gift’s real name was Endurance Ofem Ikpi from Ugep, Cross Rivers state and was never married to Melekwe Peace, but was instructed by the agent to claim so. Git in her confessional statement, allegedly claimed that her old friend, Tina who now resides in India introduced her to the idea of traveling with the promise that she would get her a job in India.