If the hangovers were the type that one feels after a revelry, or binge with friends after which one is reluctant to go back to work the next day ,it would not have mattered much . That is because, excessive alcoholic intake can be taken care of by engaging in quick detox­ification , and being not keen to return to work can be cured by a reality check of the fear of being fired from the job or suffering income loss , if one’s boss is fair enough to make absence from work only a loss of pay for the period of absence. But the hangover being suffered by Nigerian politicians after the party primaries for the 2023 general elections that were held mostly during the month of May and first week of June is much more than that. That is especially so for the presidential candidates of the two main political parties- ruling APC and main opposition, PDP that are now grappling with the dilemmas which their emergence have triggered via the actions of both parties in choosing their presidential candidates against the run or play. By now, it must be clear to most Nigerians that the two personalities – Bola Ahmed Tinubu, BAT in the case of APC and Atiku Abubakar, AA in the case of PDP are two powerful politicians whose political sagacity defied all logic to emerge as the candidates of their respective parties. In light of the above, they are irksome to some members even in the parties in which they are presidential flag bearers simply because their candidacy is fraught with technicalities that are disruptive to the traditional political settings , and therefore represent a major paradigm shift in the annals of Nigeria’s political office contes­tation at the presidential levels. Traditionally, if a presidential candidate is from the north,usually Hausa/Fulani and a Mus­lim , the running mate is often someone from the south , lgbo,ljaw or Yoruba. That has been the case since 1979 with Alhaji Shehu Shagari , a Muslim and Hausa/Fulani from Sokoto state paired with Dr Alex Ekwueme, a Christian and an lgbo from Anambra state as presidential and vice presidential candidates respectively. Ditto for Olusegun Obasanjo, a Yoruba Chris­tian from Owu in Ogun state and Atiku Abuba­kar , from Jada, Yola in Adamwa state , that were bestriding the Presidency and Vice Presidency , from 1999 to 2007; not forgetting Umaru Yar’adua , a Muslim Hausa /Fulani from katsina state and Goodluck Jonathan Christian from Otuoke in Bayelsa state presidency and Vice Presidency , 2007-2010 , as well well as Jonathan and Nama­di Sambo , a Muslim Fulani from Kaduna state presidency and Vice Presidency , 2011-2015. -Advertisement- POLL Even under military rule, pre and post 1979 re­turn to democracy with Shagari and Ekwueme at the helm of affairs as President and Vice President, the military dictators were sensitive enough to observe and respect the delicate ethnic and religious lines by balancing the ethnic and religious fault lines required to keep our country on even keel. Having set the stage by putting things in con­text , it is proper that l dissect the hangovers that are being suffered by both BAT and AA , who are clearly the presidential front runners in 2023 and dwell a little bit on the threats posed by the fringe parties and their chances or otherwise in having a shot at calling the shots in Aso Rock Villa next year. Beginning with the APC , where the appar­ent political miscalculations during the June 6-7th APC presidential convention, presumably careened out of control, following the underes­timation of APC national leader, Bola Tinubu , to pull a chestnut out of fire by becoming the presidential candidate of APC , against all odds , and which is one of the causes of the debilitating hangover now being suffered by the party . It is as a consequence of that unforeseen development of which the APC was clearly unprepared, that it is now contending with the hangover of swim­ming against the tide of finding a running mate that would compliment its candidate rather than threatening the chances of the party and worse still , endangering the unity of our country. That is basically because,a Muslim -Muslim ticket which appears to be the best option open to BAT, by all measures seems to be an anathema in light of the current dissonance level between Muslims and Christians in Nigeria . That point is driven home by the media state­ments being issued by various Christian groups and even a Muslim interest platform that have expressed aversion to such an arrangement at the presidential level, which is significant. In a media report currently making the rounds , over the weekend, a group known as Nigeria Democracy Defense Watch ,(NDDW) led by the Ahmed Ibrahim Adamu and Otunba Adeniji Adegoke wrote a letter to president Bu­hari suggesting that”a Muslim-Muslim ticket May portray Nigeria as an Islamic and sectarian nation. It may be argued that the late Moshood Kashi­mawo Okikiola, MKO Abiola, a Yoruba Muslim like BAT, contested for the presidency under the SDP in 1993 by pairing with Ambassador Baba­gana Kingibe, another Muslim from Borno state and won. But the level of ethnic and religious animosity now prevailing in our country man­ifesting in extreme hostility was absent in 1993. In fact , the oddity of a Muslim-Muslim presi­dency may be the critical,but unannounced rea­son that the election believed to be the fairest of political party elections in Nigeria was annulled by then head of state, General Ibrahim Badama­si Babangida, IBB. As it may be recalled, lBB had indicated in the numerous media interviews that he has granted in nearly 30 years after the sad event of June 12 1993 election annulment, that it was done to assuage the anger of members of the military- perhaps his kitchen cabinet who were opposed to the development . Hopefully, IBB would reveal exactly the identity of the officers that were op­posed to his allowing MKO Abiola’s victory to be upheld and their reason for being so resolute about it in his memoir, if he eventually writes it or authorizes one. Before then, it needs being brought to the fore that in uncanny ways, the June 1993 annulment of the presidential elections won by MKO Abio­la by IBB echoes the January 6 ,2020 attempted annulment of Joe Biden’s victory as president of the USA, by then president Donald Trump and which is currently being investigated by the congress of that country . The parallel lies in the fact then incumbent president Trump tried unsuccessfully to get congress to upturn the elec­tion victory of Biden via pressure on Vice Presi­dent Mike Pence and members of the parliament to deny Biden’s victory by using the statutory endorsement and validation by parliament to invalidate the result . But for the existence of robust institutions of democracy in the USA ,Trump would have had his way in the manner that Babangida successfully annulled June 12, 1993 presidential elections of which MKO Abiola, the adjudged winner, but was denied the crown. As a country that believes in engaging in post mortem of events in order to avert future occur­rence, the congress of the USA is investigating the June 6, 2020 invasion of The Capitol, by pro-Trump insurgents who besieged the Congress hall and unleashed mayhem on congress men and women while in the process of endorsing Biden’s victory. Right now, the inquisition is be­ing carried out in the full glare of Americans via live television. Unsurprisingly, that was not the case with June 12, 1993 annulment in Nigeria and one of the reasons, Africa is referred to as a dark continent, and why,indeed Nigeria is still in the doldrums and even deemed as an basket case in the comity of civilized countries. That being the case , how June 12 , 1993 hap­pened has remained a mystery, and subject of conjecture as l have just done by speculating that non-acceptance of Muslim-Muslim presidency by some influential military high command members may be an unsung reason. For the sake of emphasis, had we as a nation known what informed the decision by lBB and his kitchen cabinet to annul June 12th presiden­tial election via a public enquiry whose report is made public , perhaps it would have been leg­islated against and maybe Bola Ahmed Tinubu would not be caught in a similar web today . And our country’s leaders lack of interest in looking at the past experience with June 12th 1993 debacle to enable it chart a better future in our presidential elections may be attributable to the fact that the sad event occurred under a military dictatorship that is opaque, as opposed to democracy that is transparent. Worse still, even where a panel of inquiry were to be set up to examine the cause of such an aberration, the reports are swept under the carpet. Take Oputa Panel Report for instance. It is an investigative panel set up by president Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999 to investigate human rights abuse from 1984 to 1999 when Nigeria was ruled by both general Ibrahim Babangida, and then general Muhammadu Buhari , military head of state ,1983-85. The panel of enquiry headed by late justice Chukwudifu Oputa, with bishop Hasan Kukah as secretary wrote a report that never saw the light of day hence our country failed to under go a reset in the manner that Rwanda has witnessed a rebirth after its ethnic cleansing tragedy in 1994. Apart from the challenge of both the presi­dent and his vice being of the same faith which appears untenable given the prevailing circum­stances of religious disharmony in our country, that has been elevated to a frightening level in the past decade or so, and which is like an albatross hanging over the presidential candidate of the APC , Bola Ahmed Tinubu: the minimum edu­cational qualifications for a president is another major cause of indigestion in Tinubu’s camp. Both of these factors -Muslim -Muslim ticket palava and minimum certificate imbroglio are the reasons the winner of the APC presidential primaries has been unable to consummate his victory nearly one month after he won it by ap­pointing a running mate. Evidently, his inability to appoint a substan­tive running mate rather than exercising the op­tion of nominating a Place Holder in the person of lbrahim Masari from katsina state, does not augur well for his presidential ambition because it is tricky . In the prevailing circumstances, he needed to beat INEC deadline by buying time while trying to figure out the intricacies of eth­nic and religious realities that define our politics, and the Place-Holder concept lends itself as tem­porary solution . A Place-Holder which is an option that Tinu­bu exercised has thus entered into the lexicon of Nigerian political actors and it is now a popular line of action in the political space as other presi­dential candidates, (not the PDP) have copied the innovative concept pioneered by the inimitable Bola Tinubu who is best known for his sagacity having been the one who institutionalized dep­uty governors being political neophytes having leant a bitter lesson from his hard fight to fend off his first deputy, the politically savvy Ko­foworaola Bucknor, allegedly bent on impeach­ing him. It was Tinubu who also changed for good the concept of Local Government Areas, LGAs to Local Council Development, Authori­ties, LCDAs after winning a landmark legal bat­tle against then president Olusegun Obasanjo. So, it is to his credit that the concept of creating additional local councils by states has now be­come standard. By contributing another feature like the Place-Holder concept that is currently a fad into the political milieu, Tinubu has by and large become another touch bearer.