LAGOS – The Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Ruqayyah Saraki has embarked on a tour of facilities and assets of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), with a call to Maritime Agencies for continuous synergy. Assets inspected included the NIMASA Command, Control and Computer Centre (C4i), the NIMASA Modular Floating Dockyard, the NIMASA E-library and Vessels belonging to the Agency undergoing dry docking at the Naval Dockyard Victoria Island. The Minister expressed delight at the equipment and assets of NIMASA stating that it underscores the importance the Federal Government attaches to combating maritime crimes and ensuring zero tolerance for illegal activities on the nation’s territorial waters. While commending the synergy and collaboration amongst Agencies of Government in the maritime sector, the Honorable Minister expressed delight at the fact that Nigeria has witnessed piracy free waters since 2022. Accordingly, she said: “for over 28 years, we have been in the press for the wrong reasons, over the piracy issues at the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). We were there when Mr. President commissioned the DEEP BLUE PROJECT last year and within that short frame of time, we have broken the jinx, and for the last five months zero attacks, so I think that says it all for my assessment of NIMASA”. Furthermore, Senator Saraki noted the need to sustain the momentum to ensure Nigeria remains attractive to investors adding that the Ministry is delighted at the steps NIMASA is taking to address the issue of War Risk Insurance premium on Nigerian Bound Cargoes. “The most important thing now is that we don’t rest on our oars. The Free Trade Agreement and how it affects Nigeria is our focus. We hope to create an enabling environment to be very attractive and highly competitive when compared to neighboring countries and collaboration amongst all maritime Agencies of Government in terms of information gathering and sharing is key in achieving this”. She said.