Mikel Arteta may have dropped a huge hint over his next Arsenal club captain with his lineup against Everton on Sunday. It comes as the Gunners continue to ramp up their pre-season preparations. The match against the Toffees was the third since the Spaniard’s squad made a return to action. So far, they’ve won them all, beating Ipswich Town, Nurnberg and now Everton with a 2-0 victory. First-half goals from Gabriel Jesus and Bukayo Saka secured the victory, with just three matches left before the real thing. One decision that will have to be made by the opening day is that of the club captaincy. The armband has been passed around several options in the past year, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang starting out as captain. He had the role removed though and soon left for Barcelona. Arteta refused to pick a new full-time player, opting to give it to Alexandre Lacazette until the end of the campaign. The Frenchman has also left the club, leaving the manager with another decision to make regarding leadership. However, his choice may have been made as the match against Everton saw him pick Martin Odegaard as the captain. The Norway international has been linked with the vacant role, having already been the national team captain at a young age. Arteta himself has already claimed he could take the armband, saying earlier this year: “He [Odegaard] certainly has all the qualities to do that, absolutely. Talking to his national team coach and how highly they speak of him. He walks through the corridor and everybody loves him. “He is such a nice, humble guy and he leads with the way he is. It is very natural for him and that will come.” POLL It remains to be seen whether the 23-year-old will be the permanent option, but he has already shown he has what it takes to take charge. However, his choice may have been made as the match against Everton saw him pick Martin Odegaard as the captain. The Norway international has been linked with the vacant role, having already been the national team captain at a young age. Arteta himself has already claimed he could take the armband, saying earlier this year: “He [Odegaard] certainly has all the qualities to do that, absolutely. Talking to his national team coach and how highly they speak of him. He walks through the corridor and everybody loves him. “He is such a nice, humble guy and he leads with the way he is. It is very natural for him and that will come.” It remains to be seen whether the 23-year-old will be the permanent option, but he has already shown he has what it takes to take charge.