Mrs Hafsat Yerima, Coordinator National Youth Service Corps NYSC, Yobe State has commended Governor Mai Mala Buni, security agencies and traditional rulers for the continued support and cooperation to Corps Members deployed to the state as well as the scheme.. She appreciated the Governor today during an introductory address on the occasion of the passing out parade of the 2021 Batch’B’ Stream I Corps Members held at Damaturu stadium. “I wish to express my profound appreciation to His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni (ChiromanGujba) the Executive Governor of Yobe State for his continuous support and cooperation. We also appreciate the support and cooperation from the state government for creating the enabling environment for the programme’s success”. “My profound appreciation for the success of the service year also goes to the peace-loving people of Yobe State, Security Agencies, Traditional and Religious Leaders, Community Leaders, Employers of Corps labour and others who created the conducive atmosphere for the Corps members to exhibit their natural talents and skills”. “Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen it is with a deep sense of pride that I present these set of corps members for discharge from national service today having performed their Primary Assignment commendably, the numerous Community Development Service Projects that are dotted in the communities they served bears eloquent testimony to the praiseworthy effort of these young compatriots”. According to her “In this regard, two (2) Corps Members who distinguished themselves in the discharge of their national service have been presented to the state government for the bestowal of the state award for DISTINGUISH SERVICE. This is in line with the scheme’s policy to reward hard work and dedication to duty. My dear Corps Members, it is my earnest and sincere hope that you have learnt the lesson intended by this policy of the scheme that hard work and dedication to duty indeed, has a reward”. -Advertisement- POLL “Let me at this juncture, assuage the uncertainties about the future which most corps members must be thinking about as they are being discharged and remind such people that this is the time to dust the notes made during the Entrepreneurship Development programme organised during the Orientation Course and the debriefing programme in collaboration with the NDE to chart a better future for yourselves. “