I don’t know how to go about this week’s column for the simple reason that there are too many issues contending for prime attention. Where do I start? Is it from the negative or the positive? I think I will start from the negative so that as you go with me, you end the column feeling happy at the end. While track and field athletes were burning the Ogbe stadium tracks in Benin in search of qual­ification tickets for this months World Championships in Athlet­ics in Oregon, U.S.A., conspicu­ously missing for the first time in about a six seasons is Blessing Okagbare, who is serving an 11- year ban over doping violation. Okagbare was initially banned for 10 years in 2021 but a year has added to the ban this week after she was found guilty of evading sample collection, and tampering or attempted tampering with the doping control process. World Athletics, in a statement during the week stated that, “The Athletics Integrity Unit has an­nounced that banned Nigerian sprinter Blessing Okagbare has been found to have committed additional anti-doping rule vi­olations – specifically evading sample collection, and tampering or attempted tampering with the doping control process. “Okagbare has had her cur­rent 10-year ban from athletics extended by one year (now 11 years in total).” The former queen of the tracks, who has brought glory to the country, has now ended her career ignominiously. I have re­frained from featuring her and I will try as much as possible not to dwell more than this on the subject. What of the violence that has refused to be kicked out of the Nigeria Professional Football League? The problem has be­come a hydra-headed one be­cause of the kid glove treatment met to the perpetrators. I know it is painful when your team los­es, but have we forgotten that in football there three possible results – win, lose and draw. For how long are we going to toler­ate this ignoble act of supporters and even football club officials, who in the first instance have no business coming near Nigerian football, desecrating the beau­tiful game. But because of our peculiarity as n people where every Tom Dick and Harry is appointed club managers, what else do you expect? The good news is Rivers Unit­ed winning the Nigeria Profes­sional Football League for the first time in their history. I will do justice to this history-making event next week, if God permits. -Advertisement- POLL Well today, for another week, basketball issue will be on the front burner. Lest we forget, only last week the Federal Government re­versed itself on the two-year self-imposed ban from interna­tional basketball. The ban was premised on the leadership crisis in the federation. When the international with­drawal was announced, my reac­tion was considering the implica­tion of the action on D’Tigress players, who of course were the major casualties despite the re­versal. While sympathizing with them in one of my column en­titled “Who will comfort D’Ti­gress,” I never considered the fact that the players were naïve to have allowed themselves to be used by those who orchestrated the crisis underground when in a video posted online attacked Kida, vowing never to represent the country should Kida be elect­ed president of the NBBF. I am sure the players’ think­ing then was that with their threat, the government would deploy resources at its disposal to stop Kida from contesting the election. Alas this was not the case. Kida contested and won. But they failed to realize that, they were being used and that their action was the plank used by the detractors to actualize their hidden agenda of want­ing to get Kida from basketball. Now their (players) words have come to pass, as they will not take part in the World Cup in Australia in September. The les­son in this is that never allow anyone to use you. Mind your words and as players, it is not for you to decide who should lead the federation. I think the players must have learnt a bit­ter lesson from this. However, I want to commend Kida for his patriotism in that in the midst of all these shenani­gans against him, he has within a short time raised a team for the third window of the 2023 World Cup qualifying tournament in Kigali. D’Tigers lost their open­ing game 70-79 to Cape Verde on Friday. I know his detractors will be sharpening their weapons of attack. But before they do this, they should consider the time frame when the ban was lifted and the time for the qualifiers tipped off in Kigali. Seriously, Kida deserves our praises for being able to raise a team within a short time realiz­ing that as at the time the govern­ment reversed itself last week, players were already on holidays. They had switched from playing mood to holiday mood. They want to go out there and enjoy themselves. For being able to name a team is a patriotic act as he starved off potential FIBA sanction if the country failed to be part of the qualifiers. We should realize that for withdrawing from the Women’s World Cup, FIBA has not announced its sanctions. It would have been double jeopar­dy if Nigeria did not attend the Kigali event.