ABUJA – Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday inaugurated a national campaign team to actualize Atiku Abubakar’s presidency. The leaders under the aegis of the National Mandate Group pointed out that the focus of the next government is who will be able to fix the country. Addressing members of the Board of Trustees during their formal inauguration andthe inaugural meeting of the national caucus in Abuja, the National Coordinator of the group and former lawmaker, Senator Lee Maeba, said that the nation cannot get good governance from godfatherism. Disclosing that they are ready to prepare the youths for leadership and promote good governance, Maeba said that they are committed to the actualization of the Atiku Abubakar presidency in 2023. The group vowed to root out godfatherism from Nigerian politics in 2023. He said a situation where only those supported by godfathers like the President, Governors and party leaders win election is no longer acceptable. The former lawmaker said: “We cannot get good governance from godfatherism. The mandate group is working to prepare the youths for governance. So many lawmakers have become legislative assistants to their governors. This cannot bring about good governance. “We are committed to working for the actualization of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar Presidency. We are all going to work to deliver the Atiku/Okowa ticket. We shall develop what we call Atiku Quick – fix of what the candidate will do for the people. POLL “We have looked at all the Presidential candidates and who they are and we have resolved that the agenda of the PDP candidate Atiku Abubakar align with what we believe in. “Right now we have the problem of food security, farmers cannot go to farm anywhere; if they go to the farm, they will be kidnapped and the government is not importing enough food for the people. We are talking about fuel subsidy, what of food subsidy? “Look at the school system, because of the strike our children can no longer graduate. The focus of the next government is how to quickly fix the problem in the country. That is why we are here to speak of the Atiku Quick fix for the country. “Quick fix in the security sector, education sector, food security, social welfare scheme. The issue now is all Nigerians are not happy with the situation, so where do we go from here? PDP has what it takes to turn things around. Government need to provide food for the people and no stone should be left unturned.” Also speaking, the Chairman, Board of Trustees of the mandate group, Ambassador Hassan Tukur, said the group is ready to work 24 hours to rescue Nigeria from the present mess. Lamenting the negative situation in the country, Tukur explained that what is lacking now is National unity and cohesion. He lamented that all Nigerians have become victims of the present All Progressives Congress (APC) government, adding, “if you have not been kidnapped, you must have paid ransom for the release of relatives, friends and associates.” Disclosing what the group will do to actualize the PDP mandate in 2023, Tukur explained that they are committed to mobilising the people from every local government, galvanize the youths, women to work for the actualization of the PDP mandate in 2023. He said: “This mandate Group believes that the present problems in the country can be solved. But we need the right people.” Also speaking, the former Minister of Information, Labaran Maku said that APC should apologize to Nigeria for their failures, rather than standing for election in 2023.