The traditional head of Eze Ndigbo in Akure, Ondo State capital, otherwise known as the Asiwaju Ndigbo of Akureland, Chief (Dr) Ezeorji Titus-Umenweke on Saturday installed 20 members of Asiwaju Ndigbo in Council. It was pomp and celebration as traditional heads of Ndigbo from different communities in the state and His Highness, Igwe Dr Boniface Ibekwe Ezedioranma, who is the Eze Ndigbo in Kano,  President-General of the Association of Eze Ndigbo in Diaspora and National Chairman Inter-Tribal Traditional Leaders Association of Nigeria, with other personalities, graced the installation ceremony at the Ijoka Palace of the Ndigbo head in Akure land. During the installation ceremony, the Asiwaju Ndigbo called on all Igbos residents in the state capital to work towards ensuring peace in the state and abide by the laws of the land. He urged them to extend the hand of fellowship to other ethnic groups in their various places of residence. Chief Titus-Umenweke emphasised that all Igbos residents in the state capital should be loyal to the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, who he said recognized Igbos’ huge contributions to the socio-economic development of Akure and the state in general. Dr Boniface Ibekwe Ezedioranma in his address at the event commended the Igbos living in Akure for their solidarity, promising that there would be progress in Akure because Igbos always developed anywhere they live. He said: “Wherever we find ourselves, we always develop the place and live in peace there. So, we must make sure we respect the law of this land and extend our hands of fellowship to other ethnic nationalities living in this town. “I know Asiwaju Umenweke will make Ndigbo proud because to whom much is given, much is expected. Whatever it will cost to bring our people together to make peace in this state. It’s an assignment I’m giving to him, please, do the needful.” POLL Dr Ibekwe commended the Deji of Akure for recognizing Igbos and at the same time for the honour given to Ibos in general. In his address, the Asiwaju of Ndigbo, Dr Titus Umenweke described his new position as a service to God and humanity and not for self-aggrandizement. He, therefore, promised to be fair to everyone and ensure peace reigns supreme, adding that he would carry everyone along in his dealings. Chief Okon Okechukwu, who is the second in command to the Asiwaju Ndigbo, said he felt fulfilled to be installed as the second in command. He declared that he was ready to serve his people with all he has and work with and support the new Asiwaju and other council members. Also speaking, one of the Asiwaju Ndigbo council members, Dr Ayola said that he would use his post to bring people together and work together with the Asiwaju for the development of the people and the town.