Oyo State governorship candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) for the 2023 general elections, Eng. Olukayode Joshua Popoola, in this interview with journalists, says he decided to contest against Seyi Makinde because the governor has not fulfilled his electoral promises to the people. He also discloses that the NNPP will spring a surprise and take over the leadership of the country at the Federal level. AKINWUNMI KING, who was part of the interview session, brings the excerpts: There were reports of attacks against you and some others when you left the PDP for the NNPP, can you give us the details? Alhaji Bisi Olopoeyan, some others, and myself left the PDP and declared for the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) on April 12, 2022. The National Secretary, South-West Chairman, and some national officers of the party were there to witness it. The programme was very impressive and everybody was happy. We left the PDP because everybody wanted freedom. The PDP is more or less a party of imposition, you don’t have a say of your own. You cannot say that this is what you want except what some people in the party wanted you to be. I wanted to contest to run for the governorship position of Oyo State. We had our own Congress in the PDP last year. We held our own congress at Jogo Centre, while Governor Seyi Makinde’s faction did their own at Adamasingba Stadium and the issues there have not been resolved till now. That made those of us who wanted to contest to leave the party. If we did not want to contest, we would not leave the party, but we wanted to contest. Under NNPP, you are given the opportunity to contest. That was why we left the PDP to join NNPP. They were not happy that Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan left the party with me. After the declaration, some thugs came around and started shooting. One of them was caught and handed over to the police. No life was lost, but the shooting was so intense that people ran helter skelter. Thank God, no life was lost and our leader, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan and I were not hurt. Governor Seyi Makinde would be completing his first term next year and it is natural for him to go for a second term, why did you want to take over from him even under the PDP then? I want to take over from him because what he is doing in Oyo State is not what the electorate that voted for him expects. For instance, there is a lot of insecurity in Oyo State. People find it difficult to move around freely whether in the daytime or at night. People are being terrorised, so many people have been killed and properties have been damaged. Apart from the infrastructural deficiency in Oyo State, insecurity is high. Those are the reasons that made me say I want to contest for the governorship position of Oyo State in 2023. By the constitution, the place would be vacant because it is a four-year single term. If you have done well for the first term, people can vote for you again, but if you have not done well, they will vote you out. That is why you see me under NNPP coming out. Governor Seyi Makinde also wants to come out, and some other people are coming out too because the place would be vacant in 2023. NNPP is relatively new in the country, how do you hope to get that popularity to defeat the two major parties in 2023? NNPP came to Oyo State less than four months ago. We started organising the party in the state around March, if you see the number of party members that we have now under the NNPP, you would be surprised. That is an indication that people are tired of the PDP and APC. Why are they tired? The PDP was in power at the federal level for 16 years and the APC would complete eight years by 2023, what have they achieved? They have not achieved anything, which is why everybody welcomes NNPP. The leaders of the party are men of integrity. They are people that have been tested, someone like Dr. Rabiu Kwakwanso who was the governor of Kano State. Today, Kano State is the safest in the country, which is due to the foundation laid by Senator Kwakwanso. He was a senator and he started from the Federal House of Representatives. That is why people that are tired of the PDP, and the APC, now look at the leader of the NNPP, and decide to join the party. By 2023, the party would spring a surprise and take over the leadership of the country at the Federal level. What programmes do you have for the youth, women and others in Oyo State? POLL The youths will not be relegated; they will be carried along in government’s activities. The mistake people make is that everybody should go to the farm. It is not everybody that can go to farm; it is not every youth that can do farming because of unemployment. Farming itself is a profession, if you want to go into farming, the NNPP government in Oyo State will encourage you, we will assist you and give you farm implements and cash to make sure you succeed as a farmer. If you are not interested in farming, there will be skill acquisition to train auto mechanics, electricians and others. All these are the things people can do. What is in vogue now is ICT, we are going to encourage the youths to be IT compliant. There are a lot of jobs that can be created through IT. We will assist them with the IT hub in the state and we will do it across the three senatorial districts in the state so that it would spread across the state. Youth empowerment would be my priority in 2023 under NNPP. Elderly people from 75 years of age would be supported with stipends across the senatorial districts. We will provide a database for this. We will provide the stipends on a monthly basis. In addition to that, urban renewal would be emphasised. Most places in Oyo State still look the way they were looking when we were growing up. Something has to be done to change that and we will ensure the modernisation of the cities across the senatorial districts in Oyo State. You spoke about insecurity in Oyo State, how do you hope to tackle this because there is Amotekun and the regular police in the state? There is Amotekun, there is Nigeria Police, Nigeria Army and even Nigeria Civil Defence. You will see that with the situation of things in the country, they are not enough and they are not as efficient as they ought to be. This means that something is lacking. All you need to do is to carry the people along. We have the traditional rulers. Some of these people live with us, they are the children of some people. So, you have to bring the traditional rulers in, bring the parents in, work with them and strengthen the security of the state. It is not enough to provide gadgets, this would be provided, modern gadgets would be provided, what of the people? They know all these criminals, by the time you carry them along, it would be better. Everybody wants security of lives and properties. Bring them together, dialogue with them and see whether there would be positive results or not. Will you support the creation of state police, restructuring and resource control in Nigeria? State police is very necessary to provide security for the people. On restructuring, it is long overdue, we have peculiarities in every section of the country and it should be an added advantage to each of the regions. We have tried to be together for long and we have seen that it is not working again, so restructuring should be encouraged. Politics is seen as a dirty game in Nigeria, one wonders why a successful engineer like you went into politics They are saying it is dirty and you have left it for the people that are not supposed to be there. If you, that is intelligent and have your brain working well, stays back and somebody who has no business in it takes over, it is whatever he says that you will do. I want to go there and make my own contributions, by the time I get there, many people that are very intelligent and successful and know the business of government would also come out, take over and Nigeria would become a better place. We cannot say because it is dirty we just allow some people to take over just like that. I want to make my own contributions and let us see what can be done. What are the chances of your party at the federal level with Rabiu Kwakwanso as your presidential candidate and we have the likes of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Mr. Peter Obi for the APC, PDP and Labour Party respectively? If you put the four of them on a scale, with the pedigree of Dr. Rabiu Kwakwanso, I think his weight is the highest amongst the four. He has served as a member of the Federal House of Representatives, he was governor of Kano State, the biggest state in the country as it has the largest population. He was able to govern the state successfully for two good terms, and after that, he went to the Senate, from there he also served as minister of defence. You would see that he is more qualified than the others. With all these, you will agree with me that the NNPP has a better chance than the others. What is your charge to INEC on the 2023 general elections? INEC has been working well, they should continue like that. They promised that our votes will count and we have seen it in the recent election in Ekiti State. It showed that our votes will count. The people spoke and their voices were heard. That is why we rely on them that by 2023 our votes would count. When we were doing our primary, the INEC Electoral Commissioner in Oyo State was there and he said whoever would rely on rigging should go and find another country. He said it would not happen in Nigeria of today and he said people should go out and register. That is why you see people going out to register to get their PVC. So, there is hope and I pray it will be like that. I want to advise that INEC should test run as many machines as possible and see if they would work. I believe that the people’s votes would count in 2023.