LAGOS  – The Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), and the other analysts have advocated the need for well-coordinated fiscal and monetary policies in promoting growth-enhancing and confidence-building policies that would encourage private and foreign capital inflows into the economy. Besides, they stated that rate hikes alone will not curb the inflationary pressures, but that there was need to pay attention to supply-side support to cushion rising production costs due to the high cost of energy and raw materials. They advocated that the rising energy costs with diesel above N800/litre, Jet-A1 at N710 per litre, and PMS selling above the government-regulated price of N165/litre will continue to aggravate production costs which may lead to restrained manufacturing and eventual job losses as well as continue to heavily ruffle the pace of recovery in last two quarters of 2022. They maintained that the fiscal and monetary authorities should address the long-term challenges in a timely manner to avoid significant economic consequences. They also told DAILY INDEPENDENT that there was need for the Federal Government to initiate policy measures that will address rising incidence of insecurity required for seamless farming, food production to build resilience to balance of payments shocks and ensure a sustainable economic recovery. They said that the escalation of production and operating costs for businesses, leading to erosion of profit margins, drop in sales, decline in turnover and weak manufacturing capacity utilisation would have significant economic consequences in both short and long run this year. President Muhammadu Buhari had sent to the Senate, the Business Facilitation (Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill 2022, for consideration and passage into law. President Buhari, in the letter, said that the expeditious consideration and passage of the bill would promote the ease of doing business in Nigeria. POLL The letter read, “Pursuant to Sections 58(2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), I forward herewith the Business Facilitation (Miscellaneous Provision) Bill 2022 for the kind consideration of the Senate. Business Facilitation (Miscellaneous Provision) Bill 2022 seeks to promote the war of doing business in Nigeria by amending relevant legislation. While hoping that this submission will receive the usual expeditious consideration of the Senate, please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Michael Olawale-Cole, president of LCCI, said sustaining the pace of recovery in 2022 and navigating through the growing uncertainties in the global economy requires well-coordinated fiscal and monetary policies by the Federal Government to boost foreign capital inflows into the economy. He said: “In the third quarter, many factors will weigh on growth such as CBN’s rate hike as well as the rate hikes by other central banks around the world; rising energy costs with diesel above N800/litre, Jet-A1 at N710 per litre, and PMS selling above the government-regulated price of N165/litre. “These price levels will continue to aggravate production costs which and eventual job losses. may lead to restrained manufacturing “The worsening security situation in many parts of the country will continue to threaten agricultural production, manufacturing value chains, and logistics. “We expect to experience some fiscal constraints because of debt overhang accompanied by a high debt service burden and heavy subsidy costs. “There are therefore, heightened fears of contracting output, constrained production, and recession risks as we navigate the murky waters of 2022. To sustain the pace of recovery in 2022 and navigating through the growing uncertainties in the global economy, he advised the Federal Government to ensure food security, agriculture output was sustainably boosted and continued dependence on imports discouraged. He added: “For food security, scarcity is looming large on the horizon, and if nothing smart and quick is done, it would further exacerbate the plight of the poor. “Fuel subsidies should be removed and oil theft curtailed if not eliminated to provide fiscal space for subsidized production of goods and services as well as for infrastructure, health, and education financing. “The Human Development Index (HDI) of Nigeria, which is the index used by the United Nations to measure real development in a country, was 0.539 points in 2019, leaving it in 161st place in the table of 189 countries last published. “While the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) embarks on monetary tightening to tame inflation, it should ensure that targeted concessionary credit to the private sector is sustained for MSMEs. “The CBN needs to initiate a gradual transition to a unified exchange rate system and allow for a market reflective exchange rate. The CBN also needs to roll out more friendly supply-side policies to boost productive sectors, bolster investor confidence and help attract foreign investment inflows into the economy. “There is a need to address structural bottlenecks and regulatory constraints that contribute to the high cost of doing business. A supportive and conducive investment environment is critical in facilitating private sector involvement in the economic recovery and growth process. “The government should initiate moves towards having cost-reflective tariffs in the power sector as this will attract the needed investment to boost power supply and possibly end the frequent crashes of the national grid. We should also begin to initiate special-purpose interventions in boosting the deployment of renewable energy”. On inflation, the LCCI President said: “The position of the Chamber was confirmed by the latest Nigeria Development Update by the World Bank which highlighted the vulnerability of the Nigerian economy due to rising inflation pressures, forex illiquidity crisis, worsening insecurity, poor power supply, and weak infrastructure. “We reiterate our position on the rising inflation that rates hike alone will not tame the rising inflation. “We posit that only the removal of fuel subsidies and the boosting of local refining will resolve the worsening crises in fuel supply and its multiplier effects on production and prices”. On the foreign exchange market, Olawale-Cole, said: “The Naira has recorded unprecedented volatility in the first quarter of 2022 with a widening premium between the official (NAFEX) rate (at N415/USD) and the BDC/Parallel market rate (of N615/ USD). “The Chamber’s position is that monetary authorities need to liberalize the FX market by unifying the multiple FX rates and ensuring FX rates are market-driven. This is critical in the process of enhancing stability, liquidity, and transparency in the FX market. “The unification is expected to improve our currency management framework given that the multiple exchange rate systems have continued to create uncertainties and sources of arbitrage”. On monetary policy development, he said: “The Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria, in their May 2022 meeting voted unanimously to raise the benchmark interest rate to 13% after two years of expansionary monetary policy. “The rate was maintained at 11.5% since September 2020. The hike in rates was primarily to curb the surging inflation rate which stood at 17.7 percent as of May 2022. “The CBN is faced with the dilemma of deciding on a contractionary policy in the face of fragile growth. On a balance, it is quite clear and compelling that tackling inflation is quite urgent in the sequence of policy objectives”. Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi, President of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) in an exclusive interview with Daily Independent, emphasised the need for the Federal Government to launch a major campaign to increase non-oil exports. According to Adeniyi, businesses in the country are faced with the challenges of policy somersault resulting from government policy inconsistency. “Often time, National Policies are not allowed to gestate before being changed, which leads to loss of Private Sector investments”. He said: “We need to also diversify our exports by boosting our local refining capacity, production of petrochemical products, and accelerating reforms in the Oil & Gas sector to attract more foreign investments in the coming months. Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN),told DAILY INDEPENDENT, that the Federal Government should support manufacturing to accelerate the process of recovery from the aftermath of COVID-19 and previous bouts of recession to avert the complete shutdown of factories nationwide with multiplier effect on the employment “We call on the Federal Government to urgently allow manufacturers and independent petroleum products marketing companies to also import AGO from the Republic of Niger and Chad by immediately opening up border posts in that axis in order to cushion the effect of the supply gap driven high cost of AGO”, he said Dr Muda Yusuf, Economist/CEO, Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE) in an exclusive interview with DAILY INDEPENDENT, said government must invest more in boosting supply and cushioning the cost of production. Besides, the burdening impact of fuel costs on businesses will remain as long as we keep importing refined fuels for our teeming population and neighboring countries. “We need more FDIs to create jobs and increase output in the economy. To achieve this, we must tackle the worsening insecurity in many parts of the country and implement investment-friendly policies to create an enabling investment and regulatory environment”. Prince Degun Agboade, the President of National Association of Small and Medium Enterprise (NASME), in chat with our correspondent called on Federal Government to urgently address the collapsing Infrastructures of the nation’s economy. “While we have shared our views and perspectives with relevant Government Authorities, we also wish to re-emphasise our call for policies to address the soaring trade costs and insecurity, which are critical to mitigating the challenges of the implementation of AfCFTA Agreement”, he said Mr Olufemi Ajadi, the Managing Director of Bullion Go-Neat Global Limited, urged Nigerian banks to create more Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs) loans facilities in support of Nigerian entrepreneurs. He said funding support remained critical for survival of SMEs, adding thatb the government and its agencies had not seemed to appreciate that. He added:“ The current situation whereby emergent small firms are allowed to suffer due to the lack of finance was not auguring well for the economy”.