The dream of agro-cargo airport in Ogun State was conceptualised 15 years ago by the Otunba Gbenga Daniel’s administration, but was abandoned by his successor in office. However, in April 2021, the incumbent governor Mr. Dapo Abiodun commenced construction on the airport project and promised to deliver before the end of 2022. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. No fewer than 15 State Governors in Nigeria are refocusing their energies towards the construction of agro-cargo airports in the country. Among the states are Ekiti (Akure), Rivers State (Calabar), Kwara (Ilorin), Taraba (Jalingo), Plateau (Jos), Kano, Benue (Dauda), Niger (Minna), Imo (Owerri), Anambra (Umuleri), Akwa Ibom (Uyo) and Ogun. Some of the aims of the State governments are to ensure easy, seamless exportation and importation of agricultural produce, creation of more employment opportunities for teeming youth and qualified personnel and ensuring increase in their Internally Generated Revenues (IGRs). Though, stakeholders in the aviation industry said if well-executed, the emergence of agro-cargo airports in the country would transform the aviation sector into a major revenue earner for Nigeria, but regrettably, most of the airports are not strategically located to attract investors and businesspersons to them as access to these airports is cumbersome and discouraging especially to investors. But, the siting of the Gateway Agro-Cargo International Airport at Ilisan-Remo by the Ogun State Government indicates the readiness of the government to attract investments, fulfill its mantra of job creation and boost its GDP to the state. According to the State Government, the new airport can be accessed through six entry points, among which are the Lagos-Sagamu, Lagos-Ibadan, Lagos-Epe expressways and others, thereby becoming the most opened aerodrome in Nigeria. The airport with two terminals; cargo and passenger, on completion would be one of the biggest in Nigeria with its 5,000 hectares of land and the many state-of-the-art facilities that already made private investors to jostle for a space at the aerodrome. POLL In a bid to deliver a topnotch project, the State Government, engaged the services of Craneburg Construction Company, one of Nigeria’s largest and most diversified private construction groups with a track record in airport construction. The company was responsible for the construction and delivering of the Anambra Cargo airport earlier in the year. Already, the four kilometres runway with four layers of different categories of asphalts has reached the 90 per cent completion stage, the perimeter fencing is about 100 per cent completed, its five-storey building control tower, which would enable easy view of the area by Air Traffic Controllers (ATCs) is at the third floor level, while the fire station building construction is ongoing. Although, the State Government could not be specific on the actual amount of money the entire project would gulp, but said its plan is to create an aerotropolis – airport city in the state and also, partner with private investors to establish numerous airport companies like the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility, agro processing centre and training school, among other key projects at the airport. Followers of the State Government said that the airport project is part of the five pillars of development instituted by Mr. Dapo Abiodun, the Governor of Ogun State on assumption of office in 2019. The five pillars according to them are Infrastructure, Social welfare and wellbeing, Education, Youth empowerment and job creation and Agriculture and food security with the acronym ‘ISEYA.’ Mr. Nicholas Mfarrej, Senior Project Manager, Craneburg Construction Company, while commenting on the project during the tour of the facility by our correspondent over the weekend, assured that the project would be completed before the end of the year. According to Mfarrej, the passenger terminal building for instance, has the capacity to accommodate 3,000 passengers at a time, while the apron can take four aircraft in the class of Boeing 777, Airbus 350 and other middle body aircraft category. He said: “The project would be completed before the end of this year; the runway would be completed before the end of this month (July), fire station, control tower, taxiway, apron and the cargo terminal building are at different stages of completion. “We can assure you that it will be completed 100 per cent before the end of the year. The terminal building can take about 3,000 passengers at a time. We still have some redundancy capacity within the terminal. If four aircraft land at a time, there won’t be an issue with this terminal.” Besides, Mr. Ade Akinsanya, Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Ogun State confirmed the strategic location of the airport. According to him, the State Government put the unpleasant experience of users of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos into consideration when locating the agro-cargo airport at Ilisan-Remo. He explained that the Lagos airport remains one of the most difficult aerodromes in the country to access for passengers and other users of the facility, despite the expansion of the road, but for the Gateway Agro-Cargo International Airport, accessibility is multilayers. “For this airport, you can access it through six locations; Lagos-Sagamu, Lagos-Ibadan, Lagos-Epe and others. I don’t think any airport can rival it anywhere within this country and the facility is unique. The design was done by one of the famous consulting firms in the world. They have done more airport designs probably than anyone else. “So, that credibility is there. The standards we are meeting are world class. Everything we have here is something that complies with the Nigerian and international standards. Akinsanya added further that the total weight of the runway is 60; 45 and 7.5 shoulders each on the two sides with four layers of different classes of 65mm of asphalt for the first layer, 50mm for the second layer, while the third and fourth would be about 100mm of asphalt each. He added that unlike most airports across the country, the new airport already has security fencing to ward off criminality and encroachment of the facility by any unauthorised persons, adding that despite this, on completion, there would be security patrol by the combined team of security agencies, patrolling all the sides of the facility. The terminal he noted is a hybrid of Morocco and a bit of Paris airports and still gives room for future expansion, stressing further that the control tower is uniquely designed to pronounce the architectural masterpiece. To boost its efficiency, Akinsanya explained that the only testing site approved by the African Development Bank (AfDB) for the continent for agricultural produce would be located at Sagamu area of the state, which is about 10 minutes drive from the airport. He said with this, the State Government has been able to address the challenges of exporter and the rejection of Nigerian produced by international community. “That is one of the challenges people exporting goods out of Nigeria face because most of those goods don’t meet the international standard. So, before anything goes out, it will be tested here and it is just nearby. “On the warehousing facilities, I want to say it here that the state is not in the business of doing all those things. We are going to have private investors to invest in the airport project. Already, there are lots of enquiries. Even, the Federal Government is interested. The State Government will provide private investors with the facilities to grow their businesses. That is why it is aerotropolis,” he said. According to him, all the key aviation agencies like the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) were carried along at every developmental stages of the project. He insisted that the airport complied with Nigeria and international standards as recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). For Mr. Abdulwaheed Odusile, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, the project was part of the mandate of the Governor Dapo Abiodun to complete every project embarked upon by the previous administrations in the state. On completion, the commissioner said the airport would be the fastest aerodrome project to start from the scratch and completed within 18 months in the country. He explained that on completion, the airport would create more jobs for the teeming youth and ensure easy distribution of cargo between the state and Nigeria on one hand and the entire world on the other hand. He said: “By the grace of God, before the end of this year, aircraft will take-off and land on this airport. That will be the first of its kind in the country. This airport would be the fastest built airport in Nigeria. We started the construction of this airport from the scratch in April 2021. This airport would be an international airport in all ramifications. “The 4km runway is almost ready, the construction of the fire station is on, the control tower and the administrative building is there and those are the essential components of an airport. Every other thing as you know is luxury and comfort. “Even at that you, will marvel by the architectural design of the terminal building. We are not just building an airport, we are building an aerotropolis. We are bringing different people and don’t forget, this is a specialised airport as it will be an agro-cargo airport. Though, there is another facility for passenger operations.” However, some aviation analysts have hailed the Ogun State Government for embarking on the project, but said the government should be business-minded in its activities. Mr. Felix Amokwu, aviation analyst, said that the airport project would attract more investors to the state, especially importers and exporters who would prefer the facility to the one in Lagos. Besides, he said the dream of an aerotropolis may be a tall order, but said it is achievable for the future.