SYLVESTER ENOGHASE Dangote Cement Plc recently unveiled season-3 ‘Goodies bag’ consumer promotion is targeted at empowering over 500 Nigerians with a total of over N1billion cash prizes for the next 16 weeks will kick-start small scale businesses, rejig industrialisation drive, Michel Puchercos, Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, has said. Puchercos, in chats with Daily Independent, acknowledged that consumers have contributed in no small measure to make Dangote range of cement products the first choice for construction purposes across the country. He said: “We are offering life-changing prizes, which have immense economic values as they can be used to kick-start small scale businesses. These prizes are targeted to help many families recover from the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic, which adversely affected their sources of livelihood.” According to him, consumers stand the chance of winning over N1 billion life-changing cash prizes in the Dangote Bag of Goodies Season 3 promo, tagged ‘Spell Dangote and become a multi-millionaire.’ “The Bag of Goodies Promo series is designed to continuously reward loyal Consumers who have stayed faithful and remained the backbone in the cement business”, he said. He noted that the promo, which was launched in Lagos in the presence of regulators from the National Lottery Regulatory Commission and Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission recently, is expected to offer life-changing prizes, which will have immense economic values to the loyal consumers. He emphasised that the company has a wide range of gifts and rewards for consumers of the Dangote Cement brand in this new promo. -Advertisement- POLL He noted that the promo is open to all consumers of Dangote Cement products, while redemption of the gift items will be at the company’s depots, regional offices, and at specially selected wholesale outlets in areas that are distant from the company’s depots and offices. “We are expecting over 500 consumers to emerge as millionaires in the promo, and we have made the process of winning as easy as possible,” he said He, however, said: “Testimonies abound from the previous winners in Bag of Goodies Season 2 Promo. Onwemere Anselm, a winner from Ihiala, Anambra State invested his million-naira prize money in starting a new business. Today he has opened three shops in different locations. Opara Augustine from Imo State invested the prize money in his block-moulding business. He is buying more bags of cement which translates into more blocks and better sales. Funmi Sanni, National Sales Director, Dangote Cement, while giving details about the promo, described the promo as a huge investment aimed at rewarding new and existing consumers, “especially in these trying times of our nationhood with the much needed financial and material palliatives.” She said the promo is also targeted at stimulating the economy that has been negatively impacted by COVID-19 and global energy crisis to move towards much needed recovery especially in the construction/ real estate industry sector. She explained: “To emerge as one of the lucky winners, all you need to do is to pick out the scratch card inserted in the bag; scratch the panel at the back of the card to reveal what you have won; go to any of the over 200 redemption centers to collect an instant prize. Collect cards, spell D-A-N-G-O-T-E and win a star prize of N1 million instantly. Additionally, if you find an eagle in one of the letters, you will automatically win N5 million.” Sanni said N125 million worth of prizes are expected to be won monthly, among which there will be 25 multi-millionaires. “The good thing about this promo is that a consumer stands the chance of winning the N1 million repeatedly. There is no limit to the number of times you are expected to win. All you should do is continue to buy Dangote Cement. “Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season 3, which runs from July 5 to October 31, 2022, promises to be a blast as there are over 32.3 million mouth-watering prizes to be won, including television sets, refrigerators, rechargeable fans, 2KVA generators, and millions of airtime gifts of major networks in Nigeria. “Interestingly, every single bag of Dangote Cement to be produced daily through the promo period will contain scratch cards for various gifts to be won by consumers”, she said. Mrs. Susie Onwuka, the Head, Lagos Office, Federal Competition, and Consumer Protection Commission, while validating the promo, commended Dangote Cement for giving back to consumers through the Bag of Goodies promo. “Dangote has always fulfilled its promises to the consumers of its product. Our duty at the agency is to protect the right of the consumers. Dangote Cement has lived up to expectations,” she said. Mr. Obi Iregbu, Director, Inventory and operations, National Lottery Regulation Commission, said Dangote Cement Promo has always been massive and impressive. “This Season 3 promo is bigger than Season 1 and 2 past promos. I want Dangote to continue to add value to the lives of the consumers of its product. In so doing, the company is also helping to boost economic activities in Nigeria,” he said. Edet Udeme from Delta State acquired a motorcycle to increase mobility in reaching more cement customers. Yahaya Isah Abdullahi from Kano State expanded his business, as he buys more bags of cement for sale rather than depending on credit grants from distributors. He has more capital to run his businesses.” It would be recalled that two years down the line, past winners of the Dangote Cement consumer promo have commended the management for the positive economic impact of the promo on their lives. Just as the company is set to roll out the season three of its promo, some of the winners who spoke on the impact of the cars and millions of Naira won during the promo described the promo as a big relief and a palliative sort of coming during the excruciating impact of the COVID-19 when the whole world was shut down. It would be recalled that 450 consumers had emerged either as a millionaire or car owners even as others won hundreds of tricycles during the season one and two of the consumer promo. The star winners across Nigeria, who were presented with brand new saloon cars or one million naira as prizes, commended the cement manufacturing giant and its Chairman, Aliko Dangote for transforming their lives. Some of the excited winners, who were contacted by telephone, recalled how they initially thought it was a dream but were later presented with their prizes in the full glare f the public. They said their winnings had enhanced their life and living and hailed the sincerity of Dangote Cement in handing over the cars to them and urged Nigerians to participate in the next promo coming up in 2022. A winner, Mr. Clement James of Marble Construction, Kaduna State who won a car during the last Dangote Cement promo said that prize has enhanced the profitability of his business. According to him, the car has assisted the company in marketing Dangote Cement within and outside Kaduna. “We have been using the car to meet clients and customers’ needs in and around the state. This has further increased our customer base and boost our profitability,” he stated. He pointed out that the car gift has further shown Dangote’s interest in empowering its product consumers and customers. “The truth is that the car gift has made people to understand that Dangote is not only interested in making profits, but also highly interested in impacting lives of consumers of its products. Before now, we only hear of how much Dangote contributes to empowerment and have not experienced it. With the Dangote Cement promo, we were able to actually feel the impact directly. It now boosts the confidence of consumers on the company’s products.” Another, Emmanuel Boye, the Managing Director of Awuley Investment Limited, Abuja said that the Dangote Cement’s branded car this company won has become a source of advertisement for Dangote Cement products as people are now becoming more aware of the products. “The prize has further increase customers’ behavior in a positive way. The truth is that many people in our locality now have more confidence in us that we are selling high quality cement. The branded car has made the customer to believe that we are not selling counterfeit re-bagged product because they have seen something to confirm that we are getting the product directly from the company’s factory. So, our sales volume has greatly improved in the past two years.” Apart from the car prize, some other consumers especially those a million naira during the promo said they used the cash to expand their businesses. We are expecting over 500 consumers to emerge as millionaires in the promo, and we have made the process of winning as easy as possible Mr. Nsikan Emmanue from Calabar, who was one of the One million prize winners said: “The Dangote Cement Sales Promotion was a technique that attracted consumers to purchase more of Dangote Cement and they have continued to patronize the product. Dangote is the only cement company in Nigeria that produces quality cement at affordable price. For Mr. Edit Udeme of Delta State who also won one million naira said he used part of the money to expand his business and another part to purchase a motorcycle for customer contact and product distribution. He said that the motorcycle has enhanced his mobility and enabled him to reach out to more consumer of Dangote Cement. “I want to thank Dangote Cement for impacting the lives of consumers through the cement promo. It will be good to see more of such promos in the future,” he said. Speaking on the promos, Group Chief, Branding and Communication, Dangote Industries Ltd, Mr. Anthony Chiejina explained that the company’s decision to launch the promos for the consumer was in tandem with the vision and mission of the company which is basically to tough the lives of the people by providing their basic needs. The timing of the promo, two years ago, according to him was very strategic as the who world was feeling the pangs of the covid and the management thought it was good to come to the aid of its loyal customers by rewarding them via the promo. Said he: “when Dangote Cement came out with Bag of Goodies Season 2 themed Spell Dangote and Win a Million Naira promo in 2020, it had one thing in mind, and that is to give back to the consumers of the product and impact as many lives as possible. “Two years after the promo, the company can confidently attest to the fact that it has been able to contribute positively to the lives and business of its consumers. The mega promo, which produced hundreds of winners across the country assisted in mitigating the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on consumers and dealers of Dangote Cement who were battling with low sales then due to the restrictions on economic activities then.”