ABAKALIKI – The Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for Ebonyi South Senatorial district for the 2023 general elections, Mrs Blessing Nwankwo Egbedi, has voluntarily withdrawn from the race. Egbedi in a statement titled, “The People’s Project yet on the right track”, personally signed by her and made available to Journalists in Abakaliki on Tuesday, disclosed that her withdrawal from the race was to enable the party to balance the power equation to accommodate other parts of the State to ensure victory at the polls. She, however, hinted she will still be on the ballot for the 2023 elections under the same party, promising to communicate her next move to her supporters in the coming days as she has opted to vie for a political position that would afford her a better opportunity to be closer to her people in 2023. Egbedi thanked the people of the Senatorial district for their support and commitments towards her political project so far, noting that her desire to contest for an elective position was fuelled by her passion to see the people have better conditions of living. The full text of her withdrawal statement reads: “To my esteemed dearest supporters in Onicha and indeed Ebonyi South zone, I write to officially inform you all; my highly reverenced supporters and support groups cutting across the length and breadth of Onicha-Igboeze in particular and the entire Ebonyi South Senatorial zone in general about the necessary changes in the political equations and calculations in our great Party- the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA leading to the scheduled primary elections meant for substitutions of some candidates in some parts of our dear State. “As we all know, politics is about balancing the power equation to accommodate other parts of the State and ensure victory for a political party desirous of triumph. This is at the heart of the key changes ongoing in our beloved Party and it is all for our own benefit and indeed that of the State as we approach the ballot in the 2023 general elections. “To this end, therefore, I wish to intimate the teeming supporters of my official withdrawal as the Senatorial candidate of our party for the Ebonyi South Senatorial zone in the 2023 general elections. I sincerely appreciate your support and commitment to my project since we took off in May this year. “Of course, it bothers re-emphasizing that my desire to contest for an elective position was first fuelled by my passion to see my people have better conditions of living through provision for good education, quality healthcare, hygienic drinking water and creation of opportunities for our hardworking youths to work and thrive in their various endeavours rather than become willing tools in the hands of the same old politicians that have impoverished them for their selfish interests. POLL “Moreso is the fact that I am vastly interested in Ebonyi politics not to play the known old fashion but to change the perception and narratives about women’s participation in politics in our dear State and Nigeria in general. Most often, our women don’t get what they want or deserve because they are afraid to ask or work hard for it in the first place. “My case is however spectacularly different because I believe that any influential woman can get and have the same opportunity with their male counterparts especially if they have something concrete to offer the masses. “This desire, I am resolute to pursue with your unwavering support and co-operation so that we can all access and enjoy our collective wealth and resources. This is even as I felicitate all the old and about-to-emerge candidates for the 2023 general elections in the State. With the love and massive support of the Ebonyi electorates who are already fed up with the activities of the fading, crises-soaked dominant political parties, our victories at the polls in the 2023 general elections are very well assured! “Therefore, I have decided to contest for a political position that would afford me a better opportunity to be closer to my people. A journey of a thousand miles starts with a step and that step we have taken. More information and actions geared towards the realization of this noble pursuit which will be for the overall best interest of Ndi Onicha and OHANIVO in general would be duly communicated to all our supporters and support groups in the days ahead! “For now, be rest assured that I’m still on the journey with you to change the narrative and we will SURELY achieve this noble dream by God’s special enablement and empowerment. And the very cheery news is that I will yet be on the ballot under the platform of our great Party- the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA (maka na nkea bu nkeanyi!).”