LAGOS – The Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu Support Group, AATSG, a frontline political organisation rooting for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appointed Hon Farouk Adamu Aliyu member of the Board of Trustees representing North West. Aliyu hails from Jigawa State and was elected a member of the National Assembly. He was appointed to the AATSG BoT to further boost the spread of the political organisation across the country. Speaking at the event, the national chairman of the organisation, Otunba Abayomi Odunowo said Aliyu was chosen to lead the mobilisation in the northwest. He further stated that as a flagship campaign group for Tinubu, it has become imperative for the organisation to look across the regions of the country and appoint capable hands to lead the charge as the nation inches closer to 2023. He contended that Tinubu is the president Nigeria needs in 2023 saying his development blueprint as governor of Lagos State is still being implemented by his successors many years after he had left office. Odunowo said Tinubu is a builder of men who cares less where you come from before considering you for an appointment emphasizing that all he cares about is your ability to do the job whether you are Gimba, or Dayo or Uche, is inconsequential to him. His words, ” It’s a great honour to appoint Hon Aliyu into the AATSG board. We appreciate your acceptance of the offer and we believe your wealth of experience in both politics and business will be of immense contribution to the advancement of AATSG in the North West and indeed across the country.” “AATSG was formed to mobilize for the presidential candidate of APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu to ensure he emerges as the next president of Nigeria. And frankly speaking, that’s the only outcome tenable to us. We have been campaigning long before the primaries and thank God he emerged as our candidate against all odds. -Advertisement- POLL “And I want to appreciate the leadership of APC and call for continuous support. Tinubu is the best candidate not only for the party but the country. His past achievements speak volumes. “He transformed the landscape of Lagos State. At a time, for twenty-three months, no federal allocation, yet the state did not collapse. His blueprint for development is still followed by successive governments. “In terms of building human capacity, he is second to none in present-day Nigeria. He has an army of followers that gets as high as the current vice president. And of course, we should not forget the pivotal role he played in making the current administration possible in 2015 against a PDP incumbent president. In his response, Hon Aliyu thanked the organisation for the appointments and pledged to do everything within his power to ensure Tinubu becomes president come 2023.