LAGOS – Association of Ex-Staff of Non-Consolidated Banks Nigeria has called on the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to comply with the judgement of the court to pay them their entitlements without further delay. Magnus Maduka, Chairman of the association stated this on Friday while addressing newsmen in Lagos.“We want the NDIC and CBN to comply with the judgement of the court on our matter without further delay because we have waited for 15 years and we cannot continue to wait. He said the association tried it’s best to go through diplomacy to get their money and all their efforts were either snubbed by regulatory authority or completely ignored. He said they are expecting about N5.7billion in the first instance but that it is more than that, stating that 1,116 people took NDIC and CBN to court. Maduka said the association came into being after the operating licences of their former employers were withdrawn by the Central Bank of Nigeria as a result of the 2005 banking consolidation. “After waiting for a long while and nothing was forth coming with regard to the payment of our severance package, we decided to come together collectively to seek legal redress. “This was how an umbrella body known as Association of Ex- Staff of Non- Consolidated Banks Nigeria was birthed. “Our first consultations were with the NDIC and we were assured that our members would be paid after sales of assets of the bank’s that could not consolidate. -Advertisement- POLL Maduka said after so many moves and nothing was forth coming, they decided to head for the Court.At the first sitting, the presiding judge, Dr. Benedict Kanyip informed us that we could not sue as a body since we were not unionised even if we were registered association with CAC. The judge said the only measure we could take was to appear as individuals before him. This was how we had several court sessions until finally a judgement was given in our favor on 23rd May, 2022. “We see the judgement as having a no victor no vanquished. We believe NDIC and CBN did what they seemed expedient but we only went to test the Justice of their decision in court rather than take the laws in our own hands. “We therefore strongly appeal to CBN and to NDIC to magnanimous enough to settle our claims without further ado. Our members have served this country in the banking industry for years of their lives. We are not responsible for the economic doldrums of our nation. We believe the delay in settling aims is uncalled for and could be misinterpreted to be callously punitive and not serving any positive purpose whatsoever. “The aggregate of our benefits is just pittance on CBN and NDIC. The CBN has the weightier matter of checkmating the free fall of the naira on its plate than the crumbs from her table that our members are demanding for some 15 long years. “We are not responsible for the financial crisis of the country and we should not be held hostage by the organisation. The CBN in particular has more serious jobs on their hands to arrest the dwindling fortunes of the naira and give us a stable economy so what we are asking for is like crumbs from their table. “NDIC has a lot of supervisory role to play in the banking industry to make sure that depositors funds are safe and intact so wasting time with our tiny request is like burning their candles from both ends,” he said.