LAGOS  – The Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has called on the Federal Government to put in place a well-coordinated fiscal and monetary policies initiatives that would promote growth-enhancing and confidence-building policies as well as encourage private and foreign capital inflows into the economy The Chamber also called on the federal Government to show concern to the current insecurity crisis because of its impact on businesses and the economy. Asiwaju (Dr.) Michael Olawale-Cole, President of LCCI, who made the calls during his media chats on the ‘state of the economy’, said: “There is a need to address structural bottlenecks and regulatory constraints that contribute to the high cost of doing business”. According to Olawale-Cole , “Sustaining the pace of recovery in 2022 and navigating through the growing uncertainties in the global economy requires well-coordinated fiscal and monetary policies in promoting growth-enhancing and confidence-building policies that would encourage private and foreign capital inflows into the economy” He emphasised that: “To ensure food security, agriculture output should be sustainably boosted and continued dependence on imports discouraged. “For food security, scarcity is looming large on the horizon, and if nothing smart and quick is done, it would further exacerbate the plight of the poor. “Fuel subsidies should be removed and oil theft curtailed if not eliminated to provide fiscal space for subsidised production of goods and services as well as for infrastructure, health, and education financing. “The Human Development Index (HDI) of Nigeria, which is the index used by the United Nations to measure real development in a country, was 0.539 points in 2019, leaving it in 161st place in the table of 189 countries last published. -Advertisement- POLL “While the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) embarks on monetary tightening to tame inflation, it should ensure that targeted concessionary credit to the private sector is sustained for MSMEs. “The CBN needs to initiate a gradual transition to a unified exchange rate system and allow for a market reflective exchange rate. “The CBN also needs to roll out more friendly supply-side policies to boost productive sectors, bolster investor confidence and help attract foreign investment inflows into the economy. “A supportive and conducive investment environment is critical in facilitating private sector involvement in the economic recovery and growth process. “The government should initiate moves towards having cost-reflective tariffs in the power sector as this will attract the needed investment to boost power supply and possibly end the frequent crashes of the national grid. We should also begin to initiate special-purpose interventions in boosting the deployment of renewable energy.