INNOCENT OWEH, KINGSLEY BEN­NETH, SEGUN OLANIYAN KATSINA, BOLU-OLU ESHO, RAYMOND OZOJI, FRANCIS ONOIRIBHOLO BUREAU CHIEF BENIN, SEYI TAIWO-OGUN­TUASE ABUJA / KATSINA / AKURE / AWKA / BENIN / LAGOS – President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday in Dau­ra, Katsina State, said in­creased disclosure of un­usual activities will expose bandits and terrorists, nudging the securi­ty apparatus to eliminate threats across the country. Speaking to newsmen after the Eid-el-Kabir prayers at his country home, the President said all those that had unleashed mayhem on innocent citizens should reflect on their atrocities, knowing that they soiled own name and their family reputation. “We are praying that the rainy season will be good for production of the food we eat in the country. “Look at when we closed the bor­ders for about two years, a lot of people went back to the farms and they have not regretted that deci­sion. Now we are feeding ourselves and exporting rice. “My advice is that people that are organising themselves and at­tacking institutions and communi­ties. The people know them. So let them report them to the security agencies. “I hope they will sit and reflect and make sure they save their names and their families,” he said. Also President Buhari advised Nigerian youths to look beyond culture, ethnicity and religion in relating with one another, urging more travels, mingling, tolerance and negotiations to appreciate the rich diversity of the country. POLL President Buhari, who received members of the National Youth Service Corps serving in Daura at his country home, said regular interface and broader vision of Nigeria as a whole will improve relationships, especially among the youths. “Thank you so much for coming to see me. I have been away from home since Sallah celebration a year ago. And my attention has been on Nigeria, which is bigger than my town. “Every time I meet former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, I always thank him for the NYSC, which helps people to move all over Nigeria. “Before the NYSC there were people who had never moved out of their locality,” he said. The President said the scheme broadened the horizon for many over the years, and reduced the tensions and misunderstandings that exist between strangers. “When I joined the army, I was posted to Abeokuta and then Lagos. And I have travelled all over Nige­ria,” he added. In his remarks, the Corps Liai­son Officer (CLO), Douglas Dam­ina, thanked the President for en­couraging sustenance of the NYSC, and promoting youth inclusiveness and empowerment. “Mr President we pray that the Almighty God will accept your prayers and remember your sacri­fices for the nation,” he said. At the Kofar Arewa Eid ground in Daura, President Muhammadu Buhari in company of his son, Yusuf, the emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruk Umar and other top ranking personalities observed the two Rak’at prayers to mark the Sal­lah occasion. The prayer which was led by Imam Safiyanu Yusuf Dansanwa commenced at about 10:00 am and ended exactly 10:05 am. Also in attendance were the traditional and religious leaders including the district, ward and vil­lage heads as well as the business and political stalwarts in the town. Thereafter, President Muham­madu Buhari slaughtered his ram as a mark of his sacrifice as or­dained by Allah. Before the commencement of the Eid prayers, security had been beefed up at the Eid ground by the Police, the army, the DSS, the Civ­il Defense Corps and other sister agencies to secure the place. Sunday Independent reporter observed that the Eid ground was surrounded by the security agen­cies with the movement of vehicles and others restricted. In Katsina, Governor Aminu Bello Masari in company of his deputy, QS Mannir Yakubu and oth­er top government functionaries observed their two Rak’at prayers at Usman Bin Fodio mosque in Mo­doji community. Imam Mukhtar Jibia led the prayers which had in attendance top political stakeholders, support­ers and other well-meaning people of the state. Shortly after the two Rak’at prayers, Governor Masari slaugh­tered his ram in commemoration of the occasion. Meanwhile, thousands of Muslims trooped out to various mosques in Katsina metropolis to observe the two Eid-elKabir Rak’at prayers. As early as six o’clock this morn­ing, Muslims both young and elder­ly were seen heading to designated Eid grounds to catch up with the prayers. The Executive Director Rural Electrification Fund, Rural Electri­fication Agency, Sanusi Ohiare, has urged Nigerians not to lose hope but to support security agencies to tackle the menace of kidnap­ping, terrorism and banditry in the country. Ohiare said that such civic re­sponsibility will go a long way in restoring peace and confidence in the minds of Nigerians; as it will create economic development, and boost prosperity in the land. He advised Muslim Faithful and others to support the federal government to tackle vices mili­tating against the country’s social, economic, and political develop­ments. The REF, REA Executive Di­rector equally called on muslims worldwide to imbibe the spirit of the celebration which he said is centered on sacrifice, love and obedience to the will of Almighty Allah. Immediate past Chairman of the Ondo State Oil Producing De­velopment Commission (OSOPA­DEC) and a chieftain of All Pro­gressives Congress (APC), Hon. Gbenga Edema, has urged Nige­rians to seize the opportunity pre­sented by the Eid el Kabir season to collectively pray the nation out of its socio-economic and political challenges. This was contained in his con­gratulatory message to Muslim faithful in Ondo State and in the country at large. The former member of the state House of Assembly implored Muslims to continue to emulate the love, kindness, and sacrifice displayed by the Holy Prophet Muhammad, (SAW), praying for peace and economic recovery in the country. Meanwhile, Miyetti Allah Cat­tle Breeders Association of Ni­geria (MACBAN) has advocated for peaceful coexistence between herders and their host commu­nities in the Southeast region of Nigeria. Zonal chairman of MACBAN Alhaji Gidado Soddiki who made the advocacy in a press release issued to our correspondent in Awka, said Nigerians and indeed those in the Southeast region should use the celebration of Edel Kabir to love and cherish one an­other and also eschew acts capable of igniting hate and disaffections amongst them. The press statement from the Southeast zonal chairman of Mi­yetti Allah Cattle Breeders Asso­ciation of Nigeria reads, “I most heartily share the warm goodwill message of Id el Kabir to the en­tire Muslim Ummah, the Govern­ments and good people of South East Nigeria. “As we know, Id el Kabir is per­formed every year by Muslims all over the world in solemn remem­brance of the sacrifice by prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his only son to Allah. The celebration therefore admonishes all to embrace the life of sacrifice as a way of recogniz­ing the universality of the human family and the essence of accom­modation and tolerance amongst the peoples of the world. “I wish to use this privilege to pray for peaceful coexistence amongst Nigerians. I wish to pray for improved peace and un­derstanding between our host communities in the south east and our herdsmen who are gen­uinely engaged in the business of cattle rearing in the eastern part of Nigeria. “I plead for truthfulness, fair­ness and restraints in information management so as to avoid tenden­cies of unfair blanket criminaliza­tion of any group of people. This is as I maintain that criminals, wher­ever they are identified, should be made to face the full wrath of the laws of the land. The safety of the citizens is the primary commit­ment of Governments; it should be so in our country.” Also, Peter Obi, the Presiden­tial Candidate of the Labour Party, has felicitated with all the Muslim Faithful in Nigeria on the celebra­tion of Eid el Kabir, while urging Nigerians to sustain hope in the nation. In a message made available to the Press, Obi said the Eid el Kabir celebrations reminded Muslims, and indeed Nigerians, of the need to sincerely love one another and pursue lasting peace and unity. He encouraged them to continue to preach peace and unity in the country, as a critical requirement for national growth and develop­ment. Obi said the season also afford­ed Muslim faithful the opportuni­ty to pray, in a special way, for the country which, he said, is passing through very severe challenges. He said the nation needs divine in­tervention to be able to overcome the challenges facing it. “We are at a very dark moment in our nation’s history, where it seems that every noble ideal that makes us a nation is collapsing before our eyes. Insecurity in the country has become unbearable, while our economy continues to struggle under the weight of bad governance and financial mis­management of our leaders. With prayers and hardwork, we shall overcome,” Obi stated. On his part, the Edo State Gov­ernor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has felicitated with Muslims on the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir. The governor in a statement, urged the Muslim faithful to im­bibe the lesson of sacrifice which the Eid-el-Kabir symbolizes. He said, “I felicitate with our Muslim brothers and sisters on the celebration of the Eid-el-Kabir festivities. As we join our Muslim faithful to mark this auspicious celebration, I urge everyone to im­bibe the lesson of sacrifice that it symbolizes. Beyond personal con­victions, we all have a deeper and greater responsibility to God and humanity. “Eid-el-Kabir offers us another opportunity to rededicate our­selves to our beneficent Creator, and reinforces the virtues of pa­tience, tolerance and love.” Similarly, Dr. Kadri Obafemi, Lagos State Deputy governor, has called on Nigerians to choose wise­ly in the coming general election, as the nation needs another lead­er that can move Nigeria forward economically, socially and in all ramifications. He started this on Saturday af­ter the Eid-el-Kabir Prayer held at the Lagos Central Mosque, Lagos Island. “We have a moral responsibility to make sure that we vote the lead­ers that can change the dynamics of our country. “So that we can stop all these violence and we can live in peace and grow the economy of our country so that our children and grandchildren can have a hope a future based on the sustainability of the country. Hamzat also implored Nigeri­ans to live together in peace that nobody gains anything by being violent. “Nobody gains anything by being violent and killing fellow human being. The Holy Quran is very clear, when you kill a soul al­mighty Allah said it is regarded as if you have destroyed a whole city. “We benefit nothing from vio­lence so my message is for all of us to live in peace and understand that what God desires of us is to live in peace and accord ourselves respect irrespective of your reli­gion. “You cannot fight on behalf of God. God can fight his own war, we are too small to fight for God, so let us leave all these issues and let us as citizens, as human being live together in peace and build a better country for ourselves and our children and grandchildren,” he added. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Presidential Candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), who also had his prayers at the mosque, urged Nigerians to ensure they register and get their PVCs ahead of the 2023 general elections.