AWKA – Urban Transport Terminal Ltd, which is in dispute with Anambra State Government over a business deal gone awry has urged Governor Chukwuma Soludo to obey the order of the court by keeping off the property pending the determination of substantive suit. The company according its managing director Chief Chuka Obiora entered into a Private Public Partnership (PPP) to build and manage four motor parks in Onitsha while the government provided the infrastructure. The company according to Obiora developed terminal one located at Upper Iweka which Governor Willie Obiano flagged of to start operation. However,  he continued, after the flag off, government did not maintain its own part of equity which is enforcing or providing all necessary infrastructure to guarantee smooth running of the terminal. On realising this, the company wrote between 70 to 80 letters to the state government drawing its attention to the flaw and got no reply. Surprising, Chief Obiora continued, on the Sunday morning of 31 January 2021 government agents invaded the park, chased away everybody and took over and have been operating it. He lamented that information reaching the company showed that “government agents have sold off all our property,  dismantled all the expensive items  and have sold them and taken possession in a property they owned nothing”. The company therefore dragged the government to court asking for an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the government and its agents from further trespassing on, entry or further removing the company’s properties of any nature whatsoever. POLL In its order of June 6, 2022, the Onitsha High Court presided over by the Hon. Justice Theophine Ugochukwu Oguji ordered that “pending the determination of the substantive case both parties are hereby ordered to maintain status quo ante bellum” and adjourned the case to October 25 for hearing. Chief Obiora, however, hoped that Governor Soludo should obey the court order so as not to jeopardise his lofty developmental ideas he has for Anambra State.