ABUJA – The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) has been tasked to leverage on the 3 million euro grant in the pipeline to produce more skilled workers in Nigeria. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other stakeholders in the labour sector gave this task on Tuesday, during a public hearing session on a bill seeking for amendment of Industrial Training Fund Act, organised by the Senate Committee on Industries. The bill sponsored by ITF and given legislative acceleration by Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali, principally seeks to widen the scope of operations of the Training agency as regards provision of skills training in management for technical and entrepreneurial development in the public and private sectors of the economy. Speaking during the public hearing, the Director General of ITF, Dr Joseph Ari said, “amendments being sought through this bill, will serve to expand the scope of our operations and enhance our activities. “In addition, the amendments are especially imperative now that unemployment in Nigeria has been estimated by the National Bureau of Statistics that Unemployment and Underemployment Report of Q4 2020, to be over 23 million Nigerians despite several surveys indicating the existence of vacancies in several sectors of the national economy that could not be filled because of the lack of requisite skills, which undercores the need for all hands to be on deck to ensure that as many Nigerians as possible are equiped with relevant and contemporary skills. “The amendments are equally pertinent when you consider the recently released 2022 World Population Prospects by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs that projected that Nigeria’s population will hit 216 million by November 2022, and 375 million by 2050. “Therefore, if necessary measures are not put into place by empowering this youth bulge with skills for employability and entrepreneurship, the socio-economic problems that we are currently contending with in the country will conceivably escalate. “An amendment of the Act will enable the Fund to expand its infrastructure to be able to accommodate as many Nigerians as possible that are willing to acquire skills for the national growth and development of the country.” POLL Also speaking, the President of MAN, Engineer Mansur Ahmed, represented by Abuja Laision Officer, Adeyemi Folorunsho, stated the reason why ITF should be empowered through passage of the proposed bill. He noted that in a recent conference on skills and vocational trainings across the countries in Africa, ITF was proposed to be the flagship of such trainings, which are to be facilitated by 3million Euro grants. In their separate presentations, the following organizations supported the amendment bill proposal; Trade Union Congress (TUC), Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Nigeria Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) among others. The Chairman of the Committee, Senator Adetokunbo Abiru (APC Lagos East), in his closing remarks, stressed the importance of the amendments. He said that the amendments being sought in the ITF Act, were very necessary towards making Nigeria move with global trends as far as globally competitive skills trainings are concerned.