…Says Tinubu Has Nothing To Offer ABUJA – Chief Nduese Essien, a two-term member of the National Assembly, has faulted the claim by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, that his presidency would ensure Naira-dollar parity if elected by Nigerians in 2023. Essien, who mocked Tinubu’s deceptive claim, wondered why the APC National Leader has not deployed his magic wand to assist struggling President Mohammadu Buhari to rescue the naira from its current free fall and pulling the nation’s economy from the doldrums. Recall that the All progressives congress made similar promises on the eve of the 2015 general elections and lulled unwary voters into the present predicament. The former Minister of Lands, Housing and Urban Development said Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu made a similar fake promise in 2015 that he would bring the Naira to par with the Dollar, noting that Nigerians have not forgotten. Chief Essien, said the claim by Tinubu is ‘meant for the marines’, as the APC presidential candidate has no magic wand to turn the Naira around to equate in value with the Dollar. According to him “Tinubu made this kind of statement in 2015, when he was campaigning for Muhammadu Buhari, seven years along the line, he couldn’t show the president how to appreciate the Naira, why then should anybody with knowledge of how the global economy works, believe him. “That’s how it started in 2014, leading to the opposition against President Goodluck Jonathan on how the Naira will be at par with the USA Dollar if Buhari is voted to power.” POLL He affirmed that Tinubu’s claim is unrealistic, given the fact that he may likely follow the economic blueprint of President Muhammadu Buhari if voted into the exalted office. Essien, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, and chair of the South-South caucus of the National Assembly from 1999 to 2003, lambasted the present administration for the abysmal depreciation of the Naira from 150 to 610 per Dollar. “Why has Tinubu failed to assist President Buhari in arresting the steady fall of the Naira against other international currencies but waiting until he becomes President in 2023 before he miraculously intervened. “International currencies are not manipulated the way Bola Tinubu surreptitiously took the Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited Headquarters to Lagos away from its area of operations to the detriment of the Oil Producing Areas and has continued to sustain its maintenance there despite all the protestations from the rest of the country and in keeping with international best practice. “Tinubu cannot be trusted because as the leader of the All Progressive Congress, the party has failed the country in all its campaign promises, he has nothing new to offer the nation.” Chief Essien however called on Nigerians of voting age to make use of the extension given by the Independent National Electoral Commission on registration to get their Permanent Voter Card ,PVC, so as to vote in their preferred candidates in the forthcoming polls.