LAGOS – Nigeria’s former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (Waziri Adamawa), will on Thursday, lead eminent Nigerians to the Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos, for the launch and public presentation of the book: “Nigeria Drivers of Digital Prosperity, The Trajectories of The Digital Evolution, Sector Analysis and Players’ Contributions,” authored by Aaron Ukodie, Nigeria’s pioneer ICT and Technology journalist. The 472-page page hardcover book, printed in glossy colours, is an experiential chronicle of Nigeria’s sojourn through the backwaters of IT and Telecoms to the revolution, which inspires the present global reference of its institutions, corporate entities/brands, and the individual skill sets. Other high-profile techies expected to grace the occasion, among others, include Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, Secretary to the Akwa Ibom State Government and a former President of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), who has been a dogged advocate of ubiquitous broadband connectivity across the length and breadth of Nigeria. The book’s public presentation will be preceded by the eWorld Forum 2022 themed: “4G, 5G Broadband connectivity and the Economy.” The paper presentation session by the current Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, would be chaired by Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, Chairman MTN Nigeria, who was the EVC/CEO of NCC when Nigeria recorded the landmark success with the award of the GSM licenses. Lagos State Commissioner of Science and Technology, Hakeem Fahn, and Muhammed Rudman have also been confirmed to speak at the event. Several corporate bodies, among them NCC, MTN Nigeria, ixPN, Nira, 9Mobile, MainOne, and ALTON have also lined up to support the book launch and the forum. The veteran journalists also gave incisive details of how and why it took Nigeria about a decade to successfully issue globally benchmark GSM licenses. -Advertisement- POLL Details of the interests of the late military Head of State, General Sani Abacha, and the connections of the Chagouri Family were also lucidly narrated in the new book. Also profiled in the book are the contributions of the celebrated and unsung Nigerians and corporate entities who sacrificed sweat and blood to endure the uncharted pathways to Nigeria’s noble contributions to the national and global IT, Telecoms and computing ecospheres. The role of the Surulere, the sprawling Lagos Mainland community in computerised Nigeria, is also revisited in the new book. The book, the first of its kind to articulate Nigeria’s roadmap from the pre-independence analogue era to the present-day digital connectivity, will be useful not only to industry enthusiasts, scholars, academia, researchers, and students; avid readers will also find it very interesting as a worthy collection.