The Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has called on the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and other separatist groups in the South East to reconsider their stand on sit-at-home-order in the interest of peace and economic wellbeing of the region. He also urged the church, particularly clergymen, to be more sincere and fervent in seeking the face of God concerning the security, economic and political woes currently bedevilling the country. Ewhrudjakpo, who made the call while granting audience to a delegation from the Trinity Theological College, Umuahia, Abia State, in Government House, Yenagoa, pointed out that the sit-at-home order and other measures being employed by the various non-state actors had caused colossal damage to the South East economy and the country in general. Expressing displeasure over the pains the situation is inflicting on ordinary citizens, especially in the South East, Ewhrudjakpo appealed to all good-spirited leaders across the country and beyond to come together and proffer solutions to the crisis. He said God still answers prayers and uses people in addressing problems that ordinarily seem beyond human comprehension and solution. The deputy governor, therefore, stressed the need for the church to always stand in the gap in prayers for the world and its leaders, particularly in troubled regions where war, turmoil and terrorism are holding sway. He said, “Unfortunately, what is happening in the South East, we think it is only affecting the people of that region. No, it is gradually affecting the whole country indirectly. “When you shut down three states’ economy every Monday consecutively, you are not helping the society. So, those behind it should reconsider their position. What do you actually gain by inflicting pain on your own people? POLL “So, we really want to task you because there is nothing that is impossible with God. Anything God cannot do is not on earth. That is why the things God has done in the past and things that He is yet to do, are very many.” While thanking the delegation, which mainly consisted of students of the college for the visit, Ewhrudjakpo enjoined them to take their training seriously, stressing that a lot of spiritual and intellectual discipline is always required for one to become a thoroughbred orthodox priest. He reiterated his appeal to gospel preachers not to emphasize prosperity to the detriment of the salvation of man in their messages, adding that the pulpit should be used to promote morality in the best interest of God and society. Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary of the Trinity Theological College, Umuahia, Rev. Chukwuka Ekejiuba, said the college was established in 1974 solely for the training of Anglican priests but it is now open to other denominations for learning purposes. He expressed gratitude to the Bayelsa deputy governor for his open door policy and kind disposition towards them, and equally solicited the state government’s support to enable the college to rehabilitate its dilapidated infrastructure as well as equip the information technology unit.