LAGOS – The organisers of Uncut Learning, a programme which has since 2017 empowered bakers with skills and tools to venture into the baking business, have announced the schedule of activities for the upcoming 2022 empowerment programme.  The Managing Director/ CEO, Dewdrops Cakes Limited and Convener of Dewdrops Uncut Learning, Mrs Ezinne Okwonkwo, while addressing the media, explained that the 3rd edition would kickstart on the 5th and will run till the 7th of September 2022 at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. While unveiling the theme of the third edition, Okonkwo explained that the emergence of COVID-19 made them see the need to rebrand and innovate and which gave birth to the theme The Craft Revamp. The convener further revealed that the third edition would not only involve training sections with A-list bakers such as Yolanda Gampp from Toronto, Canada and top Nigerian bakers in London but will also feature the introduction of two things which will boost the morale of bakers in Nigeria and outside Nigeria. POLL “We are giving out grants to 5 widowed bakers. We are giving out the sum of 500 thousand naira each to them all thanks to some of our sponsors who have identified with us. Over the past years, we have seen the face of the Nigerian cake industry improve, people have improved their craft all thanks to some individuals who have sacrificed their time and God-given talent to nurture people. “That gave rise to the introduction of the very first award which is called ‘The Dewdrops Uncut Learning best tutor/ learning experience which cuts across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria”. She explained. Also speaking at the Uncut Learning press conference, Managing Director of Dripplescakes, Port-Harcourt and team member of the Dewdrops Uncut Learning, Tareela Okene added that the event gives the opportunity to network, learn and relearn, collaborate with other bakers who you might have met online.“Both suppliers, distributors and buyers are allowed so in your location you might find it hard to get a particular product but when you get to the event you buy, network without having to pay a delivery fee”. Mrs Onome Nwonu of Cakes ‘R’ Us, therefore urges bakers to seize this opportunity, as registration is still ongoing, to meet and learn from top bakers whom they couldn’t afford their classes or get to them due to distance. “Just like the name implies ‘uncut’ the coaches come out to give the best that they have, there is no hidden lecture on that day” she added. Mrs Ezinne now solicits support from the government, well-meaning Nigerians, and corporate organizations to partner with Dewdrops Uncut Learning program to empower more bakers in Nigeria.“We solicit support from organizations who may not necessarily be related to cake but guess what, at every celebration, there is a cake. And every celebration without a cake is a meeting”.