Ariston, one of the worldwide leaders in the thermal comfort industry, has restated its commitment to providing sustainable comfort for its customers by making available quality and energy-efficient products or solutions. Richmond Aguiar, the Director, Central Africa, Ariston Group, stated this during the recent Country Manager forum with the media Aguiar noted that the company has consistently invested in research and development, leading to multiple advanced products with unique offerings. According to him, each product features heat pumps for heating and solar efficient hybrid systems tailored to customer needs. He disclosed that the Ariston range of products comes in water heating or heating form, including hybrid, powerflex and demand-response. He stated that the products are designed to make users enjoy complete comfort and ease in their daily life. “We want everyone to feel comfortable and at ease in their daily life. To make this possible, we help families, and our professional partners find the best solution straightforwardly”, he said. He further explained that the company boasts of requisite expertise that can deliver after-sale services in Nigeria of the highest professional standards, guaranteeing customers built-to-last high-performance solutions. He explained that the company’s range of products is designed to improve people’s serenity and quality of life and help them make more responsible choices. -Advertisement- POLL “At Ariston, we strive to anticipate proactively emerging customer needs by making state-of-the-art heating and hot water solutions accessible to all”, he said. Mr. Habeeb Somoye, the Head of Marketing, Ariston Group, also speaking, noted that the company takes pride in its ability to deliver quality and reliable products and solutions. “We firmly believe in the dependability of our products and solutions. This comes from our commitment to use the best components and materials available and to certify the quality of each product through checks and tests completed before, during and after production.”