AWKA  – A governorship aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 election in Abia State, Ndubuisi Etugo Ogah has headed to court to prove that existing zoning arrangements known as Abia Charter of Equity disqualified Professor Uche Ikonne from representing the party in the said election. Brandishing documents signed by Abia forefathers dating back to the era of Dr. M. I. Okpara, Ogah said by virtue of Ikonne hailing from Abia Central, he is not qualified to breach the Charter and contest in the election. He argued that “The Abia State chapter of the PDP cannot be allowed to breach the agreement on zoning by picking Professor Uche Ikonne from Abia Central Senatorial District for the 2023 governorship election in the State at a time when the agreement of zoning known and called Abia Charter of Equity duly signed by the founding fathers of Abia State led by late Governor of old Eastern Region Dr M.I Okpara favours Abia North Senatorial District to produce the governor”. Etugo who spoke to journalists in Awka said he obtained a copy of the Abia Charter of Equity from the archives and explained that the position of the founding fathers on zoning of political positions both elective and appointive is categorically clear. He noted that he has gone to court to stop PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from fielding Professor Ikonne from Abia Central as governorship candidate of PDP in 2023 governorship election because of the fact that it is the turn of Abia North, following the agreement of zoning according to the Abia Charter of Equity. He pointed at some  paragraphs of the Charter of Equity signed by representatives of the Senatorial Districts and other stakeholders which read: “The people of Abia State believe in, recognize and accept the cardinal principle of equity of all Senatorial zones and all its people. The Charter of Equity is intended to allay the fears of domination of one Senatorial District over the other “This agreement of good faith or declaration of principle shall be known as Charter of Equity and shall be binding on all persons of Abia State who may hold public offices especially elective or major appointive offices in the running of government affairs in so far as the provision of this Charter of Equity are not in violation of the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria”. The document was signed by Dr. MI Okpara, Mr. BA Nwachukwu, Hon MAO Agbara, JN Ogbonna and many others. According to him “the picture of zoning going into the 2023 election is clear that it is the turn of Abia North because Abia North took it in 1999 to 2007 and left it for Abia Central from 2007 to 2015. The Central left it for Abia South from 2015 to 2023 so it has to restart from Abia North. POLL “That is, they did it in Anambra, Enugu and Ebonyi so why should Abia State case be different”, he insisted.