LAGOS  – The president and chairman of council, Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi, has elicited the attention of the Federal Government to myriads of challenges facing organised businesses in Nigeria, adding that most of the challenges have remained unresolved by successive governments. Unarguably buttressing his comments which are contained in his address at the 65th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of NECA in Lagos Adeniyi said: “Some of these issues include increasing debt profile of the nation, unsustainable subsidy regime, lack of Forex for productive activities, insecurity (which is fast becoming a more lucrative industry for the perpetrators); infrastructural deficit, inhospitable business environment, policy inconsistency and many contradictions in the fiscal and monetary policies of government. “In fact, they are threatening to wipe out the marginal gains made across other sectors. “As regard the indices that are troubling the economy, he said Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is in a paradoxical situation where growth prospects have improved, but the overall macroeconomic framework is deteriorating. He explained that persistent vandalism and illegal refineries are partly responsible for the declining contribution of the oil sector to the economy, adding that the electricity sector on its own contracted by 11.2% partly due to the frequency of collapse of the transmission network in the period under review. He emphasised that for the Nigerian economy to have high and sustainable growth, the non-oil sector’s growth need to be sustained to compensate for the contraction in the oil sector. “Also, the country’s electricity generation and distribution need to be improved. The unreliable electricity situation partly contributes to the high cost of doing business and indirectly hinders growth”, he said. The NECA boss said while the sector admitted that some of the challenges facing organised businesses were beyond the control of the government and enterprises, in many cases, he insisted that the challenges were aggravated by the insensitivity of regulatory agencies of governments at various levels. POLL NECA’s leadership restated recommendations made to the government over the past years, stating that implementing the recommendations would assist the government in enunciating programmes and policies that would galvanise accelerated development. On infrastructural development, Adeniyi argued that much had not been achieved, following the signing of Executive Order 07, which aimed at fostering a partnership between the private sector and government, and advised that more focus should be given to other critical infrastructures that will promote the real sector.