LAGOS  – The Executive Producer of The Next Titan reality television show, Mide Akinlaja, has said that the objective of the show is to inspire the next generation of young Nigerian entrepreneurs, who will create companies and organizations that will positively change the Nigerian economic landscape. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, he said that reality television shows are designed to provoke the entrepreneurial spirit of young Nigerians. He stated that aside from the entertainment aspect of the 10-week competition, its importance lies in igniting entrepreneurial spirit and showcasing the possibility of entrepreneurship in transforming lives with just an idea that can be scaled to greatness with a market and with Nigeria’s population. He disclosed that this is the ninth season of the show and has the theme “The game-changer”. According to Akinlaja, the show, “by scouting for young talented people who have entrepreneurial acumen, grooming them through rigorous tasks, boardroom process, mentorship, and eventually funding a winner’s idea leading to an opportunity to create jobs for themselves and others is a big contributor to the socio-economic development of the country.” He posited that apart from the success stories of the previous winners of the show, which are inspiring, The Next Titan being on national television has also positively impacted on the generality of other young people, who are the viewers who have shared their testimonies regarding the programme causing a great shift in their mindset to moving from jobs seekers to job providers and creators. The Executive Producer of the show revealed that his organisation has already received thousands of entries from young aspiring entrepreneurs across Nigeria, adding that the ninth season will give young and ambitious entrepreneurs another opportunity to showcase their business ideas and battle with one another for a grand prize of N20 million. He said that the runner-up will go home with N5 million. He stated that the process will start with the contestants pitching their business ideas through auditions in four major cities in Nigeria which are Abuja, Port Harcourt, Enugu, and Lagos. POLL He added that those who are not able to attend the physical auditions will also be given the opportunity to audition online. Akinlaja said that the top 50 contestants will be selected to attend what he described as the “Top 50 Boot Camp” before the 18 final contestants with brightest ideas will be shortlisted to live together in the Titan House and compete by carrying out weekly business tasks and challenges around the city of Lagos for 10 weeks on television, and with weekly evictions during eviction shows in the Titan Boardroom. He said the previous eight seasons produced winners are doing great in their businesses, adding that all the previous winners of The Next Titan are now employers of labour, as they have launched their respective businesses, which cut across different sectors, and have created jobs for other young people. He added that most of the participants who did not win have converted the lessons they learned on the show into sustainable businesses. He disclosed that a number of previous winners and participants have won Forbes Under-30 Entrepreneurs in Africa awards at different times while some have received nominations. Akinlaja said auditions will begin in August in Port Harcourt, move to Abuja, Enugu, and Lagos, before other pre-show activities such as Top 50 Boot Camp; and premiere gala where the top contestants 18 will be unveiled. He said the reality show is “aimed at practically engineering entrepreneurship among Nigerian youths through identifying the best business minds and supporting their entrepreneurial acumen through logistical assistance, informal training, knowledge and other requisite services needed to propel them into successful personalities. He stated that the show not only celebrates some of the nation’s best entrepreneurial ideas, but also makes an attempt to provide a launch-pad to the most deserving of Nigeria’s budding entrepreneurs where people with ideas will dare to bid and fight for their dreams.