The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) suspended its activities in Nigeria in 2014 based on an audit report it carried out in the country our its funding activities. Known for lack of transparency in the administration of donor funds, some private sector, and foreign donors are focusing attention on how donation for the COVID-19 intervention was administered just as there’s a new wave of the virus resurgence in the country. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, CHIOMA UMEHA and TOMI FALADE There was panic among the Nigerian public when reports tumbled in over the resurgence of COVID-19 when many had let their guards down. As of Friday, July 22, 2022, Nigeria’s Coronavirus Cases stood at 259,720. Countries, including Nigeria, have adopted several public health measures, based on the World Health Organisation recommendations, to control the spread of COVID-19. The measures included individual practices, such as regular hand washing, wearing of face masks in public places, and physical/social distancing. Ahead of the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC) issued a public health advisory given the recent increase in COVID-19 cases in Nigeria and globally. Dr. Ifedayo Adetifa, Director General, NCDC, in a statement, noted that the public health advisory was issued following the need for religious organisations, community leaders and Nigerians to guard against infection risk. Countries including Nigeria, according to the report have also instituted public health measures, such as widespread testing, isolation of patients, contact tracing, and quarantine. According to the latest situation report from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the number of weekly COVID-19 cases has increased globally for the third consecutive week. POLL The statement further reads, “Similarly, our national surveillance system has detected a gradual increase in the daily COVID-19 cases recorded in the country. “ Although confirmed cases increased from 267 to 445 between weeks 21 to 24, hospitalisation and fatalities have remained low suggesting these are mostly mild to moderate cases or we are in the lag phase before we see the accompanying increase in severe disease and hospitalisation. Since Nigeria’s first case was detected on 27th February 2020, we have had 256,695 confirmed cases with 3,144 deaths across 36 states and the FCT.” Genomic surveillance confirms Omicron and its various offspring (sub lineages) remain the dominant circulating variant of concern associated with the spread of the disease in the country. Dr. Adejomo Olusuola, a Consultant Public Health Physician explained to Saturday INDEPENDENT the reason for the recent resurgence, stating that COVID-19 mutates. “So with each change, they might become something else that means a new skin, as we normally call it. So when you have a circulating virus within a population and over a course of time, it changes, it tends to have some kind of spike because some of the individuals or persons within that community are like a string to that virus, it is like something you have managed to curtail within your system. “The immune system of the body recognises it as a new thing happening. And I think that might be responsible, but before we can attest to that fact, we have to do genetic typing of those people that have just been identified, we have to take some samples from them and genetic type to be able to know if this string is different from what we are saying, that could be responsible,” he said. Dr Joseph Madu, National Chairman, Clinical Pharmacists Association of Nigeria (CPAN) shares similar views. He said, “On the current spike in infection, it should be attributable to the pattern in disease outbreaks. What it shows is that the condition is still very much around, and since a lot of people have lowered their guards, hence a spike once again in infection rates. You will agree with me that there is a drop in restrictions on social and physical distancing among the populace. “People hardly wear facemasks in public places and gatherings these days. I want to believe that most people are also no longer employing non-pharmaceutical measures such as regular hand washing and the use of hand sanitisers, neither are such measures strictly enforced by the government. All of the above can possibly be responsible for the spike in infection rates in Nigeria,” he added. Ironically some medical experts are beginning to see COVID-19 as another medical burden that has come to stay like malaria, HIV, tuberculosis amongst others. Dr. Made holds such a view too. “I think the earlier we see it that way, the better, that is my own opinion. And over time, as we begin to intensify our effort to battle it we may eradicate it, just like some other diseases have been eradicated in the past, such as smallpox. I think it is one of those diseases that have entered the medical books. So we should prepare for a long run in terms if we want to battle COVID-19.” The virus also came with its financial burden and for Nigeria, a basket fund was set up by the United Nations system in collaboration with the federal government to mobilise resources and strengthen the COVID-19 response, according to the 2020 World Bank report. The basket fund supports the rapid implementation of the country’s National COVID-19 Multisectoral Pandemic Response Plan. The United Nations also mobilised US$61.3 million into the basket fund as of June 20, 2020, while donations were made by other multilateral and bilateral donors as well as private donors, foundations, and philanthropists (CACOVID, 2020). Profiteering From COVID-19 Test Accountability, when it comes to donor funds has always been a challenge to successive Nigerian government and COVID-19 funds are no different. As a result, it has been opened for abuse and profiteering. At the point when international travel resumed, travellers were mandated to take multiple tests before leaving and upon re-entry to ensure they remain virus free. After vaccinations became commonplace, the testing procedures remained in place for a while. An average traveller going out of the country and returning to the country within the space of 10 days would need at least four tests to show he or she is COVID-free asides quarantining for a number of days. All these were very necessary because of the nature of the pandemic and how quickly it hit. These extra test expenses, while it didn’t bode well for travellers had COVID testing centres that popped up all around Nigeria smiling to the bank. Before January 2022, the fee charged by accredited private laboratories for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test ranged between N50,000 to N52,000. Lagos State, in the latter days of January 2022, reviewed the PCR fee regime from N45,250 instead of the existing fee of N50,400. At this time, travellers were still expected to carry out a pre-boarding COVID-19 PCR test and a Post-arrival PCR test or Rapid Antigen Test upon arrival in Nigeria. This is aside from other tests done days before and confirmatory tests are done after the trip. “On average, I was spending N300,000 on COVID testing every trip I made in and out of Nigeria,” Engineer Teni Ajayi told Saturday INDEPENDENT during the week. These go on even when those tests are no longer mandatory as popular countries like the UK do not require them once a traveller is vaccinated. “Unvaccinated and partially vaccinated passengers are required to take a COVID-19 PCR test 48hrs before departure and conduct days 2 and 7 post-arrival PCR tests. Such passengers will be expected to pay for their PCR tests through the NITP. Children below the age of 18 years will be accorded the same privileges as persons who are fully vaccinated,” Ajayi stated. Speaking with a number of health-based NGOs, many of whom declined to comment, Saturday INDEPENDENT gathered that it is a general belief that the COVID-19 pandemic presented an opportunity for the Nigerian health system to harness the potential available in the private sector to augment the capacity within the public health system. Between the three NGOs who refused to be named, the position is that any such profit from testing should be diverted back into the health sector and shore up the country’s defences against a future pandemic or health crisis. In as much as the expenses of the funding of COVID-19 are not made public and the officials in charge would not want to speak, Bolaji S. Aregbeshola and Morenike O. Folayan in a report–Nigeria’s Financing of Health Care During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Challenges and Recommendations, said Nigeria projected that it would need US$330 million to control its COVID-19 pandemic, but raised more than US$560.52 million, of which more than 90% came from the private sector and the donor/philanthropist community. They said the pooled COVID-19 fund was mainly being expended on temporary public health and clinical care measures, with little invested to strengthen the health system beyond the pandemic. “The poor turn-around time for COVID-19 test results and the stigma associated with the disease results in most persons with mild to moderate symptoms seeking care from alternatives to the healthcare institutions designated for COVID-19 health care. “The huge out-of-pocket expenses and the inability of most Nigerians to earn money because of measures instituted to contain the pandemic will likely cause many Nigerians to become economically impoverished by the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19-related commodity procurement was least responsive to the needs of those most in need of care and support. The government needs to institute several fiscal policies. Immediate response to ease the financial impact of COVID-19 requires the inclusion of COVID-19 management in health insurance packages and an increase in domestic government health spending. “The current use of community pharmacies for COVID-19 vaccine in Nigeria is highly commendable of the Federal Government of Nigeria.”