*Insists Nothing Untoward Should Happen To Ortom MAKURDI – A group under the aegis of Forum of Concerned Nigerians (FCN) has warned the Federal Government to ensure that nothing untoward happens to the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. While it also warned the FG that anyone that harms the governor would answer to over 200 million Nigerians, the group noted that any attempt at silencing the Governor would be stiffly resisted. The group which disclosed this at a press conference held in Makurdi, the Benue state capital on Monday, called on world powers to intervene in the worsening state of insecurity, adding that the best point to start was to establish a Special Envoy on Nigeria. Spokesman for the group, Peter Shande who read the address, raised the concerns following the alarm raised by Governor Ortom concerning his safety as well as the rising state of insecurity in the country. The group also cited dates and instances that Governor Ortom had come under a heavy wave of sponsored blackmail and victimization from the FG and “its agents”, citing instances where Ortom has been severely subjected to media attacks and other forms of threats including attempts to eliminate him. In the address, the group explained that “Governor Ortom is one Nigerian who has chosen to be the voice of the voiceless, so any attempt at silencing him will mean an attempt to silence over 200 million helpless Nigerians, and such an attempt will be stoutly resisted. “In view of the above catalogue of threats, attacks and other negative things thrown at Governor Samuel Ortom, we find the alarm concerning his safety very timely, compelling and urgent. POLL “We therefore urge the international community not to treat the Governor’s call with levity. Nigeria is too important in the African continent and comity of nations to be allowed to become a failed state simply because a sitting President wants it to be destroyed. “We expect the United States, the United Kingdom and other world powers to intervene in the security situation in Nigeria without further delay; establishing a Special Envoy on Nigeria will be a good place to begin.” FCN also stressed that “We will not fail to warn the Presidency that we are watching keenly, and nothing must happen to Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. The Governor represents the suffering and marginalized people of this country who are being slaughtered like animals by terrorists almost daily. “We must state here categorically that anyone who touches Ortom should be prepared to contend with over 200 million people of this country. “We have carefully watched the Buhari administration and its agents serially use the media to threaten and vilify the person and office of the Benue State Governor. This is unacceptable. “What is Ortom’s offence? Is it a crime to choose to stand with one’s people in the face of brazen injustice, oppression and impunity? Since 2017, Governor Ortom has come under a heavy wave of sponsored blackmail and victimization from the Federal Government and its willing agents. “Nigeria is in a coma and anyone who is pretending about it is living in self denial. The government of President Muhammadu Buhari has failed the people of the country and his administration is clearly complicit in the spate of violence across the country and the killing of innocent people”, the group reiterated.