World Health Organisation (WHO) in collaboration with the Edo State government will be engaging more with relevant stakeholders to improve the uptake of COVID- 19 vaccines in the state. This was the core of the State Social Mobilization and Crisis Communication Meeting for stakeholders held in Benin at the weekend Mrs Nora Eyo, Edo Coordinator of the World Health Organization (WHO), said cases of COVID-19 and Monkey Pox were real in the state, noting that the government wanted everyone to be protected. “All stakeholders should go back to their various groups and sensitize them on COVID-19 vaccination since we have more cases coming up. ‘At a time, the state was recording zero cases, but with recent cases in the state, we want to ensure that people get vaccinated,’’ she said. In her remarks, Edo Health Education Officer, Edo State Primary Health Care Development Agency (EDSPHCDA), Mrs Irene Uabor, said the meeting was to engage stakeholders on how to mobilize more people to be vaccinated. ”The vaccine uptake in the state is quite low when compared to other states. ‘We are having new cases and advising people to take the vaccine as well as the complete dose for optimal protection. POLL ‘The vaccines are available at the Primary health care Centres and strategic locations in the state,’’ she said. Also, Dr Pius Onomigwe, Rep, Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, said about 23 new COVID-19 cases had been recorded in Edo in the last two weeks. According to Onomigwe, the massage is very clear, COVID-19 is still around and we have been recording new cases. He added that sensitization of different communities on monkeypox was also ongoing, noting that no fewer than two cases of the disease had been confirmed in the state in the last two weeks. Earlier, Dr Otaniyenuwa Obarisiagbon, Executive Secretary, EDSPHCDA, urged the stakeholders to take the message from the meeting to the communities. She said that their role was very important in the uptake and completion of the COVID-19 vaccine in the state. Represented by Dr Ehijele Aimua, she added that the state government was doing a lot to ensure health for all Edo residents.