ABUJA – The House of Repre­sentatives has assured Nigerians that its in­vestigation of the util­isation of trillions of Naira so far spent on fuel subsidy from 2017 to 2021 will be thoroughly and conclusively done with its outcome heard towards bene­fiting Nigerians. The spokesman of the House, Hon. Benjamin Kalu and the Chairman of the Ad­hoc Committee for the subsidy probe, Hon. Almustapha Ibra­him Aliyu stated this at a joint media briefing in Abuja on Thursday, saying that the rea­son for narrowing the probe down to specific was to ensure that no stone is left unturned in search of transparency and accountability in the subsidy regime. This was even as the House Spokesman assured that the House will make sure that it prioritises legislation that have sociological impacts on the people, particularly on the youth as it begins its final leg­islative session. Reacting to the subsidy probe, Hon. Aliyu, who’s from Sokoto State said “I am sure the issue of subsidy is not a new thing to Nigerians particularly you the members of the press. It is an issue that concerns all of us. It concerns the economy of our beloved country Nigeria and this time around because I don’t want to pre-empt the findings of the committee but actually there are issues that we are concerned about. “The PMS you buy at N165 but try and check the global market, even the neighbouring countries, how much are they selling a litre of PMS, then you will understand the country subsidises that price for you to be able to afford to buy and make life easier. So within this, a lot now comes in. The direct sale direct purchase. You give the crude oil in exchange of the refined products. What litres of crude oil do we give in ex­change of what litre of refined products? How many litres of refined petroleum products are imported daily and how many are utilised? “Our concern is now we have a committee that is try­ing to check the actual rate of consumption. So now we do the maths and interrelate. There would actually be syn­ergy between this committee and the actual amount of fuel consumed daily and that is why we want to know how much Nigerian government is paying or sacrificing for the convenience of the fellow citi­zens. So these are some of the issues this committee would hinge on and work towards changing the status quo,” the Chairman said. Also adding to what his col­league had said, Kalu, who’s also a member of the subsidy probe panel stressed that ef­forts will be tailored towards finding answers to pending questions on the lips of Nige­rians regarding subsidy on petrol in the country. “You have heard from the horse’s mouth. He will be chairing this all-important committee that Nigerians have been waiting for in the sense that there has been a lot of questions as to what is our consumption rate? How much have we spent on subsidy? Is subsidy coming back? Will it help us to augment the gap created in the supply sector of gas and oil? So those ques­tions would be addressed by that committee. Because the membership of that commit­tee was selected from across board. Different committees of the House that has to do with oil and gas and also the leadership of the House. -Advertisement- POLL Some of us are members of that committee and we would be giving you feedback from time to time and on behalf of the chairman,” Kalu said. On the assurances that bills would be prioritised based on their sociological importance, particularly the Bill seeking to establish the Entrepreneur­ship Bank of Nigeria which he is sponsoring, Kalu stated: “The House would prioritise on some of these bills because of their urgent need. Like I said there is a sociological value in that bill because it will take so much youths from the streets and advance without so much requirement like normal banks. “Funds that would help them build capacity in their innovations or businesses or any area of their pursuit. Yes, we would fight for it to be one of the legacies Mr President would leave behind. Same way he started with the Not Too Young Bill. You are aware that if you give a man the free­dom to contest election and you don’t give him enough pocket to present himself, it would be difficult for him to enjoy that Not Too Young to Run,” he said.