Prince Adewole Adebayo is renowned as a successful lawyer and businessman. In this interview, the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the forthcoming 2023 election spoke on why religion or region should not be a basis for measuring performance and why he believes that Nigerians need to check the records of all candidates in the coming elections to get a better perspective of who they want to vote for. With talks of balancing religions becoming popular in political parties, do you consider your faith a disadvantage to your presidential elections? The person who questions my faith the most is me. This is because I know the precept of what it takes to be a Christian. As Christians and Muslims, it is our work, in terms of what we do in private and public life in service that should speak for us. We should not use religion to claim employment or votes. Religion should be used as moral guidance. A former president of the United States said the presidency is a lonely place that sometimes your last recourse is to be on your knees. Do you think that is why President Buhari recently said that he is eager to leave office? We saw it before you guys saw it. You are yet to unveil your Vice Presidential candidate, is it because of his faith? The faith of my Vice Presidential candidate isn’t the reason he is yet to be unveiled. Let me tell you how the SDP behaves and our perspective. We do not question people’s religion, but we are sensitive to the country, because we are a diverse community, so you have no shortage of good people, men and women, and different faiths. In SDP, we believe that Nigeria is not only about Muslims and Christians, we also recognise other faiths. We respect everybody’s sensitivity, identity, and beliefs and it is our hope that one day we would not push this argument to a ridiculous point where people will begin to ask are you the only two people here. I am happy to be a Christain because it is a religion I have serious faith in, and I grew up in an environment where half of my cousins are Muslims, so it is not an issue for us. As a lawyer, both here in Nigeria, America, and other places, I have confronted very good Muslims and very good Christians. And I have prosecuted very terrible Muslims and very terrible Christians. My message to Nigerians on this issue is that we can raise this argument only for one reason, to judge the ability of that person who is going to hold the public office to have a sense of sensitivity, because that’s the only reason with which you can judge him. The first duty of a person who wants to be president is the choice of the vice presidential candidate. It brings us back to the question I asked you earlier, who is your vice presidential candidate, and what is his faith? POLL We would announce that when the time is right. Why does it seems like you are evading the question? The fact is that my party must be there when the announcement is made. What I want you to understand is that since we came into civil rule in 1999, Christians have ruled, and Muslims have ruled. In fact, both have ruined us. So, we should not use religion as a major criterion. All the evils that have been done in the last eight years were done by a nominal Christian, that government didn’t look like a government ruled by Christian, but history will judge that. Next was Yar’Adua who did a bit. Then we have the last seven years being ruled by a practising Muslim. This is not how I know Muslims to behave. This government doesn’t look to me like a government under a good Muslim. Same with the first person ruling us then, a Christian, who even had a Chapel inside the villa, but I can tell you, that is not a good standard of a Christian, because when the righteous rule, the people rejoice, we have not rejoiced since 1999. Maybe 10 per cent,15 per cent parameters of choosing our leaders to show whether this person has the broad based sensitivity to a diverse environment like ours .What is your take on religious fixation in politics? In politics, whatever argument you want, it’s available in abundance. What politicians do is first locate their interest,  when the argument is found, it then helps their aim, but when you are working for the people as I am doing, I don’t have permanent interest other than good governance, making sure we have an accountable government, and as Black people, Nigeria should not be the headquarters of shame in the world. I always ask myself, why we are concerned about the politics of region? I see that the fear could be because of marginalisation. Secondly, people have been wrongly educated or I should say miseducated into believing the presidency is a reward. It is a very difficult job. You could see president Buhari complaining the other day. It is not about the honorific aspect of it, that is waving at children, going to Eagle Square, and watching the army march past,  that is just one per cent of the job. It’s a very difficult job because he is carrying the burden of millions of people. So, if it’s about service, people won’t be too concerned about who is there, whether he is from my place,  they would think more of the deliverables. So, it is my mission in politics to interact with people who have this kind of primordial perspective to say, yes it is important for identity’s sake, we have tried and president Buhari has been in power for the past seven years, I am from Ondo kingdom, we have had a better time than people from Katsina. As a presidential candidate, what exactly are you offering Nigerians, what is being done wrong that you want to make right? What we are doing wrong is that we don’t have a government. We are having incumbents who spend four years and go and are replaced by their friends. They don’t do governmental functions. Just like when you go to your home town and the local government chairman there is not relevant to you, a counsellor in your street is not relevant to you, because your amenities within the environment isn’t working, and when you talk to the counsellor or the Chairman, they say they don’t have money or say the governor has taken the money, these are the ones you could see with your naked eyes, so with that, you know that the local government had collapsed. Let me tell you, the federal government too has collapsed in Nigeria. But because the federal government is hiding inside the villa, they blow siren and a lot of noise when they are passing, you think they are busy, it’s a lie, they are not busy. What I want to bring along is to replace these bunch of politicians who are going to the villa to collect campaign rewards with a functioning government. What does that mean? A functioning government, first of all, will secure the people. And the parameter of keeping your job, whether you are Chief Of Army, Chief Of Airforce, Chief Of Navy, Head of Police, or Head of DSS, is that the first thing you are told is that if a single Nigerian is missing and unaccounted for, remember what IBB said to Etim Inyang, then Inspector General of Police, my friend where is Anini, because they were looking for Anini, they armed robber at that time. They were going to the council meeting when he saw him and asked him where is the armed robber. That is what you will say to your Inspector General. Let’s say that you are the president of Nigeria and Kuje Correctional Facility was attacked, what would you do differently? Kuje Correctional Facility would not have been attacked if I were president. The first thing a government does is to have intelligence. Secondly,  is to have the ability to process intelligence. What they are doing is that they are not spending our time on governance. They are doing all sorts of things in the villa. They are even holding weddings in the villa now. They don’t have time to pursue intelligence, or process intelligence because their recruitment is faulty. They are not even complying with the Terrorism act 2011. When I was overseas, people were giving me intelligence. Why is it that they appear to care less about the problems?. Because everything to them is an opportunity to make more money. Would you tinker with the security architecture if you were the President? When you elect me, you have made the greatest change because you have elected a Commander-In-Chief. With utmost respect, President Buhari isn’t doing two per cent of the job of a Commander-In-Chief. How do you mean, remember that he is a former general You know in this country, we don’t examine records very well, we examine titles. When you examine records very well, you will know that what is happening now was bound to happen. His party men said he is not the one to go to the field, he only gives the order He doesn’t give the order because he is not aware. If you read his lamentations on Twitter, that’s a confessional statement of an absent-minded Commander-In-Chief. The problem is that you voted for someone who has no feet at all. So you can’t put him on his feet. We are even trying to put him on his back, facing up. You have to respect the office, and at the same time, you have to say the truth. I can just sympathise with him that he has some months to go. But we need to be alive while he still there. But the problem you need to face is that the same deafness which the electorate had in 2015 is about to happen again. Let us be clear about what the president is. The president isn’t judged by his religion or the amount of money he can share around, or how many people are endorsing him. You judge him by his ability to do three functions. He must be able to be a Commander-In-Chief and keep you safe. You are seeing the example of lack of it now. He must be Head of State, father of all. He must not put in the mind of anybody, however, minute the size is, however diverse and status is that this country doesn’t want them. Thirdly, he must be an effective Chief Executive. Nigeria has a revenue problem, how do you intend to fix that? Quite simple, Nigeria has honesty problems, because they are stealing. Are there facts to buttress this? Yes, I have facts. For the past three to four months, I have been shouting that 80 per cent of crude oil being sold by Nigeria is being stolen. Even the president acknowledged that during the Sallah celebrations. But every day, he shakes hands with the thieves. They are with him. He can fire them in one second. Right now as he is listening to me, he can fire them, but he wouldn’t, for political and moral bankruptcy purposes. For lack of leadership purposes, for lack of patriotism, and lack of courage. For finding yourself in the office, enjoying the office but not knowing how to do the job. Secondly, even the little that comes in is being stolen by the apparatus of government. It’s not me talking, it’s the government. At its inception, this government came up with Treasury Single Account (TSA), what would you say about it in terms of the economy? I have already started job creation. When I was in Washington,  for many years, I have been helping the national chambers of commerce in America. I go all over the world, fixing problems for them.  I am an investment lawyer. When I was doing this investment law services, I couldn’t take investment to my country. I brought companies to this country, many of them ran away because they will go to jail immediately, because right from the world go, people would want to use them for money laundering, people want to pack money into their contract, so they said they can’t come here. A well-run American company came here to build an airport. I was their lawyer. They came to me and said we forfeit the contract, are gone because the new governor came and said we should pack the contract ten times over again. They just gave it to a Nigerian company and left. So, when I started running for president, I know that the first thing I need to do is to, first of all, create 30 million jobs. I went back to the national Chambers of commerce and told them if they can help me, let us talk to these companies, I am going to remove the conditions you are running away from, remove the corruption and bottlenecks, and remove the idea of you going to the Nigerian Embassy for a visa where they are already collecting bribe from you. What I need from you, as in the five sectors and we started calling the CROSS, I was at a press conference in Washington where I secured 30 million jobs. That’s the first phase. There is nothing fantastic about it. Any president who is facing this challenge is not the one that would borrow money to use and scatter the election and use the whole four years to pay them back. If he is focusing on what I am focusing on now, there won’t be much problem. From my first day in office, I know where the jobs are coming from, they are coming from Agriculture and agro-allied, green energy, and infrastructure. This infrastructure I am talking about, we are not going to borrow money from China and we are not going to use our money. China cannot borrow you again because they have seen that there is no executive capacity. How do you want to create these 30 million jobs? At the moment, there are 2000 companies that have signed up for this. When you look at the companies, from just their auxiliary services, they can generate up to 60 million jobs and many of these are willing to come over immediately.  As the campaign progresses, they are coming over here. I met them in Washington. So they will be coming over here in person to outline how the jobs would be done. They are not interested in our politics, but interested in showing you that Nigeria has the capacity to employ the entire West Africa.  The only thing you need to do in Nigeria is allow Agriculture to run which means you need to have security so that farmers don’t get killed. There are those who would say what you are reeling out isn’t different from what the APC did in 2015, what do you say to this? The first thing people must be suspicious of is their own sense of judgment. In 2015, these people should not have succeeded in fooling anybody at all. The person they presented as their candidate had been in government before. He didn’t succeed in doing anything major. People surrounding him were the people causing the problem he claims he is coming to solve. He was flying jets that they paid for. The APC  and Buhari were spending money and in competition with  PDP who was printing their own Dollars. You realise that this gentleman is talking, first is not saying what he knows how to say, they are just putting words in his mouth. These people are also the cause of the problems he says he wants to solve and they have held him hostage. What we need to do now is we must run away from being deceived again with another hashtag. Luckily for us, these people who are various parties, are one people. Whether you are APC, PDP, or Labour. Do you mean Labour Party is inclusive, are you saying that because Peter Obi was once the party’s vice presidential candidate? Yes, but not only that. They were not there for a day, they also had prominent roles they played. Labour is an extension of PDP. Labour borrowed PDP’s body. What I am saying is that don’t be deceived by labelling. The external establishment now is in three parties on order to fool you. The first time, they were in PDP. Second time, the new PDP which was the soul of it, muffed with the then ACN and others, created the second PDP, which the APC.  Buhari was borrowed as a phase because people had the legend that he came from heaven directly. What they are now doing in order to create that third branch of that same camp, because the person who was Vice President to the PDP four years ago is now claiming to be labour and the senator (Obis vice) while in the Senate, never passed any sensible bill, is his vice. I am saying this because young people follow hashtag and things like that, just like they flowed hashtag eight years ago. Your party isn’t as popular as others, what are your chances of emerging president in 2023? Our chances are quite bright. Let me tell you why we are not making noise. We have refused to become a refuge camp for the decampees. Even the people who went to Labour came to us first. Peter Obi came to SDP  first. We set exams for all of them but they all failed the exams. Peter Obi failed our exams. Bola Tinubu failed the exams. What were the questions in the exam? Tell us about your past, why are you different now and why should you commit the crime on your own and stain our body with it?