LAGOS  – The Lagos State Government has sought the involvement of academic institutions in the State in bringing about solutions to challenges faced in the physical planning and urban development sector. Dr. Idris Salako , the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, made the disclosure in Alausa during the study tour of the Ministry by the Centre for Planning Studies of the Lagos State University (LASU) The Commissioner, who commended the study tour for coming at the right time, said that the “Gown” and the “Town” must collaborate effectively to ensure that academic research translate into solutions to myriad problems confronting the society, especially in the area of sustainable physical planning. He added that the LASU Centre for Planning Studies must be encouraged to fulfil the societal expectation of making research works count in addressing development issues such as the perennial building collapse as well as planning and urban regeneration challenges. “ Therefore, we are very much disposed to fostering collaborations with the academic institution to provide the deserved blend between the ideal and practice, while ensuring that developments in the sector benefit from innovative research “, he said. Salako enjoined the institution to beam its intellectual searchlight on the mandate of the Ministry, which focused on achieving livable and sustainable physical environment as enshrined in the THEMES agenda. He noted that the envisaged collaboration was expected to enhance the output and relevance of the Ministry that has so far produced 11 Master and Model City Plans, awarded 9 Action Area Plans and 9 Development Guide Plans, in addition to the ongoing review of some planning instruments. Dr. Olajide Babatunde, the Special Adviser, E-GIS and Physical Planning, urged the Lagos State University to support the Ministry in its bid to automate planning process in the State, adding that the ivory tower could play key roles in bringing the idea into fruition. POLL Engr. Abiola Kosegbe, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, further enlightened students of the Centre on mandates and activities of the ministry and its agencies. Dr. Ade Adebayo, the Programme coordinator, Housing and Urban Development, LASU, appreciated the management of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development for sharing their knowledge with the students who are on study tour. He said that knowledge gained by the students would go a long way in achieving success in their various fields. Also present were Directors in the Ministry, who took turns in educating and enlightening the students on the activities of their respective departments.