LAGOS  – Concerned about the welfare of its workers post retirement era, the Lagos State government has taken proactive steps to ameliorate the perceived suffering associated with old age by raising its contribution to their retirement savings accounts to 10per cent from 7.5per cent. Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, the Lagos State Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, stated this during a joint appearance with Mr. Babalola Obilana, the Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC), on a Lagos Television programme.. Monitored by an online newspaper, Ponnle stressed that the increase in the monthly contribution to the retirement savings of workers is a form of social security intervention by the State Government. “The Lagos State Government was responsible for contributing 7.5per cent until Y2020 while the employees contributed 7.5per cent making a total of 15per cent in all. However, the present administration has now increased its share of contribution to 10per cent of the monthly pensionable salary, while the employees now contribute 8per cent as opposed to the previous 7.5per cent. What this means is that there is a lot more savings for officers when they retire,’’ Ponnle said. The Commissioner further stated that the Defined Benefits Pensions (DBP) are paid monthly alongside staff salary, adding that the state government pays over N170 million every month for DBP. She noted the passion of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for workers and retired public servants, with emphasis on the consistency and commitment of the governor to the welfare of staff and pensioners. Mr. Obilana, the Director-General of LASPEC, also speaking,praised Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration for its commitment to the welfare of pensioners, adding that apart from regular payments of benefits, the State Government ensures that Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) give priority attention to the State Pensioners. Obilana said: “Most of the time when retirees complain about their benefits, we take it up immediately with the PFA concerned. This is because the Governor intends to ensure that by the time an officer retires, he gets his retirement benefits.’ POLL He is of the opinion that there is a high possibility that by early next year all the outstanding backlog of retirees’ entitlements would have been paid with the way the Sanwo-Olu administration is paying out tranches of backlog.