The Action Alliance (AA) has reacted to a story that broke online late Friday and is currently going viral supposing that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has left out the party (AA) among others, on the list of political parties that have forwarded the names of their gubernatorial candidates to INEC office. In a swift and vehement response to the story, the Action Alliance, in a statement signed by Oniru Ayinla, the Lagos State chairman of the party, did not only debunk the story but also described the INEC action as “a deliberate action to cause confusion among the electorate.” The party executive went further to state unequivocally that the Action Alliance in deed has a gubernatorial candidate for Lagos State in the person of Tope Balogun whose particulars were duly submitted together with the particulars of Salako Tosin Mautin as the running mate, to the INEC office and duly received (documents inserted below).  POLL  PRESS STATEMENT ACTION ALLIANCE GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDATE, LAGOS STATE This is to call the public’s attention to the false publication that is flying around that Action Alliance does not have a Gubernatorial candidate in Lagos state representing a deliberate action to cause confusion among the electorates. The party has a candidate whose particulars and credentials were officially submitted and published by INEC with a copy of the same in our possession. For the avoidance of doubt, the Gubernatorial candidate of Action Alliance is Balogun Tope AbdurRazaq while his running mate is Salako Tosin Mautin. This press release is officially made to correct all the negative narratives which may not be unconnected to some political gimmicks by our traducers. Oniru AyinlaState chairmanAction Alliance Speaking to Daily Independentonline on the development, Mr. Tope Balogun observed that it must be an error from the INEC office even as the Action Alliance gubernatorial hopeful expressed confidence that the Nigerian electoral umpire would urgently do the needful to rectify its own error in order to douse the tension already created among the members of the party and its teeming loyal supporters by the false alarm born of the viral story. “I hope that INEC will rise to its integrity in this matter and rectify the anomaly in order to douse the unnecessary tension already created by this false alarm. “I can perceive the handiwork of our detractors from outside the party who have been feeling threatened and uneasy to observe our great party breaking barriers of monotony and infiltrating the Lagos political arena towards instituting real people-oriented governance in the state”, Tope Balogun said. The Lagos State guber hopeful has appealed to his party members and supporters not to be discouraged by the false news, even as he expressed absolute confidence that they would have the chance to vote him in as the next governor of Lagos State in the coming 2023 elections. Meanwhile, when Daily Independentonline contacted for comments on the development, Mr. Ogwuegbu who conducted the Action Alliance primary said that he had already carried out his assignment as far as the party’s primary is concerned. He, therefore, advised any party with any kind of complaints about the said published party governorship candidates’ list to approach the INEC legal department to lodge such complaints. being