AWKA  – The family of Igwe Alex Edozieuno, Ezendo of Mkpunando community in Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State, who was murdered in cold blood last year has cried out for justice for the assassinated ruler. Igwe Edozieuno was killed on September 10 2021 after Ezu River Bridge along Onitsha-Otuocha-Adani Road while returning from a visit. Shortly after,, his son Prince Chinedu, alleged he had been receiving threatening calls from anonymous persons. Igwe Edozieuno ran into trouble in 2021 after he joined 12 other traditional rulers on a visit to Aso Rock and was dethroned and replaced. However, before his assassination Igwe Edozieuno had had three different encounters with his enemies in his community and alerted the police that his life was in danger. In 2019, he petitioned the police about threat to his life by seven members of his community, who assaulted him in August while the wife of Governor Willie Obiano visited Anambra East Local Government headquarters, Otuocha. In his petition, Igwe Edozieuno complained that the seven persons after his life “rounded me up in the presence of the Superintendent of Police sent to the arena of the event. I could have been a dead person by now”. The following year on February 24, Igwe Edozieuno, writing through his lawyer, I. N. Onyeabo, in a petition to the police titled: “Attempted Murder and Arson” said he escaped death after he was physically attacked by a group who invaded his palace with weapons and allegedly stabbed one Chinedu Madubueze while three other persons received gun shot injuries. He said the attack took place on February 22. POLL In all the attacks Igwe Edozieuno gave the names of the persons involved. Following his assassination, his son, Chinedu, expressed surprise that Governor Willie Obiano who hailed from the same community and of the same age grade as his father, cared less about the monarch’s death. Last weekend, Chinedu told Daily Independent that no progress has been made by the police about his father’s assassination despite all efforts made by the family to bring the perpetrators to book. According to him, police arrested alleged culprits and took them to Abuja but they were released few days after. The accused persons, he said are back in the community threatening fire and brimstone. Chienedu suspected that the murder of his father was orchestrated going by the way things happened in quick succession after he was dethroned. When interviewed on the progress made in the case the police spokesman in Anambra State, Mr. Ikenga Tochukwu, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) after three days, simply told Daily Independent that the suspect has been taken to Abuja.