***Says Massive Crowd Indicate Victory At Election GOMBE – Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party NNPP, Alhaji Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has applauded and described the massive turnout of people to welcome him in Gombe as a sign that Nigerians are desirous of seeing the end of the Buhari led APC Government. Kwankwaso commissioned the Gombe State party office of the NNPP Saturday evening but he said the massive crowd that came out to welcome him from the Airport into town motivated him to say that Gombe State has joined Kano State and others in the league of “Kwankwasiya States”. Addressing the party supporters at the Gombe International Hotel shortly after commissioning the State party office, Kwankwaso said, the NNPP is barely three to four months old but there are indications for light at the end of the day for the party. He said NNPP is the party that will bring real positive change to Nigerians by wiping away the tears and sufferings inflicted by the Buhari led APC Government. According to him, the greedy APC Government officials have collapsed all sector of the Nigerian economy with the exception of their pockets. He urged them to go out and acquire their PVC’s as that stands as the only means they can use to change the tide in Nigeria. Chairman Board of Trustees of the NNPP, Buba Galadima, said 2023 elections will be very interesting for the NNPP going by the way they were received in Gombe State. -Advertisement- POLL He called on members to go for their PVC’s as well as mobilize Nigerians in all parts of the State especially in villages to do same. The State’s Governorship candidate of the party, Alhaju Ahmed Khamisu Mailantarki thanked the Presidential candidate for the visit and assured that the party office commissioned will greatly enhance their campaign activities in the State. He said the NNPP in Gombe State rely so much on the masses who are the backbone of the party stressing that they captured the minds of Gombe people because they have been following the footsteps Kwankwaso, the party leader, by empowering the youths to realize their dreams and potentials in different sectors the world the world over. “By copying your legacies, we were able to send no fewer than eight young Nigerians to pursue their football career in Europe and other parts of world and we still plan more of such initiative”, Mailantarki stated.