ISAAC ASABOR In the bid to meet the emerging needs of consumers in the realty sector of the economy, particularly in the area of adequate electricity, Nedcomoaks Limited, a Lagos-based real estate development company, has launched a fully solar-powered estate known as Citadel View Estate (CVE) located in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos The estate, which is located by Abraham Adesanya, Lekki-Epe expressway, Lagos State, aims at making living affordable to all through an array of housing options with exceptional features at a realisable budget. According to Dr. Kennedy Okonkwo, the Real-estate entrepreneur, businessman and founder of Nedcomoaks Limited, the company behind the development and building of the estate, Citadel View, embarked on the unique and innovative project as a way of meeting the need of consumers in the sector, particularly in respect to electricity, hence the estate was planned to be driven by solar energy,thus, making the estate the first with such innovation across estates in the country. Okonkwo said the innovation was necessitated by the prevailing crisis being experienced in the energy sector of the nation’s economy, with particular reference to soaring cost of diesel which hinders regular power supply in residential estates. According to him, “The Citadel View Estate will solve the problem of housing deficit and at the same time solve the epileptic challenge of electricity through the use of solar panels”. He explained that the estate will be deploying cutting-edge solar energy technology and a biogas sewage treatment system, being the first of its kind in Lagos with a housing model focused on sustainable living. It is been constructed alongside other modern technology solutions designed to elevate the living experience of its residents, such as a stealth security system, world-class recreational areas, and water treatment facility. POLL He added that “As the first solar powered estate in Nigeria, Citadel View is designed with cutting-edge scalable solar solutions that let each household get its own power while still being connected to local grid and gas-powered backup generators. The result is an aspirational home environment where residents can excel without having to worry about high service charges. At a media parley ahead of the event that unveiled the project to Journalists, Okonkwo explained that CVE will provide 5,000 powered housing in five years which represents 1000 housing powered solar electricity every year across Africa, explained that “It is a very big feat to accomplish but we are determined to do that. “We are doing that with different partners we have signed with this particular project. We have some of them displayed on the billboard displayed outside. “We have partner that ensure that we are supplied with all the needed iron. “The provision of solar energy according to Okonkwo will ensure uninterrupted power without noise and air pollution adding that the homes in Citadel Views Estate are designed with scalable solar solutions that let each household get its own power while still being connected to the national grid and central gas-powered backup generators”. He said the estate’s security system employs CCTVs and other modern devices to keep residents safe whilst boasting of a vast array of recreational facilities, including two swimming pools, a state-of-the-art gym, tennis court, football pitch and children playground. Citadel Views Estate is known for elevating the living experiences of its residents. The company sold over 580 Lagos homes in 2020, at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic as economies around the world nosedived. Under the leadership of the CEO, Ichechi Okonkwo, the company is poised to deliver its signature quality housing solutions to this Lagos suburb. Citadel Views Estate (CVE), a leading sustainable residential housing development company, has introduced sustainable housing innovations in Nigeria through its deployment of technology solutions to elevate the living experience of its residents whilst keeping prices affordable. Unarguably throwing more insight to the facilities that are inherent in the estate, Okonkwo said the company is guided by the belief that a home should be more than a residence, it should be a place with the proper infrastructure and environment that enhance people’s capacity to achieve their dreams. A typical CVE home, therefore, should inspire its residents to excel in their chosen endeavor. He noted that Citadel Views Estate is targeting a large market in Nigerians and in the diaspora. He assured that with the aim of elevating the living experience of its residents, Citadel views Estate consists of 175 apartments with a total of 525 rooms and 350 units of car parking space, all on 33,900 square meters of land. The estate is expected to be completed by the last quarter of 2022. As to the side attractions that are within the locality wherein the estate is located, he said, “With the value of the naira falling against popular currencies such as the dollar and pound, real estate has become cheaper for many Nigerians in western countries and has become a source of smart investment for them. Citadel Views Estate ticks the box in this regard, with prices starting from around 9,000 dollars deposit. The estate’s proximity to the Lagos Business School, a renowned citadel of learning for business programmes, adds significant value. In addition, its proximity to several popular attractions including, Akodo Beach, Novare Mall, Atican Beach, and Lakowe Golf Resort is guaranteed to enhance residents’ living experience. In addition, the estate residents will have access to an efficiently installed Google Voice Assistant. This will enable them to get basic information about their environment in terms of knowing the traffic situation and best route to ply, and what the weather would be like. They can also make orders from stores and supermarkets around. The software is so effective that it turns their words to action without lifting their fingers to type their requests. As regard the sustainability of the environment within the estate, he said, “The need to separate and re-use waste to enhance a better life no doubt has prompted Citadel Views Foundation to embark on a generational lifesaving campaign. “We are already painstakingly building a sustainable green estate to reduce necessary emissions which could put the climate at jeopardy. The world is presently talking about climate actions and as a way of bequeathing a safer and better planet to the generation un-born, we are partnering with notable companies like Coca-Cola to ensure that waste generated, especially the bottles known as the PET can be recycled into another purpose. “The foundation is bent on bringing about a behavioral change of recycling of waste within its estates. We also want to use the proceed for enhancing waste management and recycling sector which in today’s market brings in about N60 to N80 for 60 pieces of used plastic bottles, measuring 1KG. Dr. Okonkwo being a philanthropist is now taking up the project and has promised to match up exactly the amount raised to empower and reach out to the children of the indigents that are unable to get sound education in the remotest part of the country. This would be part of his own little ways of giving back to society”.