P/HARCOURT – Several attempts by the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company, NPDC, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company, NNPC, to re-enter Ogoni for oil exploration has again been rejected by the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, MOSOP. MOSOP in a statement in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital on Wednesday described NPDC, Sahara Energy and Shell as “symbols of genocide”. The pan-Ogoni socio-cultural group said the failure of the Nigerian state to deliberately address the Ogoni problem in over three decades “is genocidal and gradually pushing the Ogoni people into extinction”. In an address to the MOSOP Congress in Biara, Gokana local government area of the state on Tuesday, MOSOP President, Fegalo Nsuke said the poverty and neglect of the Ogoni was having a devastating effect on the survival and security of the Ogoni people. Nsuke reminded that Ogoni people live in an environment without basic infrastructure, no economy, no jobs and the government has been unable to provide security for them over the years. “Nigeria is taking advantage of the excruciating poverty in Ogoni and using it as a strong weapon against the people’s resolve to stand for human rights and justice”. Nsuke hailed MOSOP congress and Central Committee decisions denouncing the moves by the NPDC, Sahara Energy and Shell to gain access to the Ogoni oilfields forcefully, noting that such actions would threaten the peace of the entire Niger Delta if allowed unchecked. He said “Ogoni rejects the NPDC, Shell and Sahara Energy because they have sponsored violent tendencies in Ogoni with actions that threaten the peace of the land and they do not share the ideals of the Ogoni struggle for justice and peace”. POLL According to him, “NPDC and Sahara Energy have been very hostile to the Ogoni by sponsoring violence through mushroom groups in Ogoni in bids to force their way into the Ogoni oilfields. They do not share Ogoni’s development goals and therefore were not wanted in Ogoni”, he said. Nsuke pledged the commitment of MOSOP leadership to stand for justice and fair treatment and demanded an end to the neglect. He urged the government to accept MOSOP’s proposals for a dialogue so as to resolve all disputed areas of conflict and pave the way for a new era of cooperation and development. The MOSOP President noted that as a people, the Ogoni have a right to decide their priorities and path to their future and an engagement between the government and other relevant stakeholders was necessary to streamline the best approaches that would lead to a resolution of all disputed areas. He noted that considering the enormous contributions of the Ogoni people in Nigeria which far exceeds $200billion in the past 60 years, the demand for a fair share from the enormous natural endowments was not too much. Nsuke further remarked that while the Ogoni people were willing to engage, the Ogoni position is for the operation of an Ogoni Development Authority, ODA, which allows the Ogoni people to take responsibility of their development and economic security. The MOSOP President noted that the Central Committee’s approval of the ODA was an opportunity for all and MOSOP was willing to engage further on how best to implement this development plan to secure the Ogoni future.