A chieftain of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Imo State, Mr Ijere Amadi, has called on the Nigeria Police to immediately arrest one Edozie Njoku and his collaborators for allegedly doctoring the judgement of the supreme court on the Party’s leadership crisis. A statement by Amadi on Thursday, titled “Edozie Njoku: what the public, INEC, security agents should know”, said Njoku from nowhere since May 9, 2022, had been parading himself as the National Chairman of the APGA, claiming that the Apex court had purportedly reviewed its earlier judgement, which affirmed Victor Oye, as the authentic Chairman of the party on October 14, 2021. He alleged that an investigation at the apex court showed that Edozie Njoku doctored the judgment to suit his egocentricity. Amadi who identified himself as a founding member of APGA, maintained that contrary to the stories being bandied about by Njoku, the Supreme Court never reviewed any judgment or recognized him as national chairman of APGA. “Let me ask Edozie Njoku some questions: Were the legal teams of all the parties in the suit a part of the so-called review? Was he a party to the suit that was dismissed by the Supreme Court on October 14, 2021? Did INEC monitor his so-called Convention which he claimed he held at Owerri on May 31, 2019?,” Amadi queried. He further alleged that Edozie Njoku had been calling unsuspecting persons to come to him and procure forms to participate in a non-existent primary, adding, “these persons have been chasing him all over the place to recover their money. And he has gone into hiding. Should this type of ignoble thing be allowed to happen in any decent society?” Amadi, however, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission, for standing up in defence of our democracy, even as he charged National Judicial Council to step into the matter immediately and deal decisively with all those involved in what he described as a questionable and condemnable act, in order to save the country’s judiciary and democracy from opprobrium. Amadi who chronicled the genesis of the crisis in APGA said: “From the blues, on May 9 this year, Edozie Njoku started parading a judgment which he purported was reviewed by the Supreme Court. Investigation at the apex court showed that Edozie Njoku doctored the judgment to suit his egocentricity. -Advertisement- POLL “Contrary to the stories he is bandying about, the Supreme Court never reviewed any judgment or recognised him as national chairman of APGA. “Let me ask Edozie Njoku some questions: Were the legal teams of all the parties in the suit a part of the so-called review? Was he a party to the suit that was dismissed by the Supreme Court on October 14, 2021? Did INEC monitor his so-called Convention which he claimed he held at Owerri on May 31, 2019? “What Edozie Njoku is doing is to resort to blackmail to whip up sentiments in order to arouse undue sympathy. But that is not working. “From the above it is undisputable that Edozie Njoku and his cohorts are back to their usual game of subterfuge, blackmail and deceit. “Though the matter is being investigated by the police, I think the police should not hesitate to arrest Edozie Njoku and his collaborators and charge them to court, where they should answer vital questions and prove their innocence, if any. “Inside of me, I am burning with anger because this man has been allowed to serially cause confusion, deceive and extort people. “Edozie Njoku has been calling unsuspecting persons to come to him and procure forms to participate in a non-existent primary. These persons have been chasing him all over the place to recover their money. And he has gone into hiding. Should this type of ignoble thing be allowed to happen in any decent society? “I must not fail to commend INEC for standing up in defence of our democracy. INEC has shown that it is an unbiased umpire and has played the role of regulator efficiently. I wonder if anybody would just wake up one day and begin to lay claim to the Managing Director of a bank when he or she has no business with the bank. “It is the Central Bank that knows who the managing directors of the banks it regulates are. It is the same thing with INEC. It is only INEC that can tell who the recognized chairmen of registered political parties in Nigeria are. “The National Judicial Council should step into the matter immediately and deal decisively with all those involved in this questionable and condemnable act in order to save our judiciary and democracy from opprobrium.