The history of humankind is replete with dreadful accounts of nations, great and small, that were built around the subject of religion. As a human vehicle for expressing theis­tic orientation, religion has guided and sustained many empires and kingdoms across the world, and it has also led to the ruination of many others. The general verdict of history on religion with poli­tics has been that of unbridled bigotry, intolerance and institutionalized perse­cution due to doctrinal differences. Let’s we forget, religion was an integral part of the defunct European monarchical system where the political establishment was shared amongst the Clergy, being the First Estate, the Nobles comprising the Second Estate and the Peasants and the Bourgeoisies constituting the Third Estate of the realm. But when political revolutions eventual­ly swept across Europe, starting with the French Revolution a couple of centuries ago, these “estates of the realm” promptly collapsed under the weight of their own oppression especially the once revered Church and its clergy. It was a serious setback for Christendom as it became ob­vious that the Church willfully partook in the atrocities of the ‘ancient regime’ and as such, wherever it managed to survive thereafter, like in England, its powers and relevance were drastically diminished as secular powers took over state control. Relics of the “Estates of the Realm” are now to be found in the governing trinity encased in the constitutional doctrine of Separation of Powers comprising of the Legislature, the Executive and the Judi­ciary, the three principal organs of govern­ment now providing ‘checks and balances,’ a reliable bulwark against tyranny. How­ever, no one can honestly say today that religion is completely eliminated in poli­tics as secular governments still have di­verse levels of engagement with religious institutions but in extremely limited and subordinate ways. Following the unpleasant historical out­comes of situations where religion had un­duly undermined the peace, progress and stability of societies, the modern world has since come to the enlightened con­clusion that there should be a conceptual Wall separating the State from Religion as a way of avoiding the calamities that befell the Christian Europe wherein the Church and the State were adjudged as co-conspirators in perpetrating heinous political crimes such as doctrinal persecu­tion and ecumenical schisms while falsely proclaiming egregious evils such as slav­ery and apartheid as the “will of God”. As the religiously persecuted Europe­ans took the desperate plunge into the uncharted New World in the Americas seeking freedom, they were not just repu­diating the idea of religion intermingling with politics, they were also reinforcing the democratic ideals of self-determina­tion, freedom of thought and conscience as was beautifully expressed by Thomas Jef­fersons as being “tyranny over the mind of Man” wherever the State is interwoven with religion. The world watched in utter consterna­tion how the once secular Lebanon, found­ed by the Maronite Christians which was universally acknowledged as the Pearl of the Middle East, the Paris of the Orient as well as the intellectual and financial hub of the region is today in ruins and rendered politically ungovernable with no immediate hope of redemption because they have chosen to ignore the historically tested prescription of secular governance and had yielded to the insatiable emotions of religion, a system characterised by in­temperate and endless sectarian rivalries in multi-religious societies. It is baffling that in their partisan and primordial con­ceptualization of politics, a few loud Nige­rians unwittingly pushing for the failed Lebanese model of allocating political offices along religious lines in the name of “balancing.” Under the so-called 1943 National Pact, Lebanon shared out the three topmost po­sitions in her government along religious lines: the President must be a Maronite Christian, the Speaker must be a Shi’ a Muslim and the Prime Minister must be a Sunni Muslim. That arrangement that was initially intended to appease the religious sentiments in the country ended up fiend­ishly promoting incompetence, corruption and misplaced loyalty at great cost to the overall wellbeing of the Lebanese Society. From a once prosperous forward-looking secular society, Lebanon has since degen­erated into one in which everyone seeks to profit from their religious affinities at the expense of national cohesion, political stability and economic development. It has forced more than three-quarters of her cit­izens to flee the country making Lebanon the laughingstock of her once propitiative and beggarly neighbours like the UAE and Qatar, etc. Sadly, Nigeria has now embarked on a similarly terrible journey into religious politics contrary to the stipulations of our Founding Fathers who wisely decided that secularism be enshrined the nation’s Governing Charter, starting from Inde­pendence. Over the course of rudderless military dictatorships and a dysfunction­al democracy, there have arisen a surfeit of shortsighted leaders who seem more committed to repudiating the fundamental principles of secularism, the consensual palladium on which the Nigerian union was founded, to the point where it is now tending to appear as if Nigeria is heading towards a theocratic diarchy for sharing powers between Christians and Muslims. POLL Rather than appealing to the civic con­sciousness of Nigerians, a succession of bad national leaders has found it cheap and addictive to play the religious card, knowing that religion is the opium of the masses and we have all seen how that aberrational diversion has elevated superstitions and ritualism over science and technology, all leading to an indolent culture and rabid siesta syndrome which promotes wishful thinking such as official­ly praying for a bumper harvest when not much was planted and other crazy stuffs like ‘money rituals’ – a delusional age of miracles! The recent party primaries by the two big parties in Nigeria, PDP and APC, gen­erated and unusual decibels of hues and cries over religion and ethnicity, unmis­takable evidence of how far Nigerians have taken to clannish and primordial tendencies. The PDP defaulted in its poli­cy of oscillating power between north and south as well as its earlier insinuation that it would most likely cede the presidential slot to the Southeast “in the interest of justice.” The real grouse now is that Ati­ku, the eventual PDP flagbearer, is also a Northern Fulani man, like the outgo­ing Muhammadu Buhari, a development which has led to tons of diabolical insin­uations. On the other hand, Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the APC picking Alhaji Shettima, fel­low Muslim as his running mate has cre­ated so much alarm about what they call an unacceptable Muslim-Muslim ticket. Same reaction would probably have also trailed a Christian-Christian presidential ticket. The last time such happened was in 1993 when the late Chief MKO of the SDP picked Alhaji Babagana Kingibe, a fellow Muslim, as his running mate. It is interesting to note that in all these sanc­timonious and contrived lamentations, nothing meaningful is being said about the competences and capacities of the indi­vidual candidates. Perhaps, the incessant killings and kidnappings of Christians and their priests allegedly by Islamic ter­rorists and Fulani herders have aided the subsequent weaponization of religion as a tool for national politics has added fuel to the bourgeoning sectarian angst. Religion has filled the vacuum creat­ed by the nonavailability of ideology in our politics; we have thus clung tightly to things that really should be considered as mundane for a society anxious to suc­ceed in the competitive world of today. There appears to be unanimity amongst observers that it is President Muhammadu Buhari who, for whatever reason, vastly expanded the inherently touchy ethnic and sectarian “fault lines” of Nigeria by his unbridled recruitment nepotism and general policy bigotry like no other previ­ous leader has done. It is the belief that if he has minimally pursued an integrative policy across the nation’s sectarian and ethnic divide, the present retrogressive ecumenical partisanship would have been minimised because religion should never be a decisive criterion for national lead­ership recruitment like it is in Lebanon.