IBADAN – The attention of the National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Senator Iyiola Omisore has been drawn to a mischievous and misinforming post on a hacked Facebook book that he has congratulated Senator Ademola Adeleke on his victory at the last Saturday governorship election in Osun state. Senator Omisore in a statement issued by his Media office on Tuesday disowned the Facebook account, the post entitled “Congratulations to Senator Ademola Adeleke. The new governor-elect of our dear state, Osun” in its entirety as it never emanated from him. According to the statement, it will amount to anti party act for Senator Omisore as the APC National Secretary to be commenting not to talk of coming up with the said “Congratulatory” message when the APC as a political party has not officially reacted to the Osun governorship election. “My attention has been drawn to a total falsehood posted on a Facebook account created by a mischievous individual using my photography on the page. I wish to clearly state and disown the said message “Congratulations to Senator Ademola Adeleke. The new governor -elect of our dear state, Osun on the outcome of the Osun governorship election, held on Saturday, July, 16, 2022. “There was no time such a Facebook comment emanated from me or any person authorized by me. And moreso, the Face account was not created by me. “It is unfortunate that some faceless individuals could in the name of attempting to disparage my person go to the extent of creating Facebook page in my name with the sole aim of dishing out falsehood and wicked lies in my name to score cheap political point”. The operator of the said Facebook page upon investigation has been found to be one “faceless AY” who claimed to be based in Port Harcourt”. Senator Omisore however called on the entire APC leaders and members to disregard the so called congratulations message to Senator Ademola Adeleke or any other person concerning the Osun state governorship election. POLL “This is to inform the All Progressives Congress (APC) Stakeholders (leaders and members) and the General Public that the National Secretary of our great Party, Senator Iyiola Omisore does not Congratulate Demola Adeleke through any medium. The Purported Congratulatory message is fake and should be disregarded. “I don’t know anything whatsoever about the said Congratulations message on the Facebook page. The Facebook account does not belong to me, I never posted the message. It should be disregarded with the content in its entirety.” The statement cautioned that the public “should please beware of various Pseudo media account(s) created in the name of Senator Iyiola Omisore and confirm the Authenticity of any information(s) through his media unit before circulating”.