LAGOS – The National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) has kicked against the continuous closure of universities by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), saying the action has caused untold damage to education in the country. The union also said that it was ready to join the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) in its planned industrial action to further compel the Federal Government to address the demands of ASUU. Therefore, the union has called on all aviation workers nationwide to remain at alert for the commencement of solidarity industrial action that may be directed by the NLC and its affiliates on the matter, which may come at short notice. NUATE in a statement by Comrade Ocheme Aba, its General Secretary, lamented that the position of the Federal Government had further dampened the hope of the future generation of the country. The statement added that the present circumstances had done incalculable and irreversible damage to the educational trajectory of Nigerian children, especially those from poor families whose parents are unable to afford the high cost of private education. Aba insisted that the union was in complete support of the position of the National Executive Council of NLC, which directed the government to immediately resolve the protracted strike. The statement added: “This situation is worsened by the laiz-a-fez attitude the Federal Government has adopted towards resolving the imbroglio brought about in the first place by Government’s failure to play its part in the agreement with ASUU. This situation is deeply worrying, to say the least. “NUATE, therefore, completely supports the position of the National Executive Council of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) to the effect that Government must immediately resolve the prolonged ASUU strike. It is totally unacceptable to allow the education of the children of poor workers, and other poor citizens, to be so badly truncated as to become worthless.” POLL The statement added that NUATE totally supported the public demonstrations ordered by NLC to call on the Federal Government to urgently resolve the imbroglio. It declared that NUATE was ready to embark on industrial action in solidarity with ASUU, should the Federal Government fail to heed the call to duty over this matter.