Senator Jim Nwobodo, a former Governor of Anambra State has felicitated the governor-elect of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) over his victory in the state’s governorship election held on Saturday, July 16. Nwobodo in a press statement he signed and made available to journalists in Abuja on Sunday said Adeleke’s victory was a precursor to success awaiting the main opposition party, PDP in the 2023 general elections. He said, “I congratulate the governor-elect of Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke for his victory in the well-conducted polls last Saturday. “Adeleke’s victory is a forerunner to the electoral fortunes of the presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Atiku will win the presidency for PDP in 2023,” the former Second Republic Governor added. “Adeleke’s victory shows that Atiku will win the presidency and also an indication that the PDP will win in the Southwest and the other geopolitical zones.” According to him, Adeleke had in 2018 won the same governorship position through the ballots but was robbed of victory through the rigging machinery of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “This time around, he has won again in another clear victory, and I congratulate the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting a credible poll in Osun State.” While commending INEC for the successful conduct of the election, Chief Nwobodo expressed hope that the electoral body would replicate the success in the 2023 elections. POLL “What we saw in Osun shows a future for Nigeria. The election went smoothly and I hope the 2023 elections will be the same. If INEC plays the same role, maintaining its integrity as an umpire and also, people voted the way they did on Saturday, I think it is a good omen,” he said. He also praised the national leadership of the PDP chaired by Dr Iyorcha Ayu for leading the party to deliver victory in Osun State. “I congratulate you and the courageous team of the PDP members that you led to the grand finale campaign for the PDP’s governorship candidate. With Osun’s victory, we are confident you will deliver PDP’s Atiku Abubakar as president of Nigeria in 2023.” Adeleke garnered 403 371 votes to send incumbent Governor Gboyega Isiaka Oyetola and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate out of the State House in Saturday’s election.