The leadership of one of the campaign groups working towards the victory of the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the forthcoming general elections, Bola Ahmed Tinubu 2023 Campaign Organization, met in Akure, the Ondo State capital, to strategise on how to win the state for the candidate. National Coordinator of the group, Chief Sola Ebire met with members of the state and local government executives of the group mapping out campaign strategies towards the 2023 elections. Chief Ebire, who briefed members about several efforts and achievements of the campaign organization both in Ondo State and across the other 35 States of the federation, including the FCT, Abuja, urged the executives not rest on their oars until their candidate is declared winner of the presidential election. In their resolutions, members of the group were charged to explore all opportunities within their reach to garner more support for the APC candidate so that he could succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The group’s national coordinator noted that their campaign should be hinged on Asiwaju’s exemplary conduct and selflessness as witnessed by many successful political leaders who he raisrd from the grassroots to national level. According to a statement signed by the Publicity Secretary of the group, Comrade Sunday Omosule, and made available to newsmen in Akure on Sunday, the group said: “there is still need for more visibility of our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Tinubu untill Asiwaju becomes the riddle, song and slogan of every Tom, Dick and Harry in the nation and beyond, the campaign organization will not rest.” The statement disclosed that one of founders of SWAGA in Ondo State, but now the Northern Senatorial Chairman of BAT 2023 Campaign Organization, Hon. Engr. Morakinyo Arigbede and his team commended Chief Ebire for the exploits of the group so far. Among other persons in attendance are the group’s Secretary; Dr Olaolu Festus, the Director of Finance and Strategy; Hon. Collins Olagundoye, the Northern Senatorial Chairman; Hon. Engr. Morakinyo Arigbede, the Central Senatorial Chairman; Mrs. Iyabo Adewole, and the Southern Senatorial Chairman, Dr. Adeola Akintade.