ABUJA – No fewer than 10, 000 Nigerians from across the 19 northern states, on Friday staged a protest to the Presidential Villa to submit a letter to the Federal Government over the Muslim-Muslim ticket agenda adopted by the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu. The Protesters under the All Christians Community of Northern Nigeria were led by Moses Adams. Addressing the press, the group said these are indeed not the best times for Christians in the APC and Nigeria in general. “Our sensibilities have been insulted by the ambition of a select few that have elected to throw caution to the wind. “As you may be aware, Nigeria is a multi-ethnic and multi-religious state. The two major religions in the country are Islam and Christianity. And these have defined our way of life since the country attained independence in 1960. “Successive governments in the country have respected the multi-religious nature of the country, especially during elections, to create a balance in the leadership of the country” Adams stated. “We are therefore alarmed with the decision of the All Progressives Congress to disregard the Christian community in the choice of its vice presidential candidate for the 2023 presidential elections. “Without mincing words, this is unacceptable and a recipe for creating sharp divides between the Muslims and the Christians in the country,” he said. POLL The grouo reminded President Muhammadu Buhari that since the return of democracy in 1999 in Nigeria, the tradition has been a Muslim-Christian or Christian-Muslim paring by all political parties. “And this has to a large extent, ensured religious harmony in the country. “However, the move by our party to adopt a Muslim-Muslim ticket is most insensitive and the height of discrimination against Christians in our country. “This is on the heels that other political parties indeed reflected the religious balance in the composition of their presidential team” he added The Christian group said it wondered why the APC elected to tow this path of dishonour that, in its considered opinion, is deliberate to relegate the Christians in Nigeria into oblivion, which is not in the best interest of the country in this critical period of our existence. “Your Excellency Sir, we the Christians in Northern Nigeria are displeased and angered by this insensitivity. “By their action, the APC sent a strong message that Christians are not relevant in the scheme of things in the country. “The APC has also displayed religious intolerance that would eventually bring about religious tension in the country if not reversed in the overarching objective of entrenching peace and tranquillity. “As stakeholders in the APC, we know that there are credible Christians in the APC from northern Nigeria and other parts of the country who are dedicated and have outstanding credentials that could make the vice presidential slot. “Mr. President Sir, we are tempted to mention that the move by the APC is intended to cause a crisis of unimaginable proportion along ethno-religious lines. And you must admit that this is not what Nigeria needs, in all fairness. “This despicable display aggrieves the Christian community in Nigeria by the APC in presenting a Muslim-Muslim ticket for the 2023 presidential elections. “We are using this medium to appeal to your good office to intervene in reversing this ignoble move by the party’s Presidential Candidate. We demand that you invite the Presidential Candidate of the party to quickly retrace his steps immediately,” the group stated in the strongest terms.