***Says Socio-economic Corruption Led To Insecurity In Nigeria The Founder and Spiritual Head, Shafaudeen In Islam Worldwide, Prof. Sabit Ariyo Olagoke JP. has urged political power holders to rule with fear of God by upholding zero tolerance to corruption and indiscipline saying that socio-economic corruption is responsible for the security challenges the country is currently facing. He also charged the country”s leaders to embark on sustainable development through due process of global best practices for better future of Nigeria and posterity. In a congratulatory message he personally signed to felicitate Muslims on this year’s Eid -el-Kabir celebrations , the frontline Islamic cleric noted that Nigerians now live fake lives leaving aside dignity of labour to corrupt enrichment with blatant impunity. According to him, the culture of integrity, good citizenry, from Education, moral discipline from Religious sector and ethical practices in leadership and governance are now replaced with corrupt practices because we fail to heed the voice of God in our chosen religion by paying lip service in worship, making us to be bereft of wisdom and power of discerning mind to proffer appropriate solution to our emerging challenges” “How did we allow hoodlums to hijack and dominate our socio-economic and political scene to the detriment of our security? he asked adding that hoodlums now kill or kidnap at will for money ritual, dictate settlement bill to release their victims and control power at will like in Zamfara, Kaduna, Borno, Owo in Ondo State and recently Kuje Correction Centre jail break freeing more than 600 Boko Haram inmates! Olagoke, who is the Ajagun Esin (Religion Warlord) and Mogaji Ogunelu Dynasty in Ibadanland said however maintained that the antidote to correct all beastly aberrations of life is to return to God by being scripture compliant as their lessons of Eid El Kabir. “Let us resuscitate the culture of integrity and good parenting, promote functional education through adequate funding, teach the scripture and refrain from religion commercialisation”, he advised. -Advertisement- POLL Prof. Olagoke enjoined adherents to use the period to offer fervent prayers for the unity and stability of the nation which is seriously under threat due to insecurity and biting economic hardship. He also urged Muslims to exhibit peace, mutual respect and tolerance as they celebrate the Eid- el -Kabir.