Following the crisis rocking the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the loyalists of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State have listed conditions for the resolution of the grievances ahead of the 2023 general elections. It could be recalled that the choice of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State as the running mate to the presidential candidate of the party, Atiku Abubakar has been causing an uproar in the PDP camp recently. As the crisis worsened, the Chairman of the PDP’s Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin disclosed that the party had set up a nine-member committee to beg Wike. The party, also on Sunday, raised another panel headed by Atiku, to pacify the aggrieved Governor and prevail on him not to leave the party. But reacting to the political crisis rocking the party in recent times, one of Wike’s supporters and Chairman of Gokana Local Government Area in Rivers State, Confidence Deko said Wike did not deserve the treatment he got from Atiku and the PDP. Speaking with the Punch, he said, “As far I am concerned, Wike has done so much for the PDP and I don’t think he deserves what the party gave to him. Come to think of it, Atiku Abubakar and the party asked the National Working Committee (NWC) to find out who becomes the vice-president. “A report was submitted and he (Atiku) ignored the report, and then picked Ifeanyi Okowa, the Delta State Governor. “I am not saying he is not supposed to use somebody, but I am of the view that if he was part of those who asked the NWC to search for who becomes the vice-president to be, and they gave him their recommendation, he would have acted on it. -Advertisement- POLL “But to me, it looks very odd that after submitting the report to him, he went and announced Okowa. I don’t think that Wike deserves what Atiku has done to him.” The council boss, however, disclosed that Wike supporters were waiting for his decision and political direction ahead of the presidential poll. On the comments of former Plateau State Governor, Jonah Jang, on the chances of the PDP in 2023 due to the festering crisis and if Okowa should be replaced, Deko said the man was not joking. He added, “He has told you and you have heard the truth from him. If Wike was to be the vice-presidential candidate for Atiku, by now, you know Wike is a very practical person. And he does what his mind ask him to do.” “The only option is to remove Okowa from there and announce Wike. In 2019, Wike brought the highest number of votes from South-South.” Correspondingly, some members of the House of Representatives loyal to Wike contended that the PDP was bound to fail with its choice of Okowa as the running mate. The PDP lawmakers took a swipe at the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, criticising his role in the crisis that has followed the presidential primary of the opposition party. When asked if the party should substitute Okowa with Wike, a member of the House from Kogi State, Teejay Yusuf, said it was possible if the presidential candidate could see the value the Rivers governor would add to the PDP ticket. He said, “That will be the choice of the candidate. It would be his prerogative to do that. It is not for me to suggest that to him. If he sees that  Wike will add more value to the ticket and say ‘with the way it is, I can manage the ripple effect of taking Okowa out,’ why not, if not?” “Okowa is a PDP governor but nobody can deny the fact that Wike has the will and the capacity to make this party stand on its feet.” The lawmaker, however, dismissed the possibility of Wike, who he described as “a party man,” dumping the PDP for another party or working with another party or presidential candidate through the backdoor. “I know that the standard-bearer is a politician of repute and he knows the dynamics, but he is a human being. So, if he made the wrong decision, I believe that, fortunately, the Electoral Act (2022) gives ample time; we have eight months to the general elections. In politics, one day can be a million days. A lot can be done in one day,” Yusuf noted. The lawmaker affirmed that the standard-bearer should naturally look for the best way to make the decision while avoiding “a situation that might jeopardise the unity of the party and the collective desire to win the election.” The lawmaker also condemned  Ayu for allegedly taking sides in the crisis, when he should have been neutral as the leader of the party. Yusuf cited the example of how Ayu met with the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, and called him a hero. Speaking on the calls on Atiku to reconcile with Wike, he said, “That is a fact and that was what was emphasised by the leaders who spoke of recent, notably Governor Ortom and former governor Jang. I lend my voice to that, that one stoops to conquer. It is the normal thing to be done.” The lawmaker added, “If the information is true that a committee was set up – that you set up; it was your committee – and they came up with the choice of someone. If you are not taking the person, naturally you should call the person. “In 2019, I supported Atiku and I was very happy with the way he ran. And I am aware that immediately after the primary, concerted efforts were made and that was how (Senator) Bukola Saraki became the director-general of the campaign. “In this one, offers were made and people pushed for Governor Wike as the vice-presidential candidate of the party. If you have any reason (not to pick Wike), you call him, and it should not be that he would be reminded by people like us before it is done. It is not too late to do the right thing and I am aware that certain efforts are being made already.”