…Criticises APC’s Muslim-Muslim ticket ABUJA – As political schemings for the 2023 general elections heighten, elders from the North-East geopolitical zone of the country have endorsed the candidacy of Mr Peter Obi of the Labour Party, describing his choice as the best Nigeria needs for now. The elders also denounced the All Progressives Congress (APC)’s Muslim Muslim presidential ticket, saying the action of the party would not enjoy their blessings as according to them, it did not promote equity and fairness in a diverse Nigeria. The elders who described APC’s action as the highest level of madness and an evil agenda in Nigeria reminded the promoters of the same faith ticket to go down memory lane to see if their action was in line with what the founders of Nigeria’s democracy preached and practised. Noting that Nigeria was a secular country that no religion should be elevated against others, the elders tasked APC to reflect on its action given that Nigeria of today had shifted from 1993 where such was promoted without any opposition. The North East elders, operating under the aegis of Coalition of North East Elders for Peace and Development (CNEEPD), told APC not to be comfortable with their action, saying the rigging which it was relying upon as party in government will fail them woefully as açcording to them, Nigerians would vote and safeguard their votes without fear or intimidations from APC’s hired agents. The group in a statement by its National Coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni, insisted that contrary to APC’s expectation, it would lose the presidential poll before 12 noon, adding that “indications across the country were not in favour of the party that had put Nigeria in its present bad situation.” The North East elders, also flayed the attacks being carried out on the facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the South East, attributing the developments to some sponsored terrorists outside the zone with the aim to deplete the South East voting strength. POLL The statement read in part: “As the 2023 general elections draw near, we the Coalition of North East Elders for Peace and Development has noted with concern some actions and statements by some political parties and actors in our democratic process. “The latest is the impunity orchestrated by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in settling for the same faith ticket in multi-religious, multi-ethnic and above all,multi-cultural countries like Nigeria and the party’s defence of the absurd action in the face of widespread opposition to the abnormalities. “As leaders who have not only monitored but also actively contributed to political developments in Nigeria for decades, we wish to categorically denounce the APC’s action which we view as inimical to the progress and growth of Nigeria. Without mincing words, we describe the party’s decision in fielding a Muslim Muslim ticket in the 2023 presidential election as the highest level of madness, insensitivity, and an evil agenda against our dear country which we have laboured for years to build. This decision which threatens the unity of the country does not have our blessings and must be resisted by all Nigerians of good conscience. Anything contrary will threaten the fragile unity and peace of Nigeria.” The elders added: “We wonder why a sane man and sane political party will contemplate and even go ahead to pick a Muslim as running mate to a Muslim candidate in a presidential election in a secular country like Nigeria at this modern age.” According to the group, “To make the matter worse, they picked Alhajji Kashim Shetima, a man whose alleged link with terrorism is still a subject of debate in the public domain.” Noting that, “This is a costly mistake that must be resisted at the poll by all Nigerians, irrespective of religion, tribe or ethnic background in the interest of peace,” the group said: “If this madness is allowed to see the light of the day, the unity and peace of Nigeria will be threatened forever. “How can someone try this in Nigeria? As it stands together Christians and Muslims have started supporting candidates based on religious lines, in mosques and churches across the country. This is not what we need now.”