ABAKALIKI – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Aspirant in the just concluded 2023 presidential primary, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, has hailed the immediate past Chief Justice of Nigeria, Muhammad Tanko,for taking what he described as the honorable path of voluntarily resigning from office as CJN. Ohuabunwa in a statement on Friday, noted that notwithstanding Justice Tanko’s health status, it was clear that his decision to throw-in the towel, was precipitated by the vote of no confidence passed on him by his colleagues. Ohuabunwa who is the immediate past President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria; and Convener of the New Nigeria Group, said Justice Tanko’s voluntary resignation, was the type of hourable behaviour that they canvass for the new Nigeria. He wished Tanko God’s healing and Peace in retirement. “The recent resignation of Justice Muhammad Tanko, as CJN is commendable. I congratulate him for taking the honourable path.” “His health status, notwithstanding, it is clear that his decision was precipitated by the vote of no confidence passed on by his colleagues. This is the type of hourable behaviour that we canvass for the NEW NIGERIA. “I wish him God’s healing and Peace in retirement,” he said. On the other hand, Mazi Ohuabunwa, congratulated Justice Olukayode Ariwoola for his emergence as the acting CJN and urged him to think seriously about how he wants his tenure to be remembered. -Advertisement- POLL He encouraged Justice Ariwoola to be bold in fighting corruption within the judiciary. He further urged the new CJN to attend to the lingering issues of judges welfare and above all work assiduously to make the judiciary not only independent but also seen to be the last hope of the common man. “Let me also, congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola for his emergence as the acting CJN. I employ him to think seriously about how he wants his tenure to be remembered. “I encourage him to be bold in fighting corruption within the judiciary. “I strongly recommend that he attends to the lingering issues of judges welfare and above all work assiduously to make the judiciary not only independent but also seen to be the last hope of the common man,” Ohuabunwa concluded.