The grand draws of the Get Alert in Millions Season 5 (GAIM 5) promo by Fidelity Bank are scheduled to hold early in the month of August 2022 where the winner of the star prize of N10 million will emerge with two runners up winning N5 million and N2 million each. The promo, in the last seven months, had transformed lives of many Nigerians. Bamidele Ogunwusi writes: Fidelity Bank, over the years, has demonstrated that it is being propelled by its vision to foster individual and economic development of Nigerians, especially its teeming customers and this is evident in the confidence reposed in the bank by the customers. The bank has also shown outstanding commitment towards helping Nigerians cultivate a sustainable and healthy savings habit and ultimately helping its customers live a financially sustainable lifestyle through life-changing initiatives. One of such initiative that has yielded outstanding results and benefits for everyday Nigerians is the Get Alert in Millions (GAIM) Campaign, which was launched in 2016. Launched primarily to reward loyal customers, the savings promo has continued to play a pivotal role in encouraging customers and members of the public to imbibe a healthy savings culture. Although the GAIM campaign is serving multiple purposes, a major feature is its life-changing impact on customers’ lives. When the bank, in November 2021 announced the introduction of a new savings campaign called Get Alert in Millions Season 5 (GAIM 5), not many believe that the bank was going to keep the promise because of the prevailing economic situation in the country but in it character of always “keeping its word”, the bank had used the promo to positively impact lives of many of its customers. The savings promo will run till end of July 2022 and will see customers cart away a total of N125 million in cash prizes in eight months through weekly, monthly, and grand draws. Seven months on, the savings promo has transformed the lives of 1,620 customers with various sums of money including 1,550 customers who have won N10,000 each in the weekly consolation draws and 70 customers who have won N1 million each in the seven monthly draws that have already been conducted. POLL In all, a total of N81.550 million has been won by customers of the bank so far. Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, the bank’s MD/ CEO, while speaking on the promo, pointed out that the campaign is the tenth in the series of savings promos organised by the Bank in last 15 years with the aim of incentivising its customers. Onyeali-Ikpe said: “The promo is one of the many initiatives of the bank specifically aimed at rewarding customers for their loyalty and patronage and we remain resolute to our commitment to enriching the lives of Nigerians, propagating a healthy saving culture and supporting the Central Bank’s mandate of deepening financial inclusion”, “We are elated at yet another opportunity to enrich and empower Nigerians with up to N125 million Naira cash prizes especially at a time like this. We are also thrilled at the savings culture this initiative will drive. Over the years, we have seen that many customers and hitherto non-customers have increased their savings by simply keying into the GAIM promo and we believe that this season will not be an exception.” Initiatives such as GAIM serve as a testament to the bank’s dedication to rewarding loyal customers and contributing to the Central Bank of Nigeria’s goal of financial inclusion. It is on record that the bank has doled out over N4.1 billion to 10,280 customers since inception. Dr Ken Opara, the Promo Chairperson and Executive Director, Lagos and South West, Fidelity Bank Plc, said the objective of the promo was to help customers develop a healthy savings habit and improve their well-being. Opara said: “As a partner in the success of our customers, we have also taken it upon ourselves to help winners in the GAIM 5 promo to make prudent use of their winnings. While the promo offers customers several chances of winning exciting cash prizes of up to N10 million, we have put in place a dedicated SME desk to provide investment advice to the winners and work closely with them to grow their wealth. “I would like to seize this opportunity to encourage those who are yet to open a Fidelity Bank savings account to do so as soon as possible for an opportunity to win millions. Simply visit our website, dial *770# on your phone, or go to the nearest Fidelity Bank branch to open an account, get a debit card and you could be the next winner in GAIM 5”. How to participate As the grand draws approach, the promo is still opened to existing and new customers. Osita Ede, Divisional Head, Product Development, Fidelity Bank, stated that the scheme is open to both existing and new customers of the bank with a minimum of N2,000 in any of their Fidelity Bank savings accounts. He explained that the bank has the “ticket approach” where every N2,000 in a customer’s account would be considered one ticket and urged customers to fund their accounts adequately to increase their probability of winning any of the mouthwatering prizes. Attestation Nkriru Onozo, Deputy Director, National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Lagos Zone, expressed her delight at how the bank has kept its word over the years. She said: “We have given our approval for this promo to run as we are confident that Fidelity Bank will continue to stay true to their promises. Having been a part of the last four editions of the campaign and seeing the successes recorded, we are enthused at the immense impact this edition will have on Nigerians and our economy at large. We will be here all the way to ensure all winners are duly rewarded.” Other agencies like the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and the Lagos State Lottery Board also commended the bank for running transparent draws. Testimonies The draws in the last seven months have been with testimonies by winners as they expressed their excitement while thanking the bank for being consistent and supportive in its bid to keep helping Nigerians to save more. As usual, the seventh monthly draw of the campaign which was witnessed by representatives of National Lottery Regulatory Organisation, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Lagos State Lotteries and Gaming Authority in Lagos and , saw Hillary Udekwere and Festus Tochukwu win N1 million each. Furthermore, the bank rewarded eight other customers across the country. One of the N1 million winners in the seventh draws, Hillary Udekwere, a businessman, said, “I am excited today because I am a million naira richer today. I thought it was fraud when I was called but when the calls were persistent, I went to the bank and now that I have received the money, I am fully aware that this is not a case of scam. “I also want to use the opportunity to thank the bank and encourage other artisans like me to save so that they can win just like I did”. A winner in the fifth draws, Ezeoma Christiana said, “I am so happy that I am N1 million richer today. It still feels like a dream because when I got the call from the bank, I felt it was just a scam but today I have seen the alert on my phone and I want to say I am grateful to God and of course the bank. Another fifth draws’ winner, Faruq Jimoh, a customer from the Orile Coker branch in Lagos, said, “I used to feel that getting this type of money would come when I am at least 35 years old but today I am 19 years old and I am a millionaire. I am urging youths to increase their savings in the bank just as I did”. At the second monthly draws, one of the winners, Stanley Okpoto said, “I am more than happy to receive this cash prize from Fidelity Bank. Being a long-time customer and follower of the bank, I feel special and grateful that as little as N2000 earned me so much money. I am looking forward to how this money will further transform my business. I encourage my friends and family to take advantage of this life-changing