LAGOS – Beaconhill Smile Clinic, the winner of the “Best Dental Service Provider Award,” 2022 Nigeria Health Excellence Awards (NHEA) will ever cherish the recognition. The company which had been a regular nominee year in, and year out at the annual event since 2016 till date carted home the prize as the “Best Dental Service Provider Award in this year’s award being the eighth edition. The NHEA is an initiative of Global Health Project and Resources in partnership with the Anadach group in the USA. The award, being an annual event is designed to celebrate distinguished personalities and healthcare organisations who have in no small measure contributed to the growth of the Nigeria Health sector. Beaconhill Smile Clinic is an emerging dental clinic, though currently located in Lagos but fast spreading its tentacles around the country for rendering world-class quality dental care and treatment for its teeming and valued patients. Dr. Oluwaseun Akinbobola, Chief Executive Officer of the Group is dedicating the award to its growing and valued patients globally, employees, friends, and well-wishers who voted. He described the award as a deserving feat for the company and a call to duty to do more. He commended his team for going beyond normal duty calls to achieve the feat and charged them not to relent in keeping up with the winning spirit for sustainability. The Group Head, Human Resources Mr. Abiodun Olofinkinle, ACIPM who led a team of six for the award ecstatically walked up to the podium to receive the landmark award at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos.In his remarks, he commended the organisers of the award for the lofty idea and innovation, stating that it will promote quality health care services in the Country. Beaconhill Smile clinic has some of its branches at the heart of  Victoria Island and its Exclusive Smile branch which was specifically set up in 2019 to cater to its elite clients with internationally trained local and expatriate dentists also located at Victoria Island. Exclusive smile is a first of its kind in West Africa where advanced dental services are rendered.The clinic services include routine dental care, orthodontics/ teeth alignment, restorative/fillings, tooth replacement, aesthetic/smile dentistry, oral/maxillofacial surgery, and Invisalign. Dr. Anthony Omolola, Chairman of, the NHEA Advisory Board, reiterated unequivocally that the award has come to stay and that it will halt medical tourism to the barest minimum while also attracting some of the best of Nigerian brains back home.