LAGOS To curb inaccurate diagnoses and better treatment outcomes in management of endometriosis, the African Endometriosis Awareness and Support Foundation, a coalition of support organisations in the continent has urged countries in Africa to implement effective policies for women who have the condition. According to them, this will significantly improve the lives of women living with endometriosis, particularly in terms of their access to appropriate care and support. Endometriosis advocates from around the world made the appeal in Lagos during the second international conference of the Coalition with the theme “Endometriosis – An Unrecognised Burden in African Women.” They argued for priority attention to the condition that affects 10 percent of the world’s female population. Dr. Abayomi Ajayi, the co-founder of the Support Group, said that the conference’s theme was contemporary and pertinent given the declining resources available to African nations, particularly in vital sectors like healthcare and education. Ajayi, the Medical Director of Nordica Fertility Centre in Lagos, Asaba, and Abuja, asserted that the Coalition’s main goal is to increase public knowledge about endometriosis. At the moment, the Coalition has active members in Botswana, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Kenya, South Africa, Ghana, and Nigeria. “One of the major concerns about endometriosis is its oftentimes inaccurate diagnoses, which is usually the result of a dearth in trained medical manpower, as well as obsolete equipment in many medical facilities across the African continent. “For the women living with this condition, life seems really unfair. The pain, the tough choices they have to make in determining if they will have children, their sexual life, relationship challenges, and general wellbeing should be of grave concern to all of us,” said Ajayi. POLL “We also believe that we will be able to attract the attention of African governments to initiate policies and programmes that will greatly impact the lives of women with the condition, especially in accessing care. We are also calling on the media to join forces with us to raise awareness about the condition and give a voice to the voiceless,” Ajayi to Daily Independent earlier at the press conference which heralded the event in Lagos State. In his talk titled, “High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) in the Management of Adenomyosis”, Ajayi made the case that during a fertility evaluation, it is important to focus more on making diagnoses. “HIFU is the non-invasive way of treating fibroids and adenomyosis. We are trying to look at the reproductive health outcomes for people who have had surgery for what they thought were fibroids. “The advantages are that it is a non-invasive day procedure that spares the uterus, and allows for normal vaginal delivery in future pregnancies. There is no general anesthetic, a faster recovery period, and non-ionising radiation which makes it repeatable, safe, and low risk of complication. He claims that as of last weekend, 136 individuals have received care at the Nordica Fibroid Centre, 20 of them had adenomyosis paired with uterine fibroid in addition to six who had just adenomyosis. The keynote speaker, Prof. Linda Griffith, a professor of Biological and Mechanical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared surgical and clinical advancements in an effort to comprehend the complexities of working with endometriosis patients in order to develop new treatments in her presentation titled, “Reconstructing and Deconstructing the Patient.” Endometriosis patient Griffith said that through her research, it was possible to categorise and treat patients in accordance with various molecular causes. She claimed that some of the techniques created to treat malignant tumors were also being used to treat endometriosis and that there was a dedication to getting novel medications into clinical trials. Contributing, Ms Kgomotso Mpho Gagosi, the co-founder, African Endometriosis Awareness and Support Group lamented the difficulties of managing endometriosis, including incorrect diagnoses. Still worried over endometriosis management in Africa, Gagosi further said, that her country, Botswana does not provide Invitro fertilisation (IVF). She also asked governments across the continent to take a more active role in formulating policies that will significantly enhance the lives of women with endometriosis through improved management.