… Uncover Baby Factory, Rescue Pregnant Women ASABA – The Delta State Commissioner of Police, CP Ari Mohammed has said that operatives of under his Command have arrested a number of suspects of various criminal activities even as they have foiled an initiation activity of the Black Axe Confraternity in the state. According to the CP, two suspected baby factory operators were also nabbed as Police while three pregnant women were rescued in the uncovered illicit baby factory. The Command also seized weapons comprising AK-47 Riffle and two locally made guns in the operation. The Command made this revelation in a press statement made available to journalists in Asaba, Delta State capital by the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe today being on the 14th day of July 2022 as the State Police Command stated that its operatives have arrested Thirty-three Suspects. It stated that on the 11th day of July 2022, a combined team of its operatives raided some criminal hideouts and arrested ten suspected Armed Robbers whom the Police said were planning to attack innocent citizens led to the recovery of some weapons such as AK-47 Riffle, Charms, Fake Vigilante I.D Cards, Black Axe Confraternity regalias and others at Mile 5 axis in Oshimili North Local Government Area. POLL Prior to the above, according to Delta State Police Command, on the 10th of July, 2022, the Command added that Twenty-five Cultists were also arrested during initiation activity by some group of AYES Confraternity who were nabbed by Joint team of State Anti-Cult (SACU), Ibusa Division who acted on intelligence reports as Police said Investigation is still ongoing. Also, that same day, 10th July 2022, the Police rescued three pregnant women as its operatives uncovered a Baby Factory at Obodogba Community, Okpanam. The reports said the two arrested suspects; 25 years old Promise Ejogu and 29 years old Aruna Suleiman, who were said to be operators of Baby Factor and the ring leader who engages women in sexual activities to get them pregnant, that the three different ugly incidents took place in three communities of Mile 5, Ibusa, and Okpanam all in Oshimili North Local Government Area of Delta State. The statement reads: “On 11/7/2022, the Area Commander Asaba received intelligence on some suspected cultists hibernating somewhere in Mile 5, a boundary between Oshimili North and Oshimili South LGA and planning to attack innocent citizens in the area”. “The Area Commander alerted the Commissioner of Police, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, who ordered a massive raid in the area. A combined team comprising of Raiders Squad, operatives from GRA Division and Area Command Asaba, led by the Area Crime officer, SP Kufre Udofia, stormed the hideout and arrested ten (10) suspects, recovered one fabricated AK47 rifle, charms, fake Vigilante ID card, and AC&DC black ice confraternity regalias. The investigation is ongoing”. “The Command gathered information that there is a baby factory located somewhere in Obodogba community, Okpanam. Acting on this information, on 10/7/2022, at about 0730hours, operatives of the State Investigation Department stormed their den in Okpanam community, Oshimili North LGA, and rescued three pregnant women, and two suspects; Promise Ejogu ‘m’ age 25yrs and Aruna Sulieman ‘m’ age 29yrs were arrested”. “One of the Suspects, Promise Ejogu, is a brother to the ring leader of the syndicate who engages in sexual activities with these women to get them pregnant. They are currently in custody while an effort is on to arrest the other members of the syndicate. On 10/7/2022 at about 0130hrs, The DPO Ibusa Police Station got information that men of Black Axe Confraternity, also known as ‘AYES’ , were having their initiation ceremony at Zion Road Ibusa”. “The Commissioner of Police directed a joint team of State Anti-Cult (SACU), Ibusa Division, and local vigilantes who swung into action raided their hideout, arrested twenty-five male suspects, recovered three Aye confraternity regalias, one military vest, a pair of aye confraternity stockings, three cut-to-size locally made guns, four live cartridges, a gallon of substances suspected to be liquid hard drugs, four vehicles, and four motorcycles Investigation is ongoing”.