Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, , who is in Tehran for a summit on the Syrian conflict, that a military assault on Syrian Kurdistan would destabilize the region, according to state television. According to the report, Khamenei stated that “any military strike on Syria will harm the region and benefit terrorists.” Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who will meet with his Russian and Iranian counterparts on Tuesday to discuss Syria, has warned that a fresh offensive against Syrian Kurdish fighters, which include the US-backed Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG), which were an essential component of an international coalition against the Islamic State jihadist group, may be launched soon. Top commander of US-backed Kurdish forces in Syrian Kurdistan on Friday urged Russia and Iran to prevent Turkey from launching a new attack in the country’s Kurdish north. General Mazloum Abdi aka (Mazloum Kobani), chief commander of the YPG-linked Syrian Democratic Forces, accused the international coalition of taking a “weak” position that is “insufficient to end the threats”. On Tuesday, Iran’s president will host his Russian and Turkish counterparts for talks on the Syrian conflict in a three-way conference overshadowed by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The summit is the first held by Iran’s ultra-conservative President Ebrahim Raisi since taking office last year, and Russia’s Vladimir Putin’s second travel overseas since ordering the invasion of Ukraine in February. Putin and Erdogan, who arrived in Tehran on Monday, will meet on Tuesday to discuss procedures for exporting grain from Ukraine, according to a Kremlin source. POLL “The date of this summit is not coincidental,” Russian expert Vladimir Sotnikov told AFP. “Turkey wants to launch a ‘special operation’ in Syria, exactly as Russia is doing in Ukraine,” he said. Ankara has conducted three incursions into northern Syria since 2016, seizing hundreds of kilometers of Kurdish land and pushing some 30 km deep into the country, in operations targeting mainly the U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish YPG militia. In 2016, the Turkish troops entered the Kurdish northern Syria in an area some 100 km east of Afrin to stop the Kurdish YPG forces from extending areas under their control and connecting Syrian Kurdistan’s Kobani and Hasaka in the east with Afrin canton in the west. In January 2018, Turkish military forces backed pro-Ankara Syrian mercenary fighters to clear the YPG from its northwestern enclave of Afrin. In March 2018, the operation was completed with the capture of the Kurdish city of Afrin. The flags of Turkey and Syrian rebel groups were raised in the Kurdish Afrin city and a statue of a Kurdish hero Kawa, a symbol of resistance against oppressors for all Kurds worldwide, was torn down. In 2019, an incursion into Syrian Kurdistan against the YPG drew widespread international condemnation, prompting Finland, Sweden and others to restrict arms sales to Turkey. Rights groups and displaced Kurdish families have accused Ankara-backed Syrian Islamic mercenary fighters of executions, home confiscations and looting in that border strip. The worldwide-respected PYD-led Autonomous Administration in Syrian Kurdistan has a secular decentralized self-rule, where equality between men and women, direct democracy, and environmental responsibility are emphasized. In 2013, the Syrian Kurdish Democratic Union Party PYD — the political branch of the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) — has established three autonomous Cantons of Jazeera, Kobani and Afrin and a Kurdish government across Syrian Kurdistan in 2013. On March 17, 2016, Kurdish and Arab authorities announced the creation of a “federal region” made up of those semi-autonomous regions in Syrian Kurdistan. Turkey on January 20, 2018 launched an operation against the YPG in the Kurdish canton of Afrin and on March 18, the Turkish troops supporting Syrian Islamic mercenary fighters drove the YPG out of Afrin city. On September 6, 2018, the Democratic Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria was proclaimed in Ain Issa. Since then, the Autonomous Administration has been responsible for implementing the model of democratic confederalism in the municipalities and regions in North-East Syria. The Kurdish Democratic Union Party PYD and its powerful military wing YPG/YPJ, considered the most effective fighting force against IS in Syria and U.S. has provided them with arms. The YPG, which is the backbone of the Syrian Democratic Forces SDF forces, has seized swathes of Syria from Islamic State. The Kurdish forces expelled the Islamic State from its last patch of territory in the eastern Syrian village of Baghouz in March 2019. An estimated 12,000 suspected IS members are still held in Kurdish prisons since 2019. So far over 11,000 Kurdish male and female fighters had been killed in five years of war to eliminate the Islamic State “caliphate” that once covered an area the size of Great Britain in Syria and Iraq.