Dumps APC LAGOS – Honourable Moshood Salvador has formally been unveiled as the gubernatorial candidate of the Labour Party in Lagos State, even as he officially announced his defection to the Labour Party in front of the ruling All Progressives  Congress (APC). The event took place on Wednesday and Salvador used the opportunity to intimate the public on why he chose to dump the ruling party for the Labour Party also called the third force. “I moved to the APC from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) because I divided that the main opposition party has never been ready to win elections in Lagos State. I had to move  to the APC because of my people. APC didn’t allow my people to benefit from anybody  so we moved to where my people can be recognized. The APC promised my people 100 jobs at the Lagos State  Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA), Lagos Waste Management Agency (LAWMA) and Neighbourhood Watch. “They also promised to give us commissioner and special adviser positions and none was respected. They also sidelined my people from ward, local government and state meetings,” he said. Salvador added, “APC didn’t recognize my people and so they came to me and requested that we moved to the Labour Party and the Labour Party has given opportunity to my people to  become candidates of the party at various levels. “About a month ago,  the people came to me and asked that I run as the governorship candidate of the party in Lagos State, and the substitution window given by the Independent Natonal ElectorL Commission  (INEC) as used to place Wynne as the governorship candidate of the party in Lagos State. As the next governor of Lagos State by the grace of God, the work has started now and the victory will cut across the entire country,” he added. On his chances of winning the Lagos State with bigger parties like the APC and PDP also vying, Salvador said, “is PDP still relevant in Lagos State? PDP doesn’t have votes in Lagos. We all know that Lagosians have rejected the APC. Let me tell you, the membership of the Conscience Forum in the APC is more than 300,000. Those we met in the party are suffering and smiling. They don’t have the welfare of the party heart at heart.  They are use and dump,” he said. POLL The Deputy National chairman of Labour Party, Alhaji Bashiru Lamidi Apapa appealed to members to help Salvador reach his climax, stressing that he is a poor man but only wants to further in service delivery so that he can help the people. “I welcome him to the Labour Party. The party represents family and the only place people will have progress. You must work for the success of the party because the people that you are going to face have stolen so much. If they give you money and you cannot resist, collect and still vote against them because it is your money and we must send them packing. “Peter Obi is our presidential candidate, you will vote for him, vote for Moshood  Salvador and all the other candidates. He added, “Go and collect your Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) if you have not done do already. We had series of opportunities in the and we lost them, so let us use this opportunity wisely. Don’t stay at home during campaigns,” he said. The National Publicity Secretary of the Party, Honourable Arambabe, urged the members to support the party and ensure that they campaign for all the candidates, stressing that Labour Party is the best platform to use to kick away looters from the corridors of power and eradicate slavery and poverty from the society. Stafe party executives led by Seyi Sorunmi and national leaders of the party, including the national legal adviser,  Akinbode Olalekan, National Financial Secretary, Gbenga Daramola, senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly candidates, were all well represented at the event.