ABAKALIKI – Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier-General Mohammed Fadah, on Tuesday, warned Corps Members against participation in the local politics of their host communities. Mr Fadah gave the warning at the closing ceremony of the 2022 Batch ‘B’ stream 1, Orientation Course held at the Scheme’s permanent orientation camp, Old Macgregor College, in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Represented by the Ebonyi State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs Bamai Mercy, the Director-General emphasized that participation in local politics was “a no-go-area” for Corps Members. He said: “Your letters of posting to Places of Primary Assignment will be handed to you soon after this ceremony. In this regard, I would like to remind you of your oath of allegiance in which you pledged to accept posting in good faith. I enjoin you to perform your duties with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and Bye-Laws as well as workplace rules and regulations. “In keeping with the objectives of the Scheme, you are expected to integrate into your host communities while also appreciating and respecting their cultures. I must, however, emphasize that engagement in their local politics is a no-go area for you.” Mr Fadah, however, charged them to undertake personal and group Community Development Service (CDS) projects that would help to uplift the living standard of the people of their host communities. While commending them for what he described as their impressive participation in the entrepreneurial trainings conducted in Camp under the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme, he encouraged them to build on the skills acquired by availing themselves of opportunities for post-camp training. “This will go a long way in empowering you for self-reliance. On our part, we are liaising with financial institutions and other stakeholders with a view to providing start-up loans to enable you to actualize your business dreams. I wish to assure you that Management will continue to explore avenues for optimizing the impact of the programme,” Mr Fadah added. -Advertisement- POLL The NYSC boss also urged the Corps members to be security conscious at all times, shun social vices, unauthorized journeys, avoid using social media to promote hatred, cybercrime and other act that could endanger their lives. “My dear Corps Members, as you proceed to your Places of Primary Assignment, I urge you to be security conscious at all times. You should avoid acts that can endanger your lives such as staying out late, attending night parties, visitation of dangerous places, and acceptance of car ride from strangers. “You can rest assured that Management remains committed to your security and general welfare. Accordingly, we are in constant liaison with security agencies and other stakeholders with the view to ensuring your safety as well as addressing other essential needs for a fulfilling service year. “At all times, you should be good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as your families and institutions of graduation. Therefore, you must be wary of acts that portray negative image of the Scheme, especially vices such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime and Advanced-Fee-Fraud. “Also remember that your membership of the Service Corps does not confer on you immunity from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. I, therefore, enjoin you to continue to be law-abiding while also serving as role models for the younger ones. “I urge you to avoid using social media for ethnic jingoism, rumour peddling and the promotion of hatred. Instead, your activities online should be targeted at self-improvement as well as the promotion of the unity, peace and prosperity of our dear country. In the same vein, avoid being speculative on issues affecting the NYSC and, instead, visit our website, social media platforms and other official channels for clarifications. “At this juncture, I would like to reiterate our warning against unauthorized journeys and night trips. Travelling at night will not only increase the risk of accident, but also make rescue difficult. You are, therefore, advised to always cut short your trips from six o’clock in the evening and pass the night at NYSC Lodges, military barracks and other locations officially designated as safe. Furthermore, you should board vehicles only at approved motor parks so as to avoid falling prey to criminals, “Mr Fadah said. To the Corps employers, the D-G said, “I consider it appropriate to once again appeal to Corps Employers to always accept Corps Members posted to them, and make the necessary provisions for their welfare. In addition, I urge you to mentor them properly to enable them develop their potential. I also call on other stakeholders, including State and Local Government authorities as well as traditional rulers, to give the necessary encouragement to the Corps members.”