 ABUJA – The Obi of Igbodo, HRH Barr. Ikechukwu Nkeobikwu Os­edume 1, and 10 others have been accused of assault, ma­licious damage, forceful take­over of land and threat to life with violence and conduct likely to cause breach of peace in Delta State. The petitioners, namely Mr. Udeze Onoha, Mr. Ken­neth Udeze and Mr Chidubem Udeze and the entire Udeze Family of Obi Royal Family, Ogbe Obi Quarters, Onicha, Ugbo Delta State, in a petition sent to the Inspector General of Police, IGP, Usman Alkali Baba, which was signed by their lawyer, Peter Mrakoor SAN & Partners, called on the IGP to urgently intervene in the matter to avoid loss of lives and property. The petition, dated 22nd June 2022 which a copy was made available to Saturday INDEPENDENT gave the names of the accused as HRH Barr. Ikechukwu Nkeobikwu Osedume 1, Mayor Azikiwe, Andrew Azikiwe, Nathaniel aka Nate (former Ezedibie Son), Chiemeka (The Ogene of Igbodo), Sunday Azikiwe, Donates Azikiwe, Aludy Aziki­we, Ifeanyi Okoh, Anyall Ben­jamin and Uche Offor. According to the petition­ers, their late father owns a vast expanse of land known as CHIEF V.U. ANIEMEKE FARMS located at Old Legos/ Asaba Road, Opposite St. Plus The Xth Grammar School, Onicha-Ugbo respectively; he planted cocoa, palm, ogbono, orange, mango, pineapple plantations and a big large game reserve with wildlife animals on the vast expanse of land. The petition reads in part, “Some years back, our client while still tender, the people of Idumu-Oze Quarters, Igbodo forcibly entered into the land, destroyed about 30000 standing and producing cocoa trees, over 25000 palm trees, 22000 ogbono trees, 45000 producing trees and over 11000 mango trees. Our clients’ late father instituted a matter before the high court and judgment was given in favour of our clients’ late father in suit no AG/16/74 Godwin lyeke & Anor V. Udeze Aniemeke on the 24th day of May 1977 by Justice F.O.N ATAKE (as he then was) “Recently, the above-men­tioned persons forcibly entered the land again committing grievous damages by pulling down the gate and taking same to the palace of the Obi of Ig­bodo HRH Barr Ikechukwu Nkeobikwu Osedume 1. “Our client and his broth­ers went to the Diokpa of Idu­mu-oze Quarters, Igbodo to reach an amicable settlement between both parties but our client and his brothers were any pursued with vigorous and dangerous weapons by the youth of Idumu-ose Quar­ters Igbodo, which our client and his brothers had no choice than to flee for their dear liver. -Advertisement- POLL “Subsequent on the above, our client sent one of his brothers by name Mr. Ori­kaze Udeze accompanied by surveyor to go and survey the land to ascertain the level of destruction carried out by the people of Idumu-Oze Igbodo. On getting to the land they were attacked by the same Idumu-oze people thereby causing grievous harm on their body, and also took hold of their motorcycle, motor saw, 20 liters of fuel, N50,000 cash at hand, tools box, 2 cutlasses and their mobile phones. “They went further to drag them to the Obi’s palace which in the midst of the whole event the surveyor was able to es­cape leaving Mr. Orike in the hands of Irumu Ore Igbodo people.”