Ikenna Ihejirika, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Linear Green Resources Limited, manufacturers of TopKleen herbal mouthwash, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks on the efficacy of the product, and why Nigerians should use herbal products. Excerpts: What does Linear Green Resources Limited do? We manufacture TopKleen herbal mouthwash, which is a combination of toothpaste, mouthwash and dental medicine formulated in one product. If you buy TopKleen dental mouthwash, you do not need to buy toothpaste and mouthwash separately because it performs both functions. If you have dental challenges, the product will resolve them in no time and you do not need to go and buy any dental medicine. TopKleen resolves issues like toothache, mouth odour and bleeding gum. It can also be used to whiten your teeth and it naturally removes stains from the teeth. For those that have holes in their teeth, it helps to kill the bacteria that cause the holes in the teeth. It was manufactured in a way that everybody that uses the product has more than one benefit. It serves as a wholesome product for the mouth. What gaps did you see in the market that led you to start the company and produce the company? POLL I discovered that many people have issues with their teeth and the products in the market were not able to take care of the challenges that many Nigerians have; so I conducted a research and came up with a product that is able to solve the problem. I found out many people have had some of their teeth removed by dentists and I wanted to put an end to that medical challenge. Some people have four to five teeth and some do not have any teeth at all; bacteria are the cause of tooth ache and decay and TopKleen has the capacity to kill the bacteria and prevent toothache and decay. What are the qualities of the product? The product also has the capacity to cure mouth odour; people are embarrassed and leave when a person with mouth odour talks to them. It is usually an embarrassing situation. I travelled abroad and did my research and I found out that it is not just a Nigerian problem; it is a global issue and I came up with TopKleen, which can take care of your dental issues. When did you start? I started the project in 2014. How has it been over the years? It has been good but the economy has been tough for everyone, especially for manufacturers like me. I made myself to be tougher than the economic environment and that is why I am where I am now. How have the people accepted the product? The reception has been good and has received numerous commendations by customers. We have got many referrals from users of the product. What separates the products from competition? It solves the dental issues that people have and it is the only product that does that in the market. What should the government do to make the environment conducive for business? The government should find the needs of manufacturers and entrepreneurs and meet them. We have the challenge of funding our machinery, rent and logistics. It should provide grants and low-interest loans to manufacturers and entrepreneurs. Electricity is a major challenge; we spend huge sums of money on diesel. We are not growing as fast as we should because we spend too much on fuel and logistics. What is your advice to young people? My advice to them is that they should be focused in the pursuit of their dreams.