Coaches in grassroots football and keen followers of the ongoing 2022 Governor’s Football Tournament in Bayelsa State christened ‘Prosperity Cup’ have applauded the management for involving foreign scouts in the competition. The coaches spoke on day one of the three-day second International Football trials for Under-17 players during the second break of the tournament to accommodate the scouting programme at the Samson Siasia Stadium in Yenagoa. A team of scouting officials from Europe-based FDC/VISTA GELENDZHIK are in the state capital for the scouting programme as part of the tournament. The team, which is led by the renowned FIFA agent, Ojo Omamomo, include Nikita Poliakov, Dmitri Churkin from FDC VISTA, national coach Kennedy Boboye and former international, Joesph Eyimofe. Speaking, the Technical Adviser of Bayelsa United Football Club and member of the Prosperity Cup technical committee, Diepreye Teibowei, said that “the concept of involving foreign scouts is novel and laudable.” He urged the players to make use of the opportunity provided by Governor Douye Diri-led administration, describing the programme as soul-lifting to young Bayelsans. The coach of Dream Boys, Football Academy of Odi, Gift Edike, said grassroots football cannot thrive without competitions like the Prosperity Cup, adding that the introduction of a scouting programme by the organisers had given hope to players and grassroot coaches. -Advertisement- POLL He commended the administration for providing the resources for the tournament and expressed satisfaction with the level of progress made in the tournament by the various participating teams. Also, the secretary of the Bayelsa State Football Association, Diseye Nwankwo, noted that this year’s edition of the Prosperity Cup had taken a more interesting dimension with the involvement of foreign scouts, creating opportunities for the young players to showcase their football skills. He expressed optimism that going by the quality of play so far demonstrated, the tournament would produce players that would feed European clubs. In an interview, the Head of scouting at FDC/ VISTA GELENDZHIK, Nikita Poliakov, urged the participating players in the trial to give their best as they are in Nigeria to identify budding talents they could pick to begin a playing career in Europe while combining football and education in one of the best football academies in Europe. Also, a member of the tournament’s technical committee, Ada Gwegwe, stated that it was the first time grassroots football competition had attracted foreign scouts since the creation of Bayelsa State.