For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ (1 Thessalonians 5:9, Matthew 5:10-12). The Day of the Lord – Joel 3:11- 16 God has appointed a day in which He will judge the whole world through Jesus Christ. The day is referred to as the “Day of the Lord”. Just as man could not read God’s agenda when Jesus was crucified, so he will not be able to understand God’s plan for that day. An uncountable army comprising of Godless men from every nation will gather with the intention to battle the Lord and his people. They will be gathering for the Judgement of the Lord. The thunder from the presence of the Lord is all that is needed to destroy the whole army. The Lord will be a refuge for His own people on that day. Have you prepared for that terrible day? (1Thessalonians 5:1-11). God has set a day when the entire human race will be judged and everything will be set right. 20 Reasons Why the Judgement Day Will Be Special 1. It is the day that God has chosen to see to the affairs of men; 2. It is the day to revenge for all the evil things men have done; 3. It is an unmerciful day; 4. It is a day God must be frank because He has been patient enough; 5. It is the day the father cannot save his family. 6. It is a day the Pastor cannot plead for his members; 7. It is a day of accountability; 8. It is a day you cannot deny all you have done, because there would be no mistake in the record of God; 9. It is the day of sorrow; 10. It is the day of visitation, God will take men unaware 11. It is the day God will give the sound and final judgement; 12. It is the day people will be ashamed of themselves; 13. It is the day that the secrets of all individuals shall be revealed; 14. It is the day that your inner mind shall be opened; 15. It is the day of no excuse; 16. It is the day men would say had I known, I would have changed”; 17. It is the day of trouble; 18. It is the day the whole world will fear the Lord; 19. It is the day you cannot turn black to red, that is, you cannot deceive God; 20. It is not the day of joy at all. Prepare for the Lord’s coming (Matthew 25:1-13, 24:36-44). The bridegroom is the Lord Jesus, coming to take his bride, the church. The foolish virgins have their lamps which make them appear as the light of the world for a while. They do not have the inner resources which will make their light shine until the groom appears. The wise virgins are not only concerned about shining their light for now, but took extra oil, which will make them continue to shine, until the groom appeared. Do you have the oil of the Holy Spirit? Which will sustain you until Jesus Christ comes. Therefore, people of God, live each day knowing that the Lord will come unexpectedly. Please pass this message to others. 1 Thessalonians 5:27.