Arsenal are plotting a move for Benfica left-back Alex Grimaldo with Mikel Arteta eager to add cover for Kieran Tierney. It is understood the Gunners are one of many Premier League clubs showing interest in the 26-year-old, who has impressed at the Liga Nos side since making the switch from Barcelona in 2016. He has gone on to become one of the best full-backs in the division, having scored five goals and chipped in with five assists in 25 games last season. The Spaniard is said to be available for around £6million with several top-flight clubs ready to pounce to sign the highly-rated defender. Arteta, meanwhile, is keen to bolster his back line ahead of the 2022/23 campaign and has been in contact with Grimaldo’s representatives over a potential move. Arsenal have been heavily linked with a move for Lisandro Martinez, but their potential deal is expected to fall through with Manchester United his preferred destination. The 24-year-old has requested to leave Ajax in the transfer window and wants to make the switch to the Premier League, although the Gunners have cooled their interest in the Argentinian international. Now, the Gunners have turned their attention to Grimaldo and Arteta believes he would be a valuable addition to the squad after making 247 appearances for Benfica over his six years in Portugal. Record has claimed that Arsenal have already reached out to the player’s agents as they look to agree a deal for the ex-Barca man. Grimaldo has one year left on his current contract with Benfica and they could be eager to sell him this summer to avoid losing him for free next year. The Gunners appear to be at the front of the queue in talks and see him as an adequate back-up for Tierney, who is back in training after suffering a knee injury back in April. The Scotland international was taken off in the 3-0 defeat at Crystal Palace and was forced to miss the rest of the campaign as Arsenal missed out on Champions League football. Arteta was forced to play Nuno Tavares at left-back, while Granit Xhaka and Bukayo Saka also filled in when required. It was a troubled area, though, with many teams exposing their weaknesses on that flank with no Tierney. This is not the first time that the Gunners have been interested in Grimaldo, however. They previously monitored his situation at Benfica in February 2019 but decided against a move. -Advertisement- POLL Arsenal have already made four signings this summer, with Marquinhos, Fabio Viera, Matt Turner and Gabriel Jesus all arriving at the Emirates Stadium. They are also in for another winger and possibly another full-back alongside Grimaldo with Aaron Hickey linked.