Okey Ibeke, is the Principal Consultant/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO), International Trade Advisory Services Limited (ITAS). He is also the Principal Consultant/CEO Blue-Waters. He spoke to journalists in Lagos, during the maiden press briefing of ITAS. ANDREW UTULU was there for DAILY INDEPENDENT. Excerpts: Briefly tell us about the organisation? International Trade Advisory Service Limited is an innovative indigenous branch established by highly trained and experienced professionals to provide technical and operational support on Customs, and other regulatory compliance matters for organizations that that engage in trade across international borders. Our team of experts provides assistance in interpretation of laws/regulations, product descriptions, harmonized tariff codes, valuation, rules of origin, post clearance audit and many more, for the resolution of all import/ export compliance and regulatory issues for our clients. We develop procedures, training modules and assessment programs to identify compliance defects, develop solutions and coordinate improvement implementation. We provide professional resources and broad skill sets for clients such as technical specialists, licensed customs brokers, logistics experts, project managers, accountants, lawyers, freight forwarders, and auditors. Our deep sense of commitment assures a win-win relationship with our clients and regulators in the international trade value chain. Our integrity and competence combine in qualifying us to deliver world class advisory services, backed by our long established relationship with Nigeria’s compliance, enforcement and regulatory agencies and the World Customs Organization. -Advertisement- POLL Aside advisory roles and services, do you also do mediation? Advisory is mediation, like I pointed out, if you are an importer, when you come to us, we look at your issues and give you technical support by writing to the Customs and telling the Customs that this is the way it should be. At times, we take our clients to Abuja. This is because, in some cases, you write to Customs at the Commands and Unit levels, they will say no, that you are wrong. At a stage, we will sit down to look at things with them, that is where the mediation comes in. So resolution of issues is part of the mediation. What is your assessment of compliance level at the ports and borders stations in terms of trade facilitation by the stakeholders? The compliance level is very-very poor. Poor in the sense that we all know the Nigerian factor. It is not peculiar to import businesses alone, it is spread across. If you go to the University, you will discover lack of compliance in issues of admission and grading. In fact, every other sector. But the issue is that in Nigeria, all these clearing agents and small importers you see that cry every day, saying that they(Customs and other security/enforcement agents), seized their containers, give them Debit Notes. It is issue of compliance. Import duty is assessed on value, quantity and quality. These are the key components of assessing import duty. Higher quality attracts higher value and higher duty. But, they will classify it to lower quality in order to cut corners. That is not even the issue. There are more serious non- compliance going on that people may not know. We have government priority projects, like power, petrol and so on, the rail project. When they want to do bill of quantity for those projects, they increase the quantity because they don’t pay duty. They bring in the materials, use the ones they need and sell the rest because they did not pay duty. These other importers see it and in their own small ways, want to cut corners also. So the compliance level issue low and the way to address it is re-orientation. National re-orientation. Government should tell the importers that we are injuring ourselves. This is because the essence of the import duty is to enable growth of the economy. To make the foreign goods more expensive and allow for the patronage of the local goods. There is this belief that no matter how compliant you try to be, Customs have ways of frustrating you in order to extort? From my experience in what I have handled, it is not true. There are companies like Nigeria Breweries, Chevron, and all these multinationals, that would not give anybody kobo as bribe. They don’t. This is because their compliance level is 100 percent. If you delay their goods, they will write petitions. Their compliance level is near perfection, though there could be little mistakes at times, but once they identify the mistake, they pay. Those people shouting that Customs is extorting them after they complied, tell them to bring their documents. Find out if there is no concealment, under-valuation, under-declaration. I don’t holding brief for Customs, because they are also corrupt. It is a complicated matter, for it to be resolved we all must sit together. How long did it take you to come up with the concept of ITAS and what are the challenges you faced before bringing it to a reality? Well, the issue is that I came into this industry, took my time to understudy the industry. I discovered opportunities, discovered the challenges. You know, any challenge needs a solution. The challenge is looking for a solution -provider. So, those challenges, those things I discovered, along the line, I realized that somebody needs to provide solution to those problems. For me to provide such solutions, I needed to acquire more knowledge. So, on my own, I started going for courses. I have been to Brussels four times. The World Customs Organisation (WCO), has schools in Brussels. I went there for certifications. This was part of preparing and arming myself for this vision. Before then, I was consulting for companies informally. At a stage, I had to formalize it. I called some knowledgeable partners to join me. So, we hope to grow. We run two companies here, Blue- Waters Maritime Resources, which is also a different company from International Trade Advisory Services Limited. 