Our country has, before our very eyes, snow­balled into something close to an irredeemable tragi- comedy. We are daily con­fronted with oddities which leave us astounded. Meaninglessness and chaos of tragic proportions have become our lot as we wal­low in pity and looming danger. We have become so inured to pain, fear and ill-omen that we can now poke our fingers into fire not minding whether we will get burnt. We seemed pro­grammed for doom. Ours has become a country where illogi­cally trounces logic and the bad subverts the good effortlessly as we spiral into the unfathomable. Many have framed the Nigerian narrative as that which was con­ditioned by a faulty foundation. Others think it is a leadership plague, while some think we are destined for perdition. Nothing seems to be adding up for our country. We have simply gone bananas. The ruling class has demonstrated monumental in­competence, lack of patriotism and insensitivity which in saner climes should earn its members their turns at the gallows. Nige­ria is too well endowed to be sub­jected to the present ordeals. We are assailed and traumatized and there seems to be no indication that reprieve is at hand. We are just going round in cycles of pain and hopelessness. The ongoing strike by mem­bers of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) speaks to the acute failure of Ni­gerian leadership deriving from lack of seminal patriotism and a deliberate attempt at nation-de­struction by those who rule and ruin our country. Education is globally considered as the pre­mier growth driver as no nation can surpass her human capital. Whatever made The First World what it is today is the quantum focus given to its human capital which only good education could make possible. While leaders in other countries place premium on education, Nigerian deal­er-leaders devalue and degrade it. Having destroyed the educa­tion fabric back home, the deal­er-leaders send their children to choice universities abroad to acquire what they destroyed and took out of the reach of the hoi polloi here. As I write, pub­lic universities have been closed for five months, while children of Nigerian public office hold­ers are graduating from univer­sities across the world. The so­cial media is always awash with pictures of children of the high and mighty graduating from for­eign universities at this time of the year. As the children of the down­trodden remain at home and groan due to the ongoing strike by university lecturers as a re­sult government’s irresponsi­bility, the ruling class is playing the ostrich with uninterrupted focus on the politics of 2023 elec­tions. For months, the aspirants wooed and toasted party dele­gates. None of them remembered that the universities have been closed down due to government’s failure. They are junketing from one state to another and hopping from platform to platform can­vassing for votes. Many of them purchased declaration of inter­est forms for as much as N100 million. They later embarked on a provocative buy-the-delegates spree which saw some of them spending as much as N20 million on each delegate. The delegates, whether they belong to the All Progressives Congress (APC) or the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) became the toast of the town owing to their new found financial fortune. All of these went on despite the sad reality that our children who constitute nearly seventy percent of our de­mography and touted as leaders of tomorrow remain at home at the instance of government’s failure. The tragic essence of our ex­perience was to play out a few days ago when a short skit made the rounds in the social media. I chose to caption the skit “del­egate tea vs. ASUU tea”. The words spoken by the speaker in Hausa were translated as fol lows: ”when you go to a tea sell­er (maishai) in Kano, he will ask you if you want him to mix dele­gate for you or ASUU. If you say delegate, he will fry eggs, milk, coffee and all the goodies, but when you say you want ASUU, he will give you Lipton without anything!”. The sick joke which painfully attests to our sorry con­dition, elicited so much laughter in the background. What the joke points at is a future that is hang­ing in the balance as a result of the contest between politics and education, personal interest and collective good, greed and ser­vice. The joke speaks to the lean and unfortunate times education has fallen into in Nigeria. Government at all levels will claim that there was no enough money to meet all sectorial needs. This is untrue. There is no enough money because those in government steal nearly ev­erything so that what remains could hardly go round for the common good. A leading citi­zen recently said that the mon­ey stolen by just fifty people in Nigeria was enough to turn the country around. The governor of one of the states considered most impoverished was accused of stealing N40 billion yet work­ers in the state were not paid for a year. Another state governor was seen wearing a wristwatch costing N450 million! Yet, govern­ment peddles the fib that there was no money to run the country. How come the other countries they send their children to have money to run well? The analogy between delegate tea and ASUU tea should tug at the heart of any reasonable and sensitive citizen. The truth that government shies away from is that Nigerian university lec­turers are the least paid in the world just as our universities are the most poorly funded. Cit­izens must initiate actions that should compel children of politi­cal office holders to attend public universities in Nigeria. Such a policy should also compel them to patronize only public health care facilities. Only then can we begin to get things right. Presi­dent Muhammadu Buhari most unpresidentially told ASUU that enough was enough in a manner that suggested that either the man was acutely insensitive or he was not alive to what is going on in the country. Instead of Buhari asking ASUU to call off the strike, he should be sacking his Labour minister, Chris Ngige and his Education counterpart, Adamu Adamu, who have both shown that they are not capable and fit for the exalted offices they are occupying. For those who are giggling over the comparison be­tween delegate tea and ASUU tea, they should realize that it is the future of Nigeria that is threat­ened. The earlier this is realized the better for us all.