Chidi Ugwu; Daniel Abia Abuja – TotalEnergies EP Nigeria Limited on Monday said it will stake more interest in gas, as up to 50% of its production of energy would be based on gas production going forward. Victor Bandele, the Deputy Managing Director of TotalEnergies, who stated this at the opening session of Nigerian Oil and Gas Conference (NOG 2022), in Abuja, said the move is part of efforts to support Nigerian government’s quest for diversification to cleaner energy. “As a global company, we projected productions and sales needs will change significantly by 2030. So we will be having up to 50% of Total Energies production of energy that will be based on gas, 35 percent of oil and 15 percent of electricity. That is total energies global and by 2015, the mix will be about 40 percent of renewable power, 40 percent gas and liquid production should be reduced to 20 percent. In Nigeria, we need to push more of the gas, we need to stake our interest in gas because it is the transition fuel for Nigeria and for Africa”, he said. Bamidele reiterated that TotalEnergies is willing to partner the government to actualise the ambition of diversification to cleaner energy, stressing that the company shall put more emphasis on gas development and do that in very pragmatic and deliberate means. -Advertisement- POLL “So we are going to put more emphasis on gas development and do that in very pragmatic and deliberate means. To achieve these objectives, there is a responsible approach to fossil energy. We will still produce oil and gas in Nigeria and Africa and the world. In fact, Total Energies wants to produce more oil and gas in the next five years than what we are producing today, so the only difference is that there is a more responsible approach to that by focus on value by selecting low cost developments that are most efficient in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, that is the responsibility part. We will promote increasing the company in our energy mix with deliberate gas developments and we will be investing significantly in electricity and other renewables. We are representing energy growth”, he added. Earlier, Engr. Simbi Wabote, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB), said this year’s edition of the Nigerian content seminar will focus on the seventh ministerial regulations officially gazetted by the Federal Government last year. According to him, the regulation provides for the minimum standards, facilities, personnel and technology for trading in the oil and gas industry. The NCDMB boss said the regulations seek to provide a framework for monitoring the implementation minimum standards for training in the oil and gas industry and achieve outcomes regarding the skill and experience and exposure of personnel.