Kevin Eze, the founder and Chief Executive Officer of African Food Network, an online portal that promotes African food and cuisine, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, called on the government to make the business environment friendly to entrepreneurs and startups. He also spoke on other issues. Excerpts: How would you describe the business environment in Nigeria? Nigerians have never seen this level of hardship in the country before; the economy is crumbling and people are becoming poorer. There is no power supply, there is scarcity of fuel and many businesses are shutting and the unemployment situation is worsening. The naira is depreciating at a very fast rate and inflation What steps should the government take to make the environment better for individuals and businesses? It should fix the foreign exchange regime because the country depends on imported materials; foreign exchange affects many things; almost everything we buy in the country is imported. I believe the government should start implementing policies that would increase the value of the naira against the dollar. If the governments implement policies that will make the naira appreciate, it will positively affect the lives of millions of people. POLL The government also needs to fix infrastructure and make better decisions that will affect the lives of millions of people positively. It should start tackling the issues of forex, and electricity. Fixing the power supply and ensuring that it is stable will do a lot of good to the economy. It should ensure effective guidelines for importation and distribution of petroleum products. It should tackle the issues that affect a majority of Nigerians rather than focus on the ones that affect a section of society. The government should create a transportation chain that will enable people to do business. Nigeria needs to start talking about ease of doing business in Africa because it is difficult for business owners to navigate across Africa to do business. We need to bring the government close to the people and solve challenges in society. The government should resolve the strike by university lecturers because the nation is losing and students are being subjected to mental stress as they continue to stay at home knowing that their counterparts in other countries are moving forward. What is your advice to business people? They just need to keep striving and doing their best; the system is not making it easy to do business in the country. As business owners, we suffer as the prices of products and services increase. We cannot plan because prices are not stable. Many of the things that are moving in the country are privately owned and Nigerians are at the mercy of private businesses, which increase prices every time. However, we have to bear in mind that the only way businesses can strive is to increase the prices of goods and services if they buy at higher prices.