ENUGU – A pressure group, Power Shift 2023, has thrown weight behind the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), in Enugu State, Honourable Frank Nweke. The group described Nweke as the best candidate for the position saying he is the only candidate with a wealth of experience that can take Enugu state to the height it deserves. The group who stated this in a statement made available to journalists in Enugu on Wednesday by its convener, Nonso Nnamani promised to mobilise 100,000 voters for Nweke It said “We have analyzed all the Enugu state gubernatorial candidates, and have come to the conclusion, that amongst all the flag bearers, Hon. Frank Nweke II, is someone we would solidly stand by and recommend to be the next Governor of Enugu State. “He is the candidate representing the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Enugu, a two-time Federal Minister in Nigeria and the former Director-General, Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG). “Hon Frank is an ethical, exemplary and proven leader with over two decades of success in career roles that have traversed the public, private and civic sectors. He has a well-known commitment and dedication to accountability which will promote an atmosphere of transparency and accountability in Enugu State. A Frank Nweke-led administration will be filled with a new breed of young persons in government, of this, I have no doubt. “His passion for entrepreneurship and good Investment stands him out for the new system that will stimulate job creation and development in the State. Being a leader with an innovative mindset, Frank’s antecedents proves that he’s someone who will not only promote technological advancement but will also help to invite foreign investment that will help the economic advancement in our dear state. “Prior to being made the Chief of staff in Enugu state, Frank Nweke was the state coordinator of Community County Council (CCC) and it was in this role that he came up with the rural development plan, Poverty Alleviation Initiative in the Chimaroke administration that helped alleviate poverty in the rural communities of Enugu, and we trust that with him in power, there will be an implementation of that scheme on an even larger scale for the people of Enugu State. -Advertisement- POLL “The World has gone digital and here is a government to ensure that Enugu State is not left behind. This will not only include Youths in activities involving the development of the State but also an active engagement and public participation in the transformation of Enugu State. His voice, wisdom, experience, capacity, and articulation are needed for the emergence of the new Enugu State. “We believe will be a dramatic improvement in Enugu State with Frank Nweke in power. “We are choosing to stand with Frank, we are endorsing a candidate with years of proven integrity and capacity, We are making a choice for a new and better Enugu, We are committed to mobilizing 100,000 voters, and we encourage everybody who has the vision of a new and better Enugu to join us and let us make this dream a reality,” it said.