Nigeria is the largest market in sub-Saharan Africa with population of over 200 million growing at 3 Percent annually. The Nigeria’s economy grew by 3.6% in 2021 from a 1.8% contraction in 2020, underpinned on the supply side by 4.4% expansion in the non-oil sector against 8.3% contraction in the oil sector; non-oil growth was driven by agriculture (2.1%) and services (5.6%). The economy of Nigeria advanced by 3.11% from a year ago in the first quarter of 2022, following a 3.98% rise in the prior period. This marks the 3rd consecutive quarter of slowing growth. The non-oil sector expanded by 6.08%, faster than 4.73% in Q4, driven by good performance in information and communication (12.07% vs 5.03% in Q4), primarily telecommunications (14.50%); trade (6.54% vs 5.34%), financial and insurance (23.24% vs 24.14%); agriculture (3.16% vs 3.58%) and manufacturing (5.89% vs 2.28%). However, the oil sector plunged 26.04%, after an 8.06% slump in the previous quarter, reflecting lower oil output as the average daily crude oil production stood at 1.49 million barrels per day, down from 1.50 mbps in Q4 and 1.72 mbps a year ago. Nigeria has struggled to meet its production targets due to operational challenges and insecurity amid growing crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism. On a quarterly basis, the GDP shrank 14.66%. Petroleum powers of the country‘s economy and petroleum exports account for 20 percent of GDP, 95 percent of total export earnings and close to 85 percent of Federal Government revenue, according to Global Agriculture information network. With her population, Nigeria provides a large and attractive retail food sector. POLL The major traditional Foodstuffs consumed by majority of the population including, corn, cassava, rice, sorghum, beans, vegetables, tubers, and seafood (fish) are predominantly unprocessed and/or semi-processed. However, changing demographics and lifestyles are resulting in increasing consumer preference for wide range of convenience, processed and packaged as well as nutritional foods. These are assisting Nigeria ‘s retail food sector to expand, as a result food processing and packaging has become a good business venture to go into for both local and export markets. The Food Transformation Result The traditional open-air markets, although remain the dominant channel for Nigeria‘s retail food sales, the country‘s retail food sector has been undergoing change over the last decade with international Supermarket brands entering the country; gradual improvement in the power sector, new malls being constructed according to international standard and the steady transformation of informal markets into more formal and modern facilities are setting new bars by providing a wide choice of shopping experiences in a modern, customer-oriented, building. Any food that are consumed in Nigeria can be processed and packaged for local and international consumptions, such as, cassava, yam, plantain, Rice (local foreign) beans, soya beans(grains powder) crayfish, paper (sokoto, nsukka) potatoes (Irish/local) okpa,Gari(ijebu,Ngwa,Benue&Edo) Palm oil, okro, dry pepper. Some of the machines used can be fabricated locally. A good testimony of an indigenous processing and packaging company is Ayoola Foods Limited, 042 concept food hub producer of 042-Okpa, Ose Nsukka and others. They commenced business with few products, today they have wide range of products which include flowers, nodles, sugar, salt,Poundo Yam, Yam Flour, Cassava Flour, Plantain Flour, Beans Flour, Brown Beans and Cassava Fufu among others. All their products are duly registered by National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), and consumed local and internationally. Food Stuffs Packaging Requirements • Location of business area, you have to consider some factors while locating your business, power supply, raw material, storage facilities, market and the land should be up to 1000 squarmeters. You can as well use a two-room space provided you have another place where you keep your raw materials. • Factory building which must be standard and inline with regulatory bodies’ specifications. • Business registration (cooperates affairs commission, Nigeria Export Promotion Council, Standard Organization of Nigeria/National Food, Drug Administration and Control, local government) • Equipment (Flash dryer, packaging machines, grinding machines, weight machines, packaging bags) all these depends on the type of foodstuff you want to package. • Motor vehicles for distributions of products optional • Storage facility Profitability The return on investment in this business is quite attractive and impressive. But, you are advised to process or package only locally sourced foods to avoid high overhead cost. As Dollar rate to Naira is becoming higher every day and cost of Agro-commodities are on increase in the market. People are now patronizing locally processed food. Food processing is all about adding value to raw food before export NOTE: You can just focus on packaging only by buying processed products and package such as rice, beans, gari, plantain flour, sweetpatatos/Irish flour for export. Packaging solution is now available such as packaging materials Laminated sack bag of different kg, Nylon bag .