Otunba Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland, the People’s Democratic  Party (PDP) Lagos West Senatorial candidate has drummed support for the joint ticket of Dr Olajide Adediran also called Jandor, the gubernatorial candidate of the party and his running mate, Funke Akindele in the 2023 general elections. Aeroland who called on the party faithful and Lagos residents to support the duo, made the call on Thursday while reacting to the announcement of the actress popularly called Jenifa as the running mate to Jandor. Recall that Funke Akindele was one of the five nominees submitted by the Lagos PDP flag bearer, to the party’s deputy governorship screening committee in Abuja. Expressing his confidence in the joint ticket, Aeroland stressed that Akindele’s pedigree as a youth and women advocate aside from running a successful business from the scratch makes her a valuable asset to Jandor and the PDP. He noted that the Jandor/Akindele ticket is a combination of wits, vigour, youthfulness and enterprise. The former Lagos State PDP Chairman also pleaded with aggrieved members of the party in primaries and the deputy governorship nomination to embrace peace and work for the unity of the party. He, therefore, urged them to accept the olive branch offered by Jandor in his statewide broadcast, noting that sacrifices would have to be made to move the party forward ahead of the general elections in 2023. Aeroland added that there is still a window of negotiation and reconciliation between the aggrieved aspirants, Jandor and the party on the other hand. POLL While promising to partake in all efforts at reconciling the party members, he noted that as a strong advocate of consensus, he is opposed to a ‘winner takes all situation’ The Senatorial candidate further stated that the next stage of politicking requires all hands to be on deck to defeat the monstrous All Progressives  Congress (APC) that has held the state and its resources by the jugular. While expressing his confidence in the party winning the general elections in 2023, Aeroland stated that the ruling APC”s poor performance has bolstered the PDP’s chances to sweep the polls next year.