 ABUJA – The National Chairman of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Engr. Yusuf Yabaji, has expressed fears that Nigeria may lose its democracy soon following the actions of politi­cians and other stakeholders. He also said that the up­coming 2023 general elections may not prove the wishes of Nigerians, as he disclosed that incidents of delegates buying during the primary elections of some political parties show pol­iticians’ desperation to thwart the mandate of the electorate. In an interview with Daily Independent, Yabaji equally revealed that the inability of security agencies “that are trained and specially paid to stop such practices,” to do the needful, portends grave dan­ger for the upcoming polls. This is as he lambasted the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies which reportedly arrested per­sons involved in vote-buying at the Ekiti State gubernatorial elections of failure to prose­cute the culprits. Yabaji stressed, “Look at what happened during the pri­maries of some of these par­ties. If outsiders are able to say that money exchanged hands, dollars were given, people were bought over, and agencies em­ployed, paid, trained to discover some of these things, and they said they couldn’t see anything. These people are paid every day, they are well taken care of and they have been trained repeatedly to do nothing but to discover where such crimes have been committed and nip it in the bud or arrest those that were found wanting. And these agencies didn’t say anything. It is another way of saying it is business as usual.” He regretted that by delay­ing to prosecute those caught buying and selling votes at the Ekiti elections, the secu­rity agencies have denied the country the justice it needed. According to him, “This is a crime against Nigerians, against the future of this country and a crime against humanity. It is not necessarily a crime against the other party that was denied their victory. Theirs is just a onetime loss that they can recoup whatever they have lost but the country cannot recoup. -Advertisement- POLL “What it means is that the country is retrogressing and dangerously moving towards anarchy because if you contin­ue to have people that have no empathy and sympathy, and that believe that it is a mercan­tile system, then danger looms in the near future.” The IPAC national chair­man further called on Nigeri­ans and stakeholders to inter­rogate the sources of wealth of politicians ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is as he expressed fear that Nigeria could lose its de­mocracy, noting that “people’s confidence in this system of government is continuously been degraded day by day if you look at the economic, security and even the unity situation of the country itself. It gives one serious concern.” On the chances of opposi­tion parties in the general elec­tions, the Action Democratic Party’s (ADP) chieftain called for collaboration, insisting that “we must close ranks to see how we can achieve pos­itive change. And positive change means that we are not going to continue to do things the same way.” He disclosed plans by oppo­sition parties to field a presi­dential candidate they believe can win the poll, adding that IPAC is doing everything it could to create the needed harmony for cohesion among political parties.