ENUGU – Labour Party, Enugu State Chapter, has frowned against the rumor circulating in the town that Hon Chijioke Edeoga has withdrawn from the gubernatorial race. According to a statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on Friday by Comrade Ibuchukwu Ohabuenyi Ezike, Labour Party Publicity Secretary, Enugu State. He said “Our attention has been called to fictitious rumours doing their rounds and alleging that Rt. Hon. Barr. Chijioke Jonathan Edeoga is either no longer the Candidate of our party for the 2023 general elections in Enugu State, or that his candidature has not been approved by the party. “Labour Party wants to confirm to our teeming members and supporters that Rt. Hon. Edeoga is the Governorship Candidate of the Labour Party in Enugu State for the 2023 general elections. We are neither discussing with any other aspirants for this position nor is his candidature having any hitches at all.” “We are well aware that since the announcement of Barr. Edeoga as the Party’s Flag Bearer for the 2023 Governorship elections in the state, efforts have been on gear by different entities and groups who are rattled by his emergence to cause confusion among our members and supporters and deceive them. “Labour Party, Enugu State, is issuing this press statement to clarify this issue and to urge our members, supporters and the critical public to completely disregard the rumours and such untrue publications about our party and its genuine and non contentious Candidate for the 2023 general elections in the State.The Labour Party appreciates ndi Enugu nay Nigerians who have been trouping out in their millions to join the Party and who have been promoting our programmes and the Presidential Candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, and other candidates of the Party at all the levels. “We all are in this Movement to work together to rescue our country from those who have held her hostage since 1999 and have used such opportunity to keep our people in this beggarly, shameful and poor conditions in the midst of plenty. “The Labour Party assures Nigerians that there is huge hope for us come 2023 when our Party shall takeover Nigeria from the APC government to begin to reposition her among the comity of nations in world and the Voice of the African Continent,” he said