Mr Ali Musa, the desk officer of the United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF), said that UNICEF in collaboration with the Nasarawa State Government has successfully returned 10, 353 out-of-school pupils back to school in two Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. He made the disclosure during an engagement with the media at the Ministry of Education in Lafia the state capital. Mr Ali, the UNICEF desk officer said the coronavirus pandemic had ravaged and is still ravaging the economy of so many nations thereby leading to the loss of jobs by parents and causing the children to drop out of school. He explained that UNICEF came up with the back-to-school initiative to help return those who drop out because of the effect of COVID-19 and other reasons. According to him, “We feel it is important we come up with the project which is currently being implemented in many states including Nasarawa State to help children get back to school and secure their future”, he added. He added that the project is currently being implemented in 370 Primary Schools in Lafia and Nasarawa LGAs. “Out of the 205 Schools in Lafia and 165 Schools in Nasarawa LGAs, 6, 116 male and 4, 237 female children were returned back to school under the project,” he added. He also explained that the team would not rest until every child that is supposed to be in school in brought back and appealed to the media to continue to support them to achieve the objectives of the project. POLL Also speaking at the media dialogue, Haj. Fatu Sabo, Commissioner for the Ministry of Education in the state said the government had since keyed into the initiative by UNICEF to ensure that every child of school-going age in school. The Commissioner who was represented by Abdulkareem Bala, Director of Planning, Research and Statistics at the ministry explained that the initiative was in line with the priority of the Gov. Abdullahi Sule-led administration to improve school enrolment of children, especially in rural communities. Bala, therefore said that the government was ready to collaborate with any group working to complement its effort by adding value to the quality of life of its citizenry.