Four vehicles were crushed by a heavy truck on Sunday in Abuja, close to the busy Abuja-Nyanya Keffi Expressway’s Karu Bridge. Our Correspondent gathered that the multiple-crash collision caused severe traffic on the road. The Federal Road Safety Corps and the Nigeria Police Force Karu Division troops arrived at the scene of the collision quickly and directed traffic to a parking lane. However, the Federal Capital Territory Sector Commander, FRSC, Mr. Samuel Ogar Ochi, responded to the incident by explaining that no one was injured and that the accident happened about 9:30 a.m. According to him, “Those that sustain injuries were rushed to the hospital for treatment. ” The Unit Commander of FRSC and some of our personnels were at the scene of the crash. Actually our truck is on it way to remove the wrecked on the road but nobody die. ” They will clear the road, they have diverted traffic from the main road to parking lane. FRSC Ambulance has evacuated the injured persons to Asokoro General Hospital, Abuja for treatment.” Meanwhile, Comrade Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister, on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, said the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) was not comfortable with the happenings on that road. -Advertisement- POLL According to him: ” Since the road is almost completed and with the smoothness of the road you will recalled that the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has spoken to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing to ensure speedy completion of the road. ” And see after the road was completed, the speed by drivers on the road is worrisome and the rate of accident involving trailers is getting very disturbing. ” If you observed on Saturday, July 2, just 24 hours ago we had a multiple accident involving Truck and Sheron vehicle and now this Sunday morning we are experiencing this disturbing one again. ” We thank God no life is loss,” Attah said. Attah, however, called on truck divers to put their truck in order and ensure that if they notice any wrong with the truck as they decend from Abacha Barracks, they should quickly stop and parked. He enjoined truck drivers to always move slowing while descending from Abacha barracks to Kugbo down to Karu and Nyanya. He insisted that all the truck flying the everbusy Abuja-Nyanya Keffi Express way must be in a very good condition.