The Delta State Government on Wednesday night unveiled the official mascot and logo of the 21st National Sports Festival (NSF) scheduled to hold between November 2 and 15, 2022. The chief host, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa was in the company of other top sporting personalities including the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, Nigeria Olympic Committee(NOC) President, Engineer Habu Gumel, Speaker of the Delta House of Assembly, Rt Hon. Sherriff Oborevwori, former Delta State Sports Commission Chairman, Chief Solomon Ogba as well as members of the State Executive Council and other top Government officials at the event held at the Government House in Asaba. In his opening remarks, the Chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC) Chief Patrick Ukah, who doubles as the Secretary to the State Government(SSG), noted that the unveiling of both the mascot and logo of Delta 2022, shows the readiness of the State towards hosting a successful event in November. Tagged ‘Uniting Nigeria, inspiring a new generation’, Ukah said Delta 2022 would go down in history as the best organised and most economically viable Games in recent history with the array of sponsors that have already aligned with the event. Sports Minister Dare eulogised Governor Okowa for his total support for sports over the years, adding that, “Nigeria is finished should Delta State be taken out of her sporting equation.” Dare said Delta has done so well for Nigerian sports over the years and hopefully the State would be ready to host the next edition of what he called ‘Nigeria’s Mini- Olympics’. -Advertisement- POLL Governor Okowa said Delta State is happy to bring home the sporting extravaganza it has dominated over the years. ”Of course, we want competitors but we are sure of winning even here at home. We are going to put in our best, and at the end, we would show that truly, ‘Delta no dey Carry Last’.” The official mascot is called UZO and symbolises Delta State’s physical power, strength, ferocity, focus, and willpower to continue to dominate in the world of sports.