LAGOS – The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) with the support of the Pro-Poor Growth and Promotion of Employment (SEDIN) programme of the German Development Agency (GIZ) have launched business entry guides to facilitate access to information for intending and existing entrepreneurs in Lagos State. The guide was launched in partnership with the FATE Foundation for Plastic waste recycling, poultry and fashion value chains in the state. Akinropo Omoware, Head Policy Strategy and Component, GIZ-SEDIN, appreciated the partners for making the event happen. He said that the programme works at different levels to ensure that the constraints that businesses face are reduced. According to him, “if we must tackle the issue of unemployment we must ensure that the MSMEs grow or ensure that the unemployed start up business for themselves. We need to invest not just money but making sure that the business environment is right for businesses to scale,” he said. Sheila Ojei, Director, Strategy, Funding and Stakeholder Management, LSETF said that the booklets serve as a practical guide for start-up/ early stage businesses in Lagos State. She said entrepreneurship has significant socio economic impact on national growth and development particularly with respect to job creation and income generation, adding that in Nigeria, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) play a substantial role. She said there was a need for entrepreneurs to be aware of which laws and policies to comply with. -Advertisement- POLL “Laws and policies are very important as they can make or mar any endeavour, people, or nation. Complying with laws, policies and regulations by start-up or early stage businesses can be daunting as they are either not aware of these legislations and regulations or they do not know how to go about the required provisions and processes. Ojei noted that it is hoped that more entrepreneurs will get information with this, create more business and solve the problem of unemployment in Lagos and Nigeria at large. Oluchi Johnson -Achibiri, Digital Product Manager, FATE Foundation said Lagos has about 3.2million MSMEs residing in the state. On why it is focused on these three sectors, she said these are sectors that have high propensity for job creation and that it was approached from four key sections. She said fashion has grown in size and sophistication and that it has different subsectors; from formal, children wear and among others. She noted that the country is lacking behind in tapping opportunities especially in the areas of ready to use wares and mass production. On recycling, she said Nigeria generates 32million tons of waste daily and plastics accounts for 32 percent of the waste. On poultry she said Nigeria is the biggest producer of eggs and second in chicken production in Africa, that the country is currently meeting just up to 30 percent of demand and this shows there is still a huge opportunity for new entrants into the sector. She said that the guide has a workbook at the end to help entrepreneurs understand it by going through some work. Adetutu Oshosanya, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives while speaking said the guide is an initiative that is long overdue. “We are also looking at how we would have a database for MSMEs in Lagos state that at a click we would have relevant information that will guide potential investors, entrepreneurs and policy makers in the space.