Abuja – The National Examinations Council (NECO) on Monday said it has not scheduled any examination for Saturday, July 9, 2022, in the ongoing Senior School Certificate Examinations (SSCE) for school-based candidates. According to NECO, its position was contrary to insinuations that it had scheduled examination for July 9, 2022, which is Sallah Day (Eid- Adha). The council was reacting to an earlier appeal by a Muslim organisation, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), which had on Sunday in a statement urged NECO to reconsider its position. In his statement on Sunday, MURIC director, Ishaq Akintola, a professor of Islamic Studies at the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojoo, said the organisation acknowledges the fact that NECO was not deliberate in its decision. “We are fully aware that the clash was not deliberate as NECO had actually demonstrated goodwill by setting aside a whole week for Sallah celebrations (Monday, 11th July to Friday 15th July) and this reflected in its timetable. “We, therefore, appeal to the NECO authorities to kindly shift the examination of that day alone (Saturday 9th July 2022) to another date in order to enable its teeming Muslim candidates to sit for their examinations”, he said. But in its reaction on Monday, NECO in a statement issued by its Head of Information and Public Relations, Azeez Dani, said the council being conscious of the importance of religious festivals, has always made adequate provision for such when fixing examination dates. NECO said it has given a whole examination free week, beginning from Friday, 8th July to Wednesday, 13th July, 2022 in the on-going Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school based candidates to enable Muslim faithful have enough time to celebrate the festival. -Advertisement- POLL “The council has given a whole examination free week, beginning from Friday, 8th July to Wednesday, 13th July, 2022 in the on-going Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school based candidates to enable Muslim faithful have enough time to celebrate the festival. “It would be recalled that the 2022 Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school based candidates commenced on 27th June, and will end on 12th August, 2022”, he added. The 2022 Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school based candidates commenced on June 27, and will end on August 12, 2022.