P/HARCOURT – The Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the 2023 elections, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been assured of an overwhelming victory in Rivers state. The former Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi who made the promise in Port Harcourt, Rivers State urged thousands of party faithfuls in the state to work for the party in the forthcoming presidential election and ensure Tinubu clinches victory. Amaechi made the call at the state APC secretariat, shortly after scores of supporters thronged the Port Harcourt International Airport to welcome him and also escort him to the state party office. The former Transportation Minister who promised to be on ground to ensure the victory of the party in the state, charged APC members irrespective of their grievances, to go back to their various units and work for the party. “Please, the contest for the presidency, we should know that we must go and vote for our party, no matter how angry you are, they have chosen, let’s go and vote for our party. For the stories you are hearing, about the people who are gossiping how they are having meetings in France, let this be your own France. Vote for your party, don’t be afraid, just go home and do your work. “Don’t be afraid, go home and work, that’s why I came, I came to thank you, I came to urge you to go home and work, let all of us be unit leaders, no more local government leaders, ward leaders. If you check INEC, they are no longer announcing ward results, they are announcing unit results. So let go home and win our units and bring our units home. “Those days of meeting, writing results have all gone, we must praise INEC, praise the National Assembly for reducing the level of rigging, where people write results and INEC will just announce, now it is almost gone.” Speaking earlier, state APC governorship candidate, Tonye Cole, assured party supporters that the party would be on the ballot come the governorship election in Rivers. -Advertisement- POLL “My mission here is three-fold, one to reassure you that we will be on the ballot, number two, that there is no court case that we will lose because God is on our side, number three, we have won already. “Why have we won, because at the grassroots, we are number one, number two, on every ballot, we are number one, number three, we serve a God that is number one.”