ABAKALIKI – A section of the popular Eke Market in Afikpo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State has been razed by fire, destroying goods worth millions of naira. The fire incident occurred late hours of Tuesday, but no life was lost. Circumstances surrounding the fire incident were unknown as of press time. The youths of the Area were said to have mobilized and stopped the fire from escalating. Chairman of the Council, Barrister Oby Oko Enyim who visited the market at about 6:35 am on Wednesday to ascertain the level of damage sympathized with the victims. “So far as there is life, there is hope. Don’t lose hope or give up because of this. You shall all overcome this setback,” she admonished the victims. The Council Chairman described the incident as pathetic and promised that the Council would in its capacity make sure the basic things were put in place to prevent a reoccurrence. Meanwhile, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the State, Professor Benard Odoh, has sympathized with the traders and people of Afikpo over the fire disaster. POLL A statement jointly signed by Odoh and his deputy, Dr Nkata Chuku, assured that if elected in 2023, they would lead cross networked Market union leaders forum across all the markets in Ebonyi State to implement design solutions that would have been in place and capable of mitigating fire incidences in the State. The statement reads: “There is no length of the message that would be enough to ease off the direct and indirect pains of the economic loss suffered here by many of us at a time the country’s economic climate hasn’t been anything to cheer up about. “I write not only to convey my heartfelt message to you but to step in as a partner in solidarity march towards the direction of HOPE in the fact that, when all of us as ordinary people rally around together for an improved cause, extraordinary results would be achieved. ‘As one who is on the lead aspiring to become Ebonyi State Governor in 2023, I am making it straightly clear that our administration with Dr Nakata Chuku as my Deputy will lead cross networked Market union leaders forum across all the markets in Ebonyi State including this very particular Eke Market – to implement design solutions that would have been in place and capable of mitigating fire incidences like this. “It pains my heart that we watch fire helplessly raze down our efforts of many years in a few seconds. “Our administration has planned a multi-layered design solution down to last-mile community/Market levels that will effectively apply modern and smart efficient firefight technology/equipment, mobile and responsive enough to make sure this type of fire incidence and related incidences will never be allowed to take us back any longer.”