Projecting into the mindset of a poten­tial president of Nigeria that would be the new occupant of Aso Rock Villa in 2023 is what l have set out to do by writing this essay. And l would like to state upfront that I am not by any means engaging in clairvoyance. That is why all l want to do is leverage trend analysis as a tool, and look back into the past and also project into the future to figure out who out of the motley crowd of presidential candidates would end up calling the shots in Aso Rock Villa in 2023. Although , there are at least fifteen (15) pres­idential candidates that have met independent National Electoral Commission, INEC eligibil­ity conditions and deadline , l have narrowed the number down to mainly two, and to a much lesser degree , a third in the unlikely event that the much hyped youth revolution occurs and only one political party benefits from it. As the saying goes,by their fruits we shall know them. So for the purpose of this discourse, fruits can be substituted for antecedents. And relying on their antecedents,l can wager a bet that the three presidential candi­dates,of which one of them would willy nilly be propelled into Aso Rock Villa seat of pres­idential power next year, are in the persons of Asiwaju, Bola Tinubu, the flag bearer of the ruling party at the center, APC and Turaki Atiku Abubakar,the standard bearer for the main opposition party, PDP, and mr Peter Obi, LP candidate, in the unlikely event that a mir­acle happens. At the risk of appearing to be presumptu­ous, nothing much has changed in Nigerian political space except the current wave of youth activism in the political space triggered by the reformed electoral Act 2022 which has conferred fidelity on our electoral system currently igniting unprecedented political consciousness in our youths. POLL It is amazing and heartening that 60% of potential voters in Nigeria which the youth demography represents, and who had hitherto been neglected or dormant ,are now the highly charged and motivated members of society anxious to exercise their civic duty of voting with the sole aim of seizing power from those they have branded as old generation politi­cians that must be shoved aside in 2023,and replaced with their purportedly newly found idol-Peter Obi and his running mate ,Datti Baba-Ahmed,when president Mohammadu Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo exit Aso Rock Vil­la next year. As l have asserted in previous interven­tions,such a radical prospect of ousting the old politicians with alacrity by our youths,bothers on,at best,idealism, and perhaps youthful exu­berance,if one were to be less charitable. And for the reasons above, my sincere ad­monishment to our youths,as l had done in my previous media interventions is for them to decode the coded message in the conventional wisdom and idiomatic expression: ‘if wishes were horses ,beggars would ride’ and ‘old hors­es never die, they just find new horses to win’ To be clear,my point is simply that the 360 degrees change that the youths are seeking would not materialize as fast as they would expect. But it would happen if they remain tenacious. So, although the youth generation would make significant impact in 2023 elections ,as l had enunciated in my media intervention widely published on 21 June, 2022 titled:Con­verting Youth Bulge To Positive Force For Politics in Nigeria,my prognosis is that either Turaki Atiku Abubakar or Asiwaju Bola Tinu­bu would prevail in the upcoming presidential contest. As such one of them would be the one to receive the hand over notes from president Buhari on 29th May 2023. And l can foretell what the policies and pro­grams of the duo, perhaps a trio, would look like when one of them takes over the reins of governance. Basically,most of what is known about them and which l will rely on in my analysis are derived from their period of stewardship or time in public office . With respect to Tinubu,he has served for two terms as governor of lagos state from 1999 to 2007 and left footprints with respect to spreading his political tentacles nationally, and his significant efforts at providing infra­structure that has steered lagos state towards becoming a mega city, remain unsurpassed. Regarding Abubakar who was Vice President to former president Olusegun Obasanjo,who also served from 1999 to 2007, he has giant imprints in both the terrains of politics and economy nationwide. Leveraging the network of Peoples Dem­ocratic Movement, PDM, inherited from his mentor, the late Shehu Musa Yar’Adua, he is easily one of the most widely known politi­cal actors in Nigeria, having contested for the presidency of Nigeria a whopping five (5) times with significant impact. For that reason, the PDP candidate is believed to already have in his kitty about 13 million Nigerian voters which he earned during his last contest for the office of president in 1999 with incumbent president, Mohammadu Buhari who received a couple of millions more votes than him. I will not dwell on Peter Obi because every­thing about his service in public office,includ­ing documents that are supposed to be classi­fied,plus the ones concocted by the denizens swirling around in his orbit or netizens that have colonized the cyberspace on behalf of Obi are already over exposed in the public domain. So,without further ado,it is pertinent that we get down to the brass tacks by shining the light on the private sector background of the likely candidates that would become president of Nigeria next year. In any case,with the economy and security likely to occupy the left and center of the polit­ical debate when Independent National Elec­toral Commission, INEC, officially opens the space for campaigning on 28th September,Bola Tinubu and Atiku Abubakar who are thank­fully not economic illiterates would be going head-to-head. Remarkably ,the terrific and encouraging thing about the candidates is that both of the APC and PDP candidates, plus the LP candi­date Peter Obi can read the balance sheet be­cause they are all business savvy, having been private sector practitioners. While Tinubu is an accountant, with inter­est in tax collection,Atiku is an astute entre­preneur with investments in oil/gas as well as education while Obi is a commodity trader. For lack of space and time, I will not go into granular details about their businesses. Now,Tinubu’s supporters would aver that it is his blueprint for the development of La­gos state that has remained the play book that have subsequently been relied upon by three governors-Babatunde Fashola , Akinkunmi Ambode and Jide Sanwo-Olu-for the advance­ment of the state. By the same token,the former Vice Presi­dent Atiku Abubakar shares in the credit for the giant developmental strides taken in our country under the watch of former president Obasanjo for eight (8) years . It was during that period that Nigeria’s debilitating debt of about $30 billion(which has reportedly sadly currently tanked to an estimated $90 billion under the present regime) was substantially written off ($12 billion) by the Paris Club of creditors. It was also a time that Nigeria wit­nessed economic reforms including privatiza­tion of public utilities such as the telecommu­nications sector that ushered in the current mobile telephone revolution. And there are credible reasons to believe that if president Obasanjo had succeeded in serving a third term ,)as pundits aver that he was desirous of doing ) the petroleum sector would also have been privatized. That means that Nigerians would not have been going through the agony of paying for the commodity literally through their nose, and basically going through hell and back to even find the commodity to purchase. So inevitably ,the candidates that would likely emerge as president are pro-private sector and therefore likely to be able to pull Nigerian economy out of the abyss where it is currently mired due particularly to the monumental and unprecedented levels of insecurity in the country and poor economic policies,especially petroleum subsidy which is expected to gulp about four (4) trillion naira in budget 2022 , broken down as approximately N600 billion naira monthly expenditure,and still counting. Before dwelling further on the likely eco­nomic policies of the potential Aso Rock Vil­la after president Buhari exits next year, it is appropriate that we underline the qualities that Nigerians expect in their next president. During the launch of my new book: Becom­ing President Of Nigeria.A Citizen’s Guide, the keynote speaker, professor Mike Ikhariale, a Harvard University trained constitutional lawyer, outlined some qualities that an ideal president of Nigeria is supposed to posses in addition to the requirements in the 1999 con­stitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. The expert in constitutionalism laid it bare by leveraging the work of an authority in con­stitutionalism, James Barber. Here is how he put it: “According to James Barber in his studies generally referred to as “Barber’s Research”, he laid out about 10 essential qualities which a President must possess in order to be success­ful. They include: a. A strong vision for the country’s future supported by a plan of action. b. He must have the ability to put his own reign in historical perspective. c. A president must be a communicator who knows the importance of the so-called ‘Bullying Pulpit’. d. He must be prepared to make unpopular decisions, someone who is able to move beyond the orthodoxy and purposefully innovative. e. Must have crisis management skills, not passing the puck but accepting realities. f. Must be a person of remarkable character and integrity. g. Even though he has the constitutional power to hire and fire, he must make his key appointments wisely in such a way that he can use his employment prerogative to bol­ster his own political reach. This in modern times would mean gender balance and in the particular case of Nigeria, the requirements of Federal Character principle. He must avoid cronyism and nepotism. h. Must have the ability to relate with the Legislators, i. Needless to say, that charisma and a wel­coming aura are great assets for a President.” Having arrayed the qualities of an ideal president, the question now is: does the an­tecedents of the two candidates of the ruling party APC – Bola Tinubu and main opposition party, PDP -Atiku Abubakar and the distant third candidate, Peter Obi of LP , who are the front runners in the race to Aso Rock Villa, posses most or all of the qualities enunciated in ‘Barber’s Research’ earlier cited by profes­sor Ikhariale?