Sylvester Enoghase ; Innocent Oweh Lagos / Abuja – Mr. Festus Osifo has been elected as the new President General of the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) despite a court case over its leadership crisis. His emergence will see him presiding over the affairs of the labour centre for the next three years. Osifo emerged the preferred candidate at the 12th Triennial National Delegates’ Conference of the congress which held in Abuja on Tuesday. He doubles as the National President of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN). Announcing the results, the returning officer, Shehu Mohammed, said that a total of 728 delegates participated in the election with Osifo pulling 688 votes to defeat his opponent, Oyikan Olasanoye, who polled 18 votes while twenty-two votes were declared invalid. Osifo, who assumed office as President of PENGASSAN in August 28, 2020, had previously served among others, as PENGASSAN Producers Forum Chairman between 2016 and 2018. The new TUC president is a member of the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE), Council of Registered Engineers of Nigeria (COREN) and Society for Petroleum Engineers (SPE). In his acceptance speech, Mr. Osifo vowed to fight for the welfare of the masses as well as the protection of the interest of every Nigerian worker. POLL He lauded the past leaders of the congress for laying “a solid foundation on which the body thrives and vowed to sustain the vision”. The new president also promised to carry everyone along in his quest for a greater TUC while also pledging to “initiate a platform to placate all aggrieved comrades.” Meanwhile, there is an ongoing litigation at the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, which sitting has been adjourned in a case instituted against the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) by some of its members. The new date for the hearing is now August 4, 2022 in Lagos. This comes as the court earlier stopped the planned 12th Triennial Delegate Conference and election, which, however, held between July 19 and 20,2022 in Abuja. Recall that some of the TUC members have been having leadership tussle in the past three months, especially for the position of its president and other major positions in the union. The Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and other Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) and nine other affiliate unions from the TUC are seeking redress over the leadership crisis. Justice Rabi Gwandu of the Lagos Judicial Division, National Industrial Court, in his hearing also adjourned the case between ASSBIFI and nine other unions versus the Trade Union Congress (TUC) of Nigeria to July 18, 2022. At the hearing on Wednesday, July 6, 2022, the presiding Judge granted an interlocutory order as prayed by ASSBIFI and others in the motion paper dated and filed on June 16, 2022. Justice Gwandu stated that an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants/ respondents by itself, servants, officers, agents or privies by whatsoever name so called from holding or taking further steps to hold and conduct election into the position of president and other national officers pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit before the honourable court. She noted, “And for such further or other orders as this honourable court may deem fit to make in the circumstances.” According to her, the affidavit in support of the motion ex parte deposed to by Benedict Ikegbulam, male, Nigerian, Christian and General Secretary of Pulp Paper and Paper Product Printing and Publishing Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PPAPPPAPSSAN) of No 6B, Agunbiade Street, Oke Koto, Agege, Lagos State will be looked into.