The Chairman of CIG Motors, the authorised distributors of GAC vehicles in Nigeria, Chief Diana Chen, has stated that her company offers more than vehicles sales, as it provides absolute after-sales services, backed by genuine spare parts to auto enthusiasts in the country. She made this assertion over the weekend when Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, the Lagos State Governor, commissioned the new ultra-modern GAC G-Styled showroom on Victoria Island, Lagos. According Chen, GAC also offers technical training to Nigerian technicians and engineers by way of technology transfer via its nationwide dealerships. “We are so proud to open our showroom and workshop, and we plan to open five of such facilities across the country,” she added. The auto boss who was named Nigeria Auto CEO of the year recently, explained that with the opening of the G-Style showroom, the company is offering the G-Elite, G-Star and G-Family packages to different segments of the society, which comes with numerous benefits. Sanwo-Olu in his speech commended Chen and the management staff for the construction of the showroom, describing the effort as a “great job.” Sanwo-Olu expressed delight in the fact that GAC and Lagos state Government have entered into a partnership to build an auto assembly plant, which he expects to be commissioned before the end of this year at the Ogba area of the state. The governor also unveiled the newly improved award winning GS4 Crossover Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), which is a very popular model on Nigerian roads. POLL Also commenting Mr. Jubril Arogundade, General Manager of CIG Motors said that the GS4, which is in its second generation, comes with ample leg room, three driving modes, amazing comfort and fuel economy as well as seamless navigation system. Earlier, the governor was conducted on a tour of the newly re-built state of the art GAC workshop that is located right behind the ultra-modern showroom and equipped with different sections such as express maintenance, general repair, four wheel alignment, spray booth, metal repair, polishing and body mechanical. Earlier, the company had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Wema bank, as the bank undertakes to finance another batch of 1000 GAC units. The event was graced by top government functionaries, diplomatic corps and captains of industries. GAC vehicles, coming mainly as sedans and Sports Utility Vehicles, have been widely accepted and being used across the country.