YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has visited the United Nations (UN) at its headquarters in New York, United States of America (USA), to strengthen collaboration between the state and the global body. Diri, who was received by the Deputy Secretary-General of the UN, Amina Mohammed, expressed the state government’s commitment to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN to improve the living conditions of the people of the state. The governor, in a statement issued on Friday by his New Media Director, Kola Oredipe, said sustained collaboration with the UN would fast-track development in such areas as education, health, youth, and women empowerment, food production and the environment. According to him, the synergy would also enhance the prosperity agenda of his administration to the people of Bayelsa, adding that his government was building critical infrastructures that would open up the state for great opportunities and more investments in various sectors. He described Amina Mohammed as a worthy ambassador of Nigeria and congratulated her on her successful rise to the enviable position of the deputy scribe of the UN as well as the great work she was doing at the global organisation to help humanity. “We have come to strengthen the existing relationship between Bayelsa State and the UN. We are committed to the attainment of the SDGs for the betterment of our people in education, health, sanitation, access to clean water and ensuring we live in a safe environment devoid of pollution,” Diri said. He explained that the government had taken deliberate steps to open up the state’s maritime domain with the construction of the three senatorial roads to connect coastal communities and the corridors to the Atlantic Ocean where huge economic potential exist for the establishment of seaport and massive aquaculture projects to create jobs. Diri also requested that the ongoing environmental clean-up in Ogoni land through the United Nations Environment Programme should also be extended to the Niger Delta and Bayelsa in particular, which reports had indicated was the worst hit by oil spill incidents with devastating impact on ecology and attendant health challenges. -Advertisement- POLL “You are very familiar with our stories and the Niger Delta environment. We must commend what you started in Ogoni as then Minister of Environment. Our land, rivers are polluted. The remediation of the region must be total. Bayelsa State is worst affected”, the governor said. In her response, the UN deputy scribe said the global body was ready to deepen the existing relationship with Bayelsa to support ongoing development efforts by the current administration. Amina Mohammed, who welcomed the governor’s request for Bayelsa to host the Gulf of Guinea summit, said the UN was disturbed at the level of environmental pollution in the Niger Delta and described the situation as “a complete disaster.” She commended the pace of development in the state since its creation in 1996, stressing that “a lot has happened in terms of infrastructure in Bayelsa State since creation along side my own State of Gombe.” She added: “We are here to support nations, communities to grow. We are working with leaders like you to add values to the lives of the people and create opportunities for the young people to harness their potential. Here, we are working hard to realise those SDGs and make our society better. “It is not just about Ogoni land but the remediation should be for all oil-producing places. The means of livelihood of the people, fishing and farming are greatly affected. The oil pollution is a complex thing and it is a complete disaster which require urgent intervention.” Among members of Governor Diri’s entourage were Nigerian Consul-General in New York, Ambassador Lot Egopija; member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Fred Agbedi; Permanent Secretary, Bayelsa State Ministry of Trade, Industry and Investment, Ranami Abah; and Major Lancelot Anyanya.