LAGOS  – Prior to now, governorship elections in Akwa Ibom state has always been a two-horse race between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). However, that may change in the 2023 with the entrance of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). Even though the party was newly formed, it has gained significant followership in the state following the defection of Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, former Minister and immediate past National Secretary of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). That Akpanudoedehe is a force to reckon with in the politics of the state became evident when thousands of APC loyalists move with him to the NNPP. Also, some PDP who were piqued with the circumstances that led to the emergence of the party’s governorship candidate, Umo Eno also moved to the NNPP where they promised to work for Akpanudoedehe’s victory. It will be recalled that in June, Akpanudoedehe, after consultations with his followers formally resigned his membership of the APC. In a statement he issued and personally signed, he apologised to all his supporters, reassuring them that the move is for the best. “I write to notify you of my resignation from the All Progressives Congress, forthwith. “Henceforth, I cease to be a member of the APC in my ward (Ward 6, in Uyo LGA) or anywhere for that matter. I hereby relinquish all rights accrued to me as a member of the APC, member of the National Advisory Council and member of National Caucus of the APC. “This decision to part ways with the APC is a tough one, but leadership entails adherence to the wishes of the vast majority of associates, allies and supporters who have shown fidelity overtime and have now witnessed the obduracy of the APC in handling the candidates’ selection processes in Akwa Ibom state.” Following his adoption as the governorship candidate of the NNPP, Akpanudoedehe has changed the political narrative in the state as many no longer believe that the contest will be between the PDP and APC again. While the ruling party in the state, PDP is doing everything to limit the spread of NNPP in Akwa Ibom, the APC which has seriously depleted in membership since Akpanuedoedehe’s exit are doing all they can to make him return to the party but he has stoutly refused, saying that his loyalty is now the NNPP. A well-known grassroots mobiliser, Akpanudoedehe recently organized town hall meetings across the state where he had the opportunity to meet with the people, especially those in the rural areas and interact with them on his plans for them if given the mandate in the 2023 governorship election. POLL Last week, the Africa Democratic Congress (ADC), adopted Akpanudoedehe as its governorship candidate ahead of the 2023 general election in Akwa Ibom state and NNPP stakeholders informed Daily Independent that more endorsements will be announced in the coming days. The state Chairman of the ADC, Apostle Mathias Titus who led members of the State Working Committee of the Party on a solidarity visit to Akpanudoedehe at his Afaha Offot Chapel Villa residence, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State Capital said the decision to endorse the NNPP governorship candidate was driven by the need to support a strong, reliable and credible candidate by opposition parties to win the governorship election in 2023. He said Senator Akpanudoedehe represents the best opposition brand with practical proposals which would solve the problems of Akwa Ibom State. Flanked by his executive members, Apostle Titus said it was the wish of opposition parties in Akwa Ibom State to form a strong and united front to capture power from the PDP in 2023 and form what he described as the “Government of State Unity” where all the political parties will be represented and make inputs in the New Akwa Ibom which Senator Akpanudoedehe and NNPP is proposing. Responding, Akpanuedoedehe expressed happiness at the endorsement, saying his interest in the Akwa Ibom state governorship seat was to address the tripartite challenge of poverty, unemployment, and underdevelopment which he said has afflicted the masses and robbed them of their dignity. He said it was imperative that political blocs in the state collapse into an alliance in the best interest of the people promising to integrate the party into his mainstream campaign and government if elected in 2023. Also, in another major boost to his governorship bid, stakeholders in Itu Ibiono and Etinan Federal Constituencies have called on Akwa Ibomites at home and in the diaspora to support Senator Akpanudoedehe to win the 2023 general election. They made the calls separately at a Townhall meeting organized at Abong Itam and independent Town Hall, Etinan last week Speaking at Etinan during the Etinan Federal Constituency Townhall meeting, elderstatesman, Arch Ekong Etuk, said he was moved by the capacity, consistency, and determination of Senator Akpanudoedehe in pushing his governorship ambition despite the hurdles posed by some elites forces against him, said he had no doubt that the former local government chairman and Minister will deliver his promises to the masses. At Itu, the candidate for Itu Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency under the platform of New Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP, Bassey Effiong, called for support to Senator Akpanudoedehe to win the 2023 governorship polls and implement programmes that will better a lot of the suffering masses of the State. Effiong a leading entrepreneur and philanthropist made the call at the ongoing townhall meetings NNPP held at Abong Itam in Itu Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State. Speaking during the townhall meetings of the NNPP with Akwa Ibom electorates, Akpanudoedehe debunked misleading claims about his ambition, saying his interest in the state’s governorship seat was basically to make life better for the masses which he said has been the base of his politics starting from when he contested and won election as a Local Government Chairman Effiong who hails from Ibiono Ibom said his election to the National Assembly to represent Itu Ibiono Federal Constituency will afford him the opportunity to give legislative backing to programs of the party as proposed by Ex-Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and Senator John Udoedehe, Presidential and Governorship candidates of the party in 2023. Effiong who has a long record of community development in the federal Constituency promised to empower the people more when elected. Speaking during the townhall meetings of the NNPP with Akwa Ibom electorates, Akpanudoedehe debunked misleading claims about his ambition, saying his interest in the state’s governorship seat was basically to make life better for the masses which he said has been the base of his politics starting from when he contested and won election as a Local Government Chairman. Akpanudoedehe who has visited Ikot Ekpene, Eket, Ikot Abasi, Ikono Ini, and Oron Federal Constituencies said his government will be radically different from the past administrations as he has garnered more experiences in his struggle to build a people-oriented base in the state. He listed his plans to include, among others, ending masses poverty by empowering 1000 persons in each of the local government areas with one million naira to start Small and Medium Scale Enterprises to become self-sufficient and generate employment also vowed not to disappoint the state if elected.