Abuja  – The House of Representatives’ Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, said his struggle against the third term agenda of former President Olusegun Obasanjo was one which almost claimed his life as well as his political career as member of the House. Narrating his life threatening ordeals in the hands of pro-third term agenda within and outside the House in his recently published memoir, ‘Mr. Speaker,’ authored by Musa Abdullahi Krishi and Dr. Charles Omole, Gbajabiamila noted how agents of the botched attempt at subverting the constitution under President Obasanjo made life uncomfortable for him and his opposition colleagues in the House. He said while pro-third term lawmakers in the House were launching physical attacks, recalling an incident with a former colleague, Independence Ogunewe, who almost strangled him to death on the floor of the House in 2006, coupled with numerous death threats from outside the legislature, another set of forces mobilised his constituents to launch a fierce campaign against his reelection bid in 2011, using his stance against Obasanjo’s third term agenda as basis to block his reelection. “Of course, I mean, that was one of my toughest elections,” Gbajabiamila recalled, saying, “I sounded like a hypocrite to people who didn’t know better or who didn’t understand the constitution. “Because there you were, you made a name for yourself, you fought, much to the admiration of everybody and stopped what became known as third term agenda, and shortly after that you now had a third term agenda yourself, this is as simple as they understood it,” he said. Stating further, the speaker said: “But first of all, look at the background: in my constituency, nobody had ever gone back to the House twice, so you broke that jinx and you’ve gone back twice. Then coming on the heels of the fight that you fought, that everybody fought, that the whole of Nigeria did not want a third term agenda, you are now asking for a third term agenda? That’s the height of hypocrisy: that’s how they saw it.” POLL “So I had to go round, it was a lot… trying to explain and educate the electorate. That no no no, two term limit is only applicable to the executive under the constitution; it is clear in the constitution. That for the legislator, not just in Nigeria but worldwide, you can go fifty times if your people want you back. I gave them examples, and I made it clear to them that there is no term limit in the constitution for legislators, whereas there is term limit for governors and presidents, and I gave them reasons why there is a difference, why there is a term limit for the executive, and then they began to understand.” He recalled being told at the time: “‘Thank God nobody complained that you had not done well. In fact, you had done exceedingly well,’ beyond what they have ever experienced… But it was just that moral thing, that you’re not allowed a third term. That it was turn by turn… but we were able to break that jinx and educate them, so we did that third term, we did our forth term, we did our fifth term,” Gbajabiamila recalled on page 38 of the book. However, given the consistent denial of the former president at different fora since his departure from office in 2007, as well as his response to the third term agenda question on pages 35 and 36 of the book, Gbajabiamila said the question must be asked as to whether the alleged intended beneficiary (OBJ) was aware of the efforts expended on his behalf.