Senator Seye Ogunlewe, former Minister for Works and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in this interview with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the prospect of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu emerging the next president of Nigeria, why the Muslim-Muslim ticket arrangement of the party won’t be a barrier, among other issues. Excerpts: With Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi the presidential candidate of Labour Party, and Rabiu Kwankwaso, the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in the race, what are the chances of the presidential candidate of your party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the 2023 election? It is a pity that the PDP has not learnt its lessons. What is happening now is a repetition of what happened in 2014, when six governors left PDP for the APC. Leaving the PDP is a big factor for the APC to capture. Instead of all of them to come together, they are dividing their votes again. The PDP votes will be divided into three or four parts, leaving the APC votes intact. It is easier for the APC to win now than ever before. No matter what anybody thinks, the APC has an advantage, because out of the 36 state governors, it has 22. They will need another strategy to defeat APC but rather than strategize they are thinking about individual popularity, and it will not work for them. It is very clear that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is the next president of Nigeria. Nigerians are concerned that your party wants to field Muslim-Muslim ticket at a time when there are so many issues around religion in the country, what are your thoughts? Bola Tinubu is not the kind of Muslim people are thinking about. His wife is a pastor, all his children are Christians. In his house he has a church, where the pastor preaches and he is not complaining. This kind of a person is not the kind of Muslim that we should be worried about. He is ‘Muslim-Christian’ what we should talk about is a ‘Muslim-Christian-Muslim’ because his house is divided into two; there is a Christian wife, who is a pastor, not an ordinary Christian; she is a pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, a person who has been living with a Christian wife for a long time and children that are Christians. As far as I am concerned there is going to be only one Muslim in that ticket and that is the Muslim from the North. In the South-West in particular, religion means very little to us. There is no family that won’t have Christian and Muslim members. When people are talking about religion, we in the South West don’t understand. I grew up in Okoya Street, Lagos Island, we have Muslims and we have Christians. I attended Christian school, St. Patrick’s Primary school but when they were observing Ramadan, we participated. Can you believe that the senior prefect of Gregory College was a Muslim, in a catholic school? The Issue of religion matters in some zones but not in the South-West. Although it is a factor that we will try to manage, it is not that critical. In the history of Nigeria, I have never seen northerners conceding power to the south, as 14 APC governors did. We must give them credit, because it has never happened in this country that governors in the north will sit down and ask the south to produce the president. We shouldn’t muddle the political scenario in Nigeria. All of them are Muslims, are we going to say that because we want a Christian vice president, they will not participate. How can we win? What about their own interests? Do you think that they have Christians when they asked the south to go and bring? Let the campaign start, we will see the competence of the candidates, and then Nigerians will decide. I can bet you that only a few, maybe five percent of Nigerians will vote on religious lines. I pray that our next president, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will pick Professor Babagana Zulu from Borno as his running mate, and then the election is won because Zulum is half a Yoruba man. He attended the University of Ibadan. He also obtained his Doctorate of Philosophy (PHD) there, so he is an Ibadan man. If he was an ardent Muslim, he would go to Ahmadu Bello University. Things are changing in Nigeria and we should not be static. We should widen our thinking and don’t think that religion is a major issue; I think we can manage these things better. There is also this speculation that your party lacks internal democracy which is the reason about 20 senators contemplated leaving your party but for the timely intervention of President Buhari. What is your take? The members of the National Assembly should not complain because they are the cause of all these problems, they don’t have reason to complain. Section 84 (12) which they are talking about is the same as section 86 (7) of 2010 electoral act, which they used with statutory delegates to be there at what point did they realize that statutory delegates are not included in the 2022 electoral act? It was unnecessary; they shot themselves on the leg, a provision that you didn’t create, the provision that didn’t have anything to do with them, they escalated it to shoot themselves on the foot. Who are they going to blame? They should blame themselves for handing over power and authority to the governors. Their strength will be felt in some states where they have the resources to fight the governors, but I can assure you that a senator, a member of the National Assembly can hardly contest properly with a governor in their states. It will be very difficult for them to win. What can you say about the resignation of the Chief Justice of the Federation (CJF), which some people claimed happened because of the judgment against the President and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) in respect of section 84 (12)? -Advertisement- POLL It is not true. He has been sick. It is not the head that determines Supreme Court judgments. There can be dissenting judgments. There are seven judges at the panel and it is four against three that wins, so it is not the voice of the CJF that matters in the judgment of the Supreme Court. Deserting judgment can override the main judgment. It was made seven so that they cannot be equal. Anybody who is in a government office will fill a code of conduct bureau form, at the expiration of his or her tenure, another form will be filled, if there is variance between the old and the new he or she will be asked to explain. What are your thoughts about Governor Matawalle’s request that natives should be licensed to carry guns to protect themselves? It is the federal government that is at fault because under the police act, any citizen can own a gun, only that he or she needs to apply to get it. Why should they cancel it? You cannot cancel the right of a citizen and think they won’t complain. It is not right for the federal government to prevent people who want to have arms not to do so. It is against their fundamental rights to protect themselves. The law says that you can apply to the police for a license. Why are they saying that you cannot apply to the police for a license? They can go to court and let the court interpret it. It is against the rights of the Nigerian citizens. The law says that I can apply; unless the National Assembly deletes it from the provision that is only when the federal government can have a say. As long as the law is there, you cannot say that I cannot apply to have arms to defend myself. Matawalle is right. But your party has not been able to tackle insecurity in the country…….. Federal government should lift the embargo in licensing people to own guns. They should allow individuals to apply; the police will screen them and give them license. It is against the fundamental rights of Nigerians to stop them from owning guns. Don’t you think that the inability of your party to tackle insecurity will work against the party in 2023? The tenure of this administration is coming to an end. It is the next government that we should ask to give us solutions to all the problems. We have the candidates now. We are going to challenge them to give us solutions to the insecurity. Let the police ask those who want to bear arms to apply and anybody that they believe is reasonable should be given. Preventing them, means they are colliding with the bandits. We have lost this one; let us face those that are going to campaign now. People still believe that whoever is coming from your party is an extension of this administration. No, it is not so, presidential system of government doesn’t work like that. You are there to solve a problem and not to say you will not solve the problem, and then you will not get the votes. It is for you to tell the voters that you are not going to continue with the policies of the present administration. What is the way forward? That is why Nigerians should rejoice that a new king is coming, and it is Bola Tinubu. He is a cerebral person, compassionate, knows the pains of the people and will address them. I can assure you there is no doubt at all. Change is coming to Nigeria, and the change will come through Bola Tinubu. I know he has the capacity to defend the right of any Nigerian. He is not going to be complacent. A new change is coming. We cannot continue with the same system, it has to change.