LAGOS – Global Youth Coalition for Road Safety, an international non-government organisa­tion networking to improve safety on roads, has called on local and global leaders to meaningfully engage with youth at all stages of deci­sion-making process. The call was made at the first United Nations (UN) High-Level Meeting on Im­proving Global Road Safety held in New York between June 30 and July1, 2022, fol­lowing three previously held Ministerial Conferences on Road Safety (2020 Sweden, 2015 Brazil, and 2010 Russian Federation). Youth for Road Safety (YOURS), on the sideline of HLM organised a session tagged, “Stop Blaming Us and Start Engaging Us” having the participation of the mayor of Kampala City and the Deputy Minister of Transportation, Dominican Republic. The HLM is the most sig­nificant political gathering held on global road safety to date according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The organisation revealed that road traffic fatalities are the number one single biggest killer of young people around the world. It revealed that every day more than 1,000 young people are killed on the world roads, with these tragic incidents repeating without concrete actions taken to mitigate them. It also said scholars had established that such reoc­currence could be attributed to youth inexperience, knowl­edge, awareness and informa­tion about the impact of road crashes, hampering their safety on the road. Indicating that the young people have a role to play in ensuring they are protected from road traffic crashes as they use the road. YOURS and the Global Youth Coalition for Road Safety flew representatives of young people worldwide for the High-Level Meeting on Road Safety, including Esti­ara Ellizar (Indonesia), Jacob Smith (USA), Simon Patrick Obi (Nigeria), and Yasmine Al Moghrabi (Lebanon) to attend. -Advertisement- POLL Speaking to Daily Indepen­dent, Simon Patrick Obi says, “It was indeed an honour to join in as a speaker during this first UN High-Level Meet­ing on Improving Global Road Safety at the UN Headquar­ters. I am humbled to share the stage with some global leaders, decision makers as well as youth leaders. “At the intergenerational panel session, I mentioned the need to start engaging mean­ingfully with young people in #RoadSafety decision making process so they can co-create the solution for #RoadSafety as opposed to the old way of only blaming youths, and en­forcement of the law.” Mr. Patrick in his contri­butions further said decision makers cannot be too busy initiating and implementing solutions for a problem that affects youths without involv­ing them. “I want to thank and appre­ciate YOURS and the Global Youth Coalition for Road Safe­ty for organising the official side event and for giving us the opportunity to ‘Claim Our Space’ in the UN High-Level Meeting on Improving Global Road in New York.