Abuja – Some operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have accused the top echelon of the Corps of undermining election monitoring in the country by not giving them their due after drafting them for the polls. They said eight months after the November 6, 2021 governorship election in Anambra State, NSCDC has refused to pay officers drafted from its headquarters in Abuja, on election monitoring to the South-East state, their allowances. Sources in the Corps said that the leadership has withheld funds meant for officers’ accommodation, feeding and other sundry allowances. They said that the affected officers were forced to pay for hotel accommodations and took care of other concerns from their personal savings. The affected officers are those from the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Corps (DSC) and the rank and file, while commandants were given the necessary allowances to take care of their accommodation, feeding, phone stipend, among others. One of the sources said, “There was no accommodation provided for us. We were taken from Abuja to Ekiti State without any plan for our accommodation. “Stranded officers had to cough out money from their pockets to pay for hotels. It was only the very senior officers that were lodged in hotels. “Even the allowances they promised to pay, till date we have not seen anything. It is the same thing that they did during the governorship election in Anambra State. -Advertisement- POLL “And when you complain, they tell you to wait for your turn when you become Oga.” When contacted, NSCDC PRO, Sola Odumosu, said that the Corps was yet to receive money for the Ekiti elections from the Federal Government. “As I speak with you the Federal Government of Nigeria is yet to give the Corps a penny from the Accountant General’s office. Rather than approach my office or their leader, they’ll prefer to embarrass their service on the pages of newspapers. “I don’t know how that helps them. There’s no way that the Corps will be given money to disburse to personnel for election duties, and then, the leadership of the Corps will put that money in their pocket. “It is not possible. Not at this age. Not this time,” he explained. He blamed the protesting officers for insensitivity and impatience, insisting that “even the money used to prosecute that election was borrowed by the leadership of this Corps.” Odumosu also disclosed that all allowances regarding the 2021 Anambra gubernatorial elections have been paid, adding that “there’s no way the Corps will divert funds meant for officers’ allowances. The Osun State election is around the corner. How can you do that and ask them to go monitor the Osun elections?” This is coming on the heels of recent allegations of collusion between security agents and agents of political parties at the Ekiti State governorship election. Meanwhile, the National Chairman of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Engr. Yusuf Yabaji, has expressed fears that Nigeria may lose its democracy soon following the actions of politicians and other stakeholders. He also said that the upcoming 2023 general elections may not prove the wishes of Nigerians, as he disclosed that incidents of delegates buying during the primary elections of some political parties show politicians’ desperation to thwart the mandate of the electorate. In an interview with Daily Independent, Yabaji equally revealed that the inability of security agencies “that are trained and specially paid to stop such practices,” to do the needful, portends grave danger for the upcoming polls. This is as he lambasted the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies which reportedly arrested persons involved in vote-buying at the Ekiti State gubernatorial elections of failure to prosecute the culprits. Yabaji stressed, “Look at what happened during the primaries of some of these parties. If outsiders are able to say that money exchanged hands, dollars were given, people were bought over, and agencies employed, paid, trained to discover some of these things, and they said they couldn’t see anything. These people are paid every day, they are well taken care of and they have been trained repeatedly to do nothing but to discover where such crimes have been committed and nip it in the bud or arrest those that were found wanting. And these agencies didn’t say anything. It is another way of saying it is business as usual.” He regretted that by delaying to prosecute those caught buying and selling votes at the Ekiti elections, the security agencies have denied the country the justice it needed. According to him, “This is a crime against Nigerians, against the future of this country and a crime against humanity. It is not necessarily a crime against the other party that was denied their victory. Theirs is just a onetime loss that they can recoup whatever they have lost but the country cannot recoup. “What it means is that the country is retrogressing and dangerously moving towards anarchy because if you continue to have people that have no empathy and sympathy, and that believe that it is a mercantile system, then danger looms in the near future.” The IPAC national chairman further called on Nigerians and stakeholders to interrogate the sources of wealth of politicians ahead of the 2023 general elections. This is as he expressed fear that Nigeria could lose its democracy, noting that “people’s confidence in this system of government is continuously been degraded day by day if you look at the economic, security and even the unity situation of the country itself. It gives one serious concern.” On the chances of opposition parties in the general elections, the Action Democratic Party’s (ADP) chieftain called for collaboration, insisting that “we must close ranks to see how we can achieve positive change. And positive change means that we are not going to continue to do things the same way.” He disclosed plans by opposition parties to field a presidential candidate they believe can win the poll, adding that IPAC is doing everything it could to create the needed harmony for cohesion among political parties.