YENAGOA – Leaders of former Niger Delta agitators under the aegis of Reunion Leadership for Peace Initiative (RLPI) have threatened to stage a protest if the Senate Committee on Public Accounts issues a warrant of arrest on the Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Colonel Milland Dikio (retd.), for not appearing before the committee to explain the alleged misappropriation of N10billion meant for the programme. The chairman of RLPI, under amnesty phase one, ‘Ex-General’ Godgift Ayabowei, gave the warning on Friday while reacting to the decision of the senate committee in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Recall that the Senator Matthew Urhogbide-led committee had threatened to slam a warrant of arrest on officials of the PAP, including Dikio, following their failure to honour invitation of the committee on the alleged financial scandal. Urhogbide was quoted by reports as having stated that the committee had invited Dikio to appear before the committee to answer questions on the query raised against the programme in the 2018 report of the Auditor-General of the Federation. Condemning the committee’s threat, Ayabowei contended that the auditor-general’s report covered transactions carried out at the amnesty office between 2015 and 2016. He stated that Dikio had not been appointed the PAP boss even as of 2018 when the auditor-general’s report was officially submitted. He pointed out that Dikio could not be held responsible for the alleged misappropriation of the N10bn, adding that the committee’s move was suspicious. Ayabowei said, “It is therefore our candid opinion that the committee should withdraw their threat of warrant of arrest on Colonel Milland Dixon Dikio (retd.) because anything to the contrary might spark off public protest. POLL “Furthermore, the PAP is a very technical and sensitive programme because it deals with ex-agitators who have volatile mindsets and characters. “If Colonel Milland Dixon Dikio (retd.) was not performing up to date, the ex-agitators would have been the ones to cry out and not the senate committee.” The ex-agitators’ leader, however, said the RLPI would not against Dikio appearing before the committee as it was clear that the alleged mismanagement did not happen under his watch. He insisted that the group was particularly against the threat of warrant of arrest on him, and would mobilise for a protest if the committee goes ahead to arrest the PAP boss.