AKURE – Preparation for the selection and enthronement of a new Olufon of Ifon in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State would soon commence as the 14 kingmakers empowered to select traditional rulers in the kingdom held a meeting with the leadership of the Council towards commencement of the process. Rising from the meeting held at Local Council Secretariat in Ifon on Wednesday, the kingmakers promised that the best contestant for the stool would emerge and the process would be devoid of financial inducement. Olufon’s stool has been vacant since the demise of Oba Israel Adegoke Adeusi, who was shot on November 16, 2020 by some unknown gunmen a few distance to the town while returning home from Akure. The killers of the monarch, who was crowned in 1997 and reigned for 23 years, are yet to be arrested after the incident. The Regent of Ifon, who is also a kingmaker, Chief Joseph Ayaye, told newsmen that the kingmakers were people of integrity who would not be partial in the selection process. Ayaye asked the three contestants for the stool and the leadership of Omuogba Ruling House to be fair and truthful in the process. He assured that those submitted by the ruling house would be screened until the best would nominated. According to him, “They are all our children and friends. Omuogba Ruling House should not cause chaos but stand on the truth for the selection process to be made rancour-free and peaceful. POLL “We will choose the best that will bring peace and development to the town. It is somebody that people like that should be king for peace to reign and not otherwise. Let the ruling house submit the names of those showing interest in the stool and we will do the needful.” Similarly, Chief Ayodele Ogunmola, one of the kingmakers, said that the kingmakers would abide strictly to expected ruling of Akure High Court on Monday next week. Ogunmola cautioned the state government not to allow undue interference into selection process of the next king. Chief Akindele Adejoyegbewa, another kingmaker, said: “The resolution is that we the kingmakers have no problem with any ruling house. But we have been restrained by interlocutory order of High Court in Akure in carrying out any selection process pending the determination of the court. “We as law-abiding citizens will obey the order and the process will commence immediately after the court’s ruling.” Another kingmaker, Chief Taiwo Ekundayo, promised that they would not compromise norms and tradition of the community, saying “We are not to be monetised because the truth must hold. Other communities collect money for such a process but we are saying no because we want to do the right thing. “We have no interest in any ruling house. Whatever the court gives as its verdict, we start from there.” There was heavy presence of the Nigeria Police and men of the Amotekun Corps and Nigerian Army to forestall breakdown of law and order during the meeting.