ABUJA – A multi-faceted entertainment giant, Mother of Models International Limited, has begun training for selected women on entrepreneurship, photography, tie and dye, painting, bead making and make-up, as part of measures to empower them. Jolly Nnenna Abani, Chief Executive Officer of Mother of Models International Limited, who revealed this in Abuja at the weekend at a media briefing, explained that one of her programmes, 40 and Fabulous Naija, which is a reality TV show, has been designed, among other things, to empower women. Abani said her organisation in collaboration with Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency(SMEDAN), has been developing the entrepreneurial capacities of selected women, who would be assisted with soft loans to set up small businesses after their 60 day training. She disclosed that Access Bank had also pledged to support these beneficiaries with credit facilities. According to her, “Access Bank made a promise that after the training and documentation, the women would be assisted with small loans. “Access bank came to train them on how to do business, how to access credit facilities and money management. “They were also trained on emotional intelligence. Abani explained that her organisation has been engaged in “taking the women off-the-street,”particularly vulnerable and abandoned women in society. POLL Going down the memory lane, she said the vision for the establishment of 40 and Fabulous Naija was conceived in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that some of the women who are beneficiaries of the programme have been “used, abused, dumped and rejected.” According to her, the programme was aimed at restoring the dignity of womanhood as well as assist women who are multi-tasking in their activities. “We are re-branding, stabilising and empowering women. We are contributing to national development,” she said. She further said her organisation is offering hope to women, particularly, women who are 40 years and above. Also speaking, Mr.Kennedy Aja, Director of Mother of Models International Limited,observed that the journey has been a tough one, noting that some of the beneficiaries who had earlier given up in life, have been re-oriented to believe they can succeed in life.