The  Chief Imam, Lagos State University (LASU), Professor Amidu Olalekan Sanni, has enjoined Muslims to show love and renew family ties as they celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir festival. Professor  Sani in his sermon shortly after the Sallah prayer held at LASU Eid Ground, Ojo also cautioned Muslims to shun all acts of evil, particularly on Sallah warning that whoever indulges in any act of evil on Sallah day has committed a great sin. Imam explained that it is part of the Sunnah of the noble prophet Muhammad (SAW) that Muslims should listen to Sallah’s sermon before they proceed to slaughter their rams. “We must also ensure that Imam slaughters his own ram before others do. Otherwise, there is no evidence of reward for whoever slaughters his ram before the Imam. Only prescribed animals should be slaughtered for sacrifice and they must not be eaten by our own households alone. Part of the animal must be shared with those prescribed. Professor Sani equally enjoined Muslims to sustain the act of glorification of Allah for the next three days with the special prayers prescribed in the Sunnah. He also warned that any sin committed on Sallah day may not be forgiven as the day is sacred and symbolic in Islam. Sani emphasized that prophet Ibrahim demonstrated this much .”This is what we should all imbibe in our day-to-day living. Prophet Ibrahim’s wife also dedicated herself to this act of worship. That’s why we must endure this act of worship in our women too. “Let us know that this occasion is the highest form of sacrifice in Islam,” he added. POLL The Imam admonished Muslims to always remember the needy, less privileged and those who have died, particularly during COVID-19 and now. The Muslim cleric also sought prayer for hundreds of Nigerians languishing in the captivity of Boko Haram and kidnappers and those who lost theirs during terrorism-related attacks. The Imam said: “As we know that election is coming let’s discharge our responsibilities as good Muslims and citizens of Nigeria exercising our franchise by choosing those who will represent us at various levels of governance. “Let’s pray for ALLAH’s protection over us and our family members. We pray to Him to protect our nation and grant our heart’s desires. And save us from all evils of mankind,” Imam said.