Ogun State Commissioner for Budget and Planning, Mr.Olaolu Olabimtan has tasked government statisticians and planners to embrace technological methods of data management. He said this has become necessary to support the government with accurate and reliable data to facilitate the delivery of meaningful dividends of democracy for the people of the State. To this end, the Commissioner, who doubles as the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Bureau has called on Statisticians and government Planners to make use of the “R Software” to capture the required data for evidence-based results. Mr. Olabimtan, who noted this in Abeokuta during a 2-day training orgamised by the Bureau of Statistics for Government Statisticians and Planners, maintained that the training programme was a natural progression from the previous training on Data gathering methods and urged the participants to take the training seriously and put such to use for better service delivery to the people of the State. “I am quite happy with the natural progression this series of training has taken. Two days ago, we were equipped with the latest data analysis method, and today again we are being trained on the modern technological method of Data Management using R-Software. “I charge you all to support the present administration with accurate and reliable data required to provide meaningful dividends of democracy for all and sundry,” he noted. In their goodwill remarks, the Consultant to the Governor in the office of the Statistician-General, Mr. David Alao said the training programme was to introduce the participants to the modern method of data management as against the old conventional method of treating questionnaires, saying that the training would help participants to measure the impact of government expenditure and other various government policies. Also, the Lead facilitator and Nigeria Local Chair of the Royal Society of Statistics, Dr. Olayiwola disclosed that the rationale behind the training was to brainstorm on how to support the present administration in taking people-centric decisions, saying Data Management is targeted at supporting and evaluating various policies of the government with evidence-based results. -Advertisement- POLL Participants for the different training were drawn from Ministries, Departments, and Agencies of government, as well as their counterparts from the local government.