George Amara, the head, gas and power of Quest Energy, in this interview with MOHAMMED SHOSANYA, discusses the country’s energy issues and his company’s interventions in the sector. Excerpts: What is your take on the birth of Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) and its effects on the nation’s energy sector? The Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and latter Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) as passed by the National Assembly and signed the President is a welcome development in the petroleum sector. It is expected to open more opportunities in the energy sector especially the power and gas sector. Many gas-fired power plants are currently underfed due to shortage of gas and that led to the reduction in power generation and consequently power availability in the country. With the PIA, it is expected that more gas will be produced as a result of more activities in the oil & gas sector. The natural gas (Lean, CNG, LNG) will be more readily available for the gas generating stations which is expected to boost power supply in the country. The cost of energy is skyrocketing at a disturbing pace. How do you think this impact Nigeria given the microeconomic challenges bedevilling the country? POLL Nigeria is a heavily import dependent country and any changes in international trade dynamics will definitely affect its internal microeconomics. Having said that, no country is completely insulated from the international trade imbalances since the world is integrated in the globalization of business. For a country like Nigeria to be mildly preserved from sudden shocks due to imbalances in international trade, it needs to capitalize in its area of strength such as Agriculture, Oil & Gas, population advantage and strategic location to easily carry out business. Some people have said that wasteful spending has largely been the reason the sector has remained unproductive. Do you think the funds could have been better managed or invested? Many of the investments in energy are more politically than strategic situated. This has led to underutilisation, poor revenue generation, poorly manned and economically nonviable investments. Investment in power and energy in general must be properly planned, economically viable and self-sustaining in order to meet the purpose or the expectation of the masses. I can agree that there are so many wastages in the power sector and these needs to be corrected for the nation to meet its energy requirements. Deficiency in gas supply has been blamed in many cases, for the poor generation of power. What is the possibility of addressing this ill through the National Gas Expansion Plan will address this problem? National Gas Expansion Plan (NGEP) or the Gas Master Plan was introduced to make CNG the fuel choice for transportation and LPG the fuel choice for cooking, captive power and small industrial complexes. The National Gas Expansion Plan was launched in Abuja on December 1, 2020 by the Federal Government, driven by its desire to reduce high reliance on petrol and achieve a cleaner environment The plan if properly implemented will definitely bridge the gap in energy needs for the targeted users especially for small power consumers. How do you think prospective investors in the Nigerian Power Sector can survive? The Nigerian power sector is still very much open for investment considering high power demand in the country and the possibility of exporting it to the neighbouring countries. Despite the huge potential in the Nigerian Power Sector, there are so many challenges bedeviling the sector; ranging from grid collapse due to old infrastructure and poor maintenance, poor billing system, to revenue assurance. My candid advice to the would-be investors is that they must be strategic, carry out a due diligence and have a proper Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) in place before venturing into the sector. Could you tell us the vision of Quest Gas and Power? Quest Oil and Engineering Services Limited is a one-stop, value-driven energy company with vast experience in the delivery of power, engineering, and oil & gas services to client organizations. Our vison is to be a globally relevant conglomerate, providing excellent engineering solutions, delivered by purpose-driven people in all regions where we have our footprints. Our services and solutions include installation of high-efficiency solar systems with energy storage, securing meters from the distribution companies to stop estimated billing, and management of alternative power using Diesel, Gas – Fired, and hybrid engines. How is Quest Gas & Power repositioning its operations to take advantage of cleaner energy prospects in the country? Quest Gas & Power has been in business of power generation and distribution for the past ten (10) years and it has been evolving in leaps and bounds. Leveraging on our experience and broad network of clients, Quest Gas & Power is very much positioned to harness the opportunities in the sector. Quest Gas & Power has been investing heavily in cleaner energy such LPG storage depots and retail stations for domestic use, CNG stations for power plants industrial use, Autogas for vehicles’ fuel, solar systems for light loads and lighting, etc. Recently, Quest Gas & Power is working on converting all its retail stations/outlet across the country from diesel power to solar power. Quest Gas & Power has begun the process of acquiring a 6.5MW Off-Grid electricity generation Licence. How enthusiastic are you about this milestone? Quest Gas & Power 6.5MW Off-Grid electricity generation and distribution project in the Abuja is a big project that will announce us as big players in the sector and possibly open other opportunities. We are fully focused on delivering the project on time, within the budget and fit for purpose. The Abuja 6.5MW off-grid power plant when completed will lower the cost of operations, provide cleaner and more reliable alternative power to Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) production plant in Abuja, boost the production capacity, its revenue and the economy of Nigeria. Quest Gas and Power is planning to replicate this success story in all NBC facilities and other clients in the country. Quest Gas & Power is glad and proud in providing solutions to the power sector which has been gripped with grid collapse and other associated problems in Nigeria. As a responsible organization, we will continue to provide solutions to especially in Nigeria and other West African Countries in Power, Oil, Gas and Engineering services. Tell us your company’s major projects in the pipeline? Quest Gas and Power is expanding its frontier by taking bigger projects in the sector. Some of the projects currently on-going and in the near future include LPG Skid rollout campaign, LPG skid installation project is on-going across Quest retail outlets in the country. This is expected to boost our revenue and service the country with a cleaner cooking gas, 4MW Gas Generating Plant. This project is situated in Port Harcourt city and it is owned by Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC). When completed, it will close the power requirement gap in their plant in Port Harcourt, 3.5MW Gas Generating Plant. This project is situated in Owerri, Imo State and it is owned by Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC). When completed, it will close the power requirement gap in their plant in Owerri, 10,000Mton LPG Storage Depot. This project is in line with the Federal Government’s initiative for Gas Commercialization and Expansion Programme. The depot will serve mostly the south-south, South-Eastern corridor.