The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has denied the purported news making rounds that he met with the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike in France ahead of the 2023 general elections. This was contained in a statement issued by Tinubu’s spokesperson, Tunde Rahman describing the viral reports as “fake news”, adding that although the APC standard bearer holds Governor Wike in high esteem, but such a meeting never took place. APC chieftain, Joe Igbokwe had on Friday posted on his verified Facebook page that Wike, who lost the PDP presidential ticket to former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, visited Tinubu in France. It could be recalled that since the selection of the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa on June 16 by the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, there has been an uneasy calm in the leading opposition party. In recent time, Wike’s had been seen romancing with some opposition politicians and his trip to Turkey has sparked more controversy in the party as some of the governor’s loyalists have threatened to leave the party. The governor had on June 24 hosted the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Rabiu Kwankwaso, in Port Harcourt a day after the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi visited him. Reacting to the rumour, the former Lagos State Governor’s media group said, “We have seen a viral social media post made by one of the chieftains of All Progressives Congress in Lagos State and media reports emanating from same about a supposed meeting in France between APC Presidential Standard-bearer, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State.” “It has become imperative to set the record straight. Although Asiwaju Tinubu is presently in France, he didn’t have any meeting with Governor Wike whether in that country or anywhere whatsoever. -Advertisement- POLL “This, however, does not detract from the fact that the APC presidential candidate holds Governor Wike in high esteem. “And given the national and across-party line’s appeal of Asiwaju Tinubu’s candidature, he will not hesitate to meet any important national leader when desirable. “As made public earlier, Asiwaju Tinubu is in France for some important engagements. He will return to the country shortly. “We would like, once again, to advice journalists to always cross-check their information with appropriate officers before rushing to press to avoid unintended errors.” Daily Independent understands that this is coming amid reports that Wike shunned the emissaries of the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar, in Turkey. 