LAGOS  – Nigerian organisations have been warned of emerging cyber-security threats that may affect their organisational existence unless they are tackled with strategic data-driven solutions. In a statement on TEXEM’s website, its Director , Special Projects, Caroline Lucas, said the firm urged the organisations to avail themselves of its programme for effective and efficient solutions. The programme comes up at The Wheatbaker Hotel, Ikoyi, Lagos on July 20 and July 21. The statement identified 17 challenges facing Nigerian organisations while assuring that the U.K. firm would make its expertise available in tackling these challenges. It stressed that challenges organisations in Nigeria presently face include; the unprecedented worldwide pandemic occasioned by the novel coronavirus and the Russia-Ukraine war that has affected every country on earth. The statement also mentioned the high level of physical and cyber insecurity, spiralling inflation, and supply chain disruption. “Conventional organisational models are failing, and effectively inspiring a remote workforce remains challenging. The others are low national cohesion, dramatic forex fluctuations, low or negative real GDP (inflation-adjusted) and, by extension, low customer demand”. Also, dwindling government and business revenue, higher costs, low morale of staff and the citizen, diminishing productivity and low level of national competitiveness when benchmarked with others,” it explained. POLL The statement listed additional challenges such as the high level of talent exodus and political unrest, the upcoming election in 2023 and likely changes in monetary and fiscal policies. It asserted that the forthcoming programme would equip leaders and participants with requisite strategic insights to stimulate innovative thinking further. The statement added that the programme would encourage evidence-based decision-making and help organisations thrive despite Nigeria’s challenging operating context. It announced that the programme is designed to meet the strategic leadership needs of executives rather than analysts looking to expand their technical skills.