ABAKALIKI – Chartered Institute of Taxation (CITN) Abakaliki & District Society, has elected new executive with Mrs Justina Nnachi of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) emerging the new Chairman. The election was conducted during the 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the District held on Friday at Monablis Hotels, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Among those elected alongside Mrs Nnachi, include; Mr Irem Sylvester (1st Vice Chairman), Cyril Agbo (2nd vice chairman), Larry Nwanoke (Secretary General), Uche Enogwe (Financial Secretary), Office Cornelius (Assistant Secretary) and Chigozie Ohanede (Publicity Secretary). Others are: Steve Onwukwe (Treasurer), Chima Eze (Technical Secretary), Moses Nwankwo (Membership Secretary), Angela Onyibe (Society for Women in taxation), Kingsley Onyekezie (1st Ex officio) and Edith Okoronkwo (2nd Ex officio). All the Officers emerged unopposed and they are to pilot the affairs of the District for the next two years, when they are sworn-in. In an interview with Journalists shortly after the election, the outgoing Chairman of the District Barrister George Ukpai congratulated the new executive and charged them to improve on the existing successes recorded by the outgoing executive. Ukpai disclosed that the outgoing executive was the pioneer leadership of the Institute in the state, saying they had been able to lay a solid foundation for the District. “We have been able to achieve increment in membership of the District, we have been able to secure participation of members at the District level and also the National level. POLL “We have also been able to increase collaborations between the Institute and Tax Administrators in the state. Before now, it wasn’t so in the District. We have collaborated with relevant Tax Authorities to improve our inputs in economic policy formulations in the State. “We have also been able to participate in the review of economic activities in the District in order to advice government. We have also collaborated with Tax Administrators to expand the tax net in the State through the enlightenment of taxpayers”, he explained. Mr Ukpai who emphasized the need for the new executive to ensure healthy collaboration with the government, said such collaboration would add value to the economic policies of the State. “It has always been the intention of the District that her collaboration with the government of the State in areas of capacity building, technical assistance, and economic policy reviews, will be great sources of value addition to both parties”, he added. The Controller of the Federal Inland Revenue Service in Ebonyi State, Mr Kenneth Effiong who served as the Chairman of the electoral committee, lauded the peaceful conduct of the District members during the exercise. He charged the new executives to move the District forward, even as he expressed confidence in their capacity to uphold the trust bestowed on them.