LAGOS –  A group, Education Rights Campaign (ERC) has derided the incessant threats and inaction by the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to embark on a solidarity action with striking university workers’ unions, saying it is a disservice to end the long-suffering of students. Coming on the heels of the Daily Independent enquiry about the proposed solidarity strike, ERC in a joint statement signed by Isaac Ayobami Ogunjimi, National Deputy Coordinator and Michael Lenin, National Secretary, urged the NLC to announce a date for the nationwide strike and mass protest to awaken the Federal government from the slumber that had kept thousands of universities and students from other levels of tertiary education at home for about 5 months. Though the group stated that much as its members welcome the pronouncement to embark on a solidarity protest to save the future and lives of innocent students, it urged the NLC leadership to ensure this goes beyond another mere verbal threat. The statement read in parts: “For the umpteenth time, the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has threatened to embark on a one-day solidarity action with striking education workers unions (ASUU, SSANU, NASU, and NAAT). “However, we call on the NLC, together with the TUC, not to limit the action to only a national protest but also match it with a 24-hour warning general strike, and begin the immediate preparation and mobilization for the action across all its affiliates as well as civil society partners through public meetings, leaf-letting and rallies.” “We specifically call for the convening of the Labour and Civil Society Coalition (LASCO) to draw in as many pro-working class, socialist, students, youth and activist groups as possible to aid the preparation for the solidarity action.” ERC recalled that the latest empty threat by NLC was not the first time the union will issue an intention of solidarity action, saying it did the same in April this year as it issued a 21-day notice of a national strike unless the government convenes a high-powered panel chaired by the SGF or the Chief of Staff to resolve the lingering dispute between the FG and ASUU. The statement added, “Not only was nothing heard from the NLC again at the expiration of the 21-day notice, even the nationwide protests which the NLC declared would be held within the subsisting 21 days ultimatum never materialized. No explanation was given by the NLC leadership to thousands of Nigerian students who were already looking towards the NLC for leadership in their quest to put an end to the shutdown of the universities. Just complete silence!“ -Advertisement- POLL “It is our considered opinion in the ERC that the leadership of the NLC needs to be more serious in its salutary effort to intervene in solidarity with the striking unions in their negotiation with the government. The methods and approach of the NLC must reflect the urgency of the situation which is that thousands of students are affected by the shutdown of universities and any day the strike lingers is an additional prolongation of their suffering and anguish. The group opined that aside from the lackluster attitude of the federal government, the NLC led by President Ayuba Waba does not seem to appreciate the agony and pain of students whose lives are wasting away at home as the movement foot-drags with a barren approach.