Alleges INEC’s Refusal To Recognize Njoku As Party Chairman Poses Danger To 2023 Elections ABUJA – Chieftain of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chekwas Okorie, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, the National Assembly, Civil Society Organizations and well-meaning Nigerians to prevail on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to respect the judgment of the Supreme Court panel on the leadership crisis rocking the party. In a statement on Saturday, the APGA Presidential Candidate urged for speedy intervention “before irreparable damage is done to our democratic process.” Citing various judicial authorities, Chief Okorie also urged INEC to recognize Chief Edozie Njoku as the opposition party’s National Chairman. According to him, the electoral umpire’s delay to do so poses a danger to the forthcoming polls. He referred to a May 6, 2022 application where counsel to Njoku drew the attention of a Supreme Court panel headed by retired Justice Mary Odili to an error in an October 14, 2021 judgment, insisting that the Justices mistakenly referred to Victor Oye as the National Chairman of APGA whose suspension by Chief Jude Okeke was not justiciable. The presidential candidate claimed that “the panel found this application to be meritorious, relying on Order 8, Rule 16 of the Supreme Court of Nigeria which states that, “The Supreme Court can or by a letter (application) review any judgment once given and delivered by it save to correct any clerical mistake or some error arising from any accidental slip or mission, or do vary the judgment or order as to give effect to its meaning or intention”. The statement added that following this, the Supreme Court Justices ruled in favour of Njoku, expunging the name of “Dr. Victor Oye as the 2nd respondent and replaced it with the name of Chief Edozie Njoku. POLL This judgment was duly certified by the Registrar of the Supreme Court and signed by the Chairman of the panel, Hon. Justice Mary Ukaego Peter-Odili who delivered the lead judgment. INEC was duly served this corrected judgment. INEC also directed its legal team to obtain the Commission’s copy of the corrected judgment being the 4th respondent in the suit.” It further noted the list of judicial authorities that picked clues from the Supreme Court judgment, as it pointed at a concurrence by Justice Mohammed Garba who traced the root of the leadership crisis in APGA to the May 31, 2019 national convention of the party in Owerri, Imo State. This is as it claimed that Justice Garba “restated the position of the law that the lawful and legitimate outcome of the Owerri convention was not justiciable or could not be challenged in the law court being within the purview of APGA.” More so, the statement alleged that INEC duly acknowledged the certified true copy of the judgment it was served even though the electoral umpire was a party to the suit. “It becomes worrisome why INEC will prefer to continue dealing with the factional leadership of APGA which clearly lacks legal backing or legitimacy to enter into any form of transaction with the Commission on behalf of the party,” Chief Okorie stressed. The Njoku faction insisted that “the authentic APGA is facing existential problems of being excluded from participation in the forthcoming 2023 general election together with its candidates who have emerged through congresses and subsequent primaries in which appropriate notifications were given to INEC and such notifications duly acknowledged by the commission. “The exclusion of APGA from participating in the 2023 general election shall result in the cancellation and nullification of the entire general election according to the clear provisions of the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The entire amount of about N350 billion appropriated by the National Assembly for the conduct of the 2023 general election will go down the drain. “It stands to reason that the 29th May, 2023 date for the inauguration of a new government in Nigeria may not be realized since the nation has to source fresh funds and produce a new timetable to conduct a fresh general election. All of these ominous possibilities are avoidable if only INEC can do the right thing without further delay.”