Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ondo State chapter has described the victory of the party and its candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke in the just concluded gubernatorial election in Osun State as a “dress rehearsal” of the forthcoming general elections in 2023. This was contained in a congratulatory message to the governor-elect, Adeleke and the PDP in Osun State by the Ondo State chapter of the party. According to a statement signed by the state Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kennedy Ikantu Peretei, he said Nigerians would continue to reject the ruling party, All Progressives Congress(APC) because of untold socio-economic hardship unleashed on the citizenry. He described Adeleke’s victory as well-deserved because it’s a victory for the people of Osun State. The statement reads in parts: “The Peoples Democratic Party( PDP), Ondo State Chapter, congratulates Senator Ademola Adeleke on his well deserved victory at the 2022 Osun State Gubernatorial election. “It was a victory for the people of Osun State, who demonstrated unequalled resilience, doggedness, commitment and determination to consign All Progressives Congress (APC) and its lacklustre Candidate, Oyetola, to the dustbin of history. “Our party congratulates the National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu and members of National Working Committee of our great PDP, Osun State National Campaign Council under the Chairmanship of H.E Douye Diri, and all other stakeholders who contributed to this hard won victory in Osun State. “There is no doubt that, Nigerians will continue to reject the APC and its candidates for foisting and presiding over unimaginable hunger and frustration in our country. POLL “The outcome of the Osun State Gubernatorial election is the dress rehearsal for the 2023 general elections. It is the sign and confirmation of a new dawn where bullion van politics will no longer hold sway. “Once again, we congratulate Governor-Elect, Senator Adeleke and the entire PDP family in Osun State, South-West Nigeria and indeed all over Nigeria.”