ABUJA – Hon. Samuel Onuigbo, the All Progressives Congress’ senatorial candidate for Abia Central Senatorial district, has applied to be joined in a suit filed by his party and 16 others against the Independent National Electoral Commission. The suit marked FJC/KT/CS/49/2022, was filed at the Federal High Court Katsina. Before the suit in Katsina was instituted, Onuigbo had dragged the APC, INEC and one of the Plaintiffs in the instant suit, Hon. Emeka Atuma to court in a bid to stop his name from being replaced with Atuma’s. The suit dated June 21, 2022, and initially marked FHC/ABJ/CS/963/2022, was filed on behalf of Hon. Onuigbo by his counsel, Chief Emeka Obegolu. However, the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho, transfered the suit to Justice Evelyn Anyadike of Federal High Court, Umuahia Division, under suit number FHC/ABJ/UM/CS/113/2022. Plaintiffs in the suit filed in Katsina are the APC, Chief Emeka Atuma, Christian Emejiaka, Barr Nnadozie Okpokiri,Wakilu Aliyu Boya, Nsikak Okonkon, Bright Osemeka, Dr Bashir Bello, John Agoda, Ajih Obiageli, Kolawole Mathew, Abdullahi Usman, Umar Sarki Fada, Amiruddeen Tukur, Chief Sam Ekwueme, Arch. Asema Achado, and Haruna Magaji.Upon the pendency of the suit in Umuahia, Atuma, a nominee of the APC, got an exparte order dated June 29, 2022, which was issued by a State High Court in Umunneochi, Abia state, which he abandoned. In the instant suit at the Federal High Court Katsina, Atuma was listed as the 2nd Plaintiff.Similarly, Justice Shittu Abubakar of the Federal High Court Katsina, upon an ex parte motion dated July 6, had granted an interim injunction restraining INEC from causing irreparable political damage to the Plaintiff/applicants, and directed INEC to receive the applicants’ documents as flagbearers of APC temporarily, pending the determination of the motion on notice. However, in a bid to block Onuigbo, winner of the APC primary for Abia Central Senatorial seat, Atuma has filed a counter affidavit seeking to stop Onuigbo from joining the suit. POLL Onuigbo had averred in an affidavit in support of the joinder application that the 2nd Plaintiff (Atuma) in the instant suit is the 3rd Defendant in suit No. FHC/UM/CS/113/2022, wherein the party seeking to be joined (Onuigbo) is the Plaintiff, pending before the Federal High Court Umabia, Abia State. Onuigbo stated that Atuma’s action constituted and abuse of court process as well as forum shopping.