ABUJA – A coalition of Civil Society Organisation, and Rights Advocates have initiated fresh moves to representation of Digital Right and Freedom Bill to the National Assembly for consideration and passage into law. The group, under the aegis of “Digital Rights and Information Partnership (DRIP),” is also pushing for the domestication of Freedom of Information Act in three pilot states of Adamawa, Edo and Kaduna to enhance the successful implementation of the legislation. Mr. Edozie Chukwuma, Senior Associate Planning, Advocacy and External Engagement, Gatefied Nigeria, while speaking at a press briefing in Abuja earlier in the week, highlighted the importance of the bill saying that it tackles issues such as censorship, the prohibition of hate speech and content blocking. According to Chukwuma, the DRFB is a proposed legislation that seeks to protect digital rights, including the right to online privacy, freedom of expression, information, the right to peaceful assemblyonline, and the right to create public knowledge. “The DRFB is important because it tackles issues such as censorship, the prohibition of hate speech and content blocking. It was passed at the National Assembly in 2019 but not signed into law by the President. The President’s assent was declined on the basis that the bill covers technical subjects that other policies seek to address. “Nigeria is currently a signatory to the United Nations (UN) resolution, instituted in 2016 which affirms that civil, political, economic, and social rights offline must also be protected online. This means the Nigerian government has officially acknowledged that digital rights are enshrined in human rights. With Nigeria’s 2023 election in view, it is the most opportune time for Nigeria to live up to its commitment of upholding digital rights by safeguarding the right to freedom of expression, association and sharing information online. “We are calling on the policymakers to support the representation and passage of the bill. If signed into law, the digital rights and freedom bill will safeguard Nigeria’s digital space against unlawful shutdowns, guarantee freedom of expression and assembly online. This will enhance citizens’ demand for accountability and good governance” he said. He further disclosed that Nigeria currently has over 109 million internet users, pegging the country amongst the top six highest internet users in the world. POLL According to him, the rise of internet usage in Nigeria has increased online civic space engagement, advocacy and mobilization. Chukwuma added that it has also increased reliance on digital journalism, democratizing the flow of information traditionally controlled by newspapers, magazines, radio and television companies.