LAGOS – The Bayelsa First Lady, founder and initiator of Gloria Diri Foundation, Dr. Mrs. Gloria Diri and Dr. Azubike Victor Chime, CEO of VMC Group of Companies, are among prominent Nigerians that received doctorate awards from the Prowess University, Delaware, USA, an event co-sponsored by Lead Times Africa Magazine. The award presentation was made at an impressive ceremony held at the University of Lagos Conference Centre, Akoka, penultimate Saturday. According to a statement by the organisers, Mrs. Gloria Diri was nominated for the award in recognition of her immense contributions through her pet project, Gloria Diri Foundation (GDF), to the social-economic development of Bayelsan girl-child, women, youths and all other less privileged people in the state. Presenting the award, the African representative of Prowess University, Prof. Eze Nwuaba, said Mrs. Diri was nominated because of the impact the GDF had been making among girl-child, widows, youths and other venerable people in Bayelsa State, even as he described her as an agent of social change and urged her to do more. In her response, Mrs. Diri thanked Prowess University for singling her out for this prestigious award and promised to rededicate herself to helping less privileged people. She added: “I was divinely directed to set up this foundation. I am dedicating this award to the widows, orphans and less privileged people of Bayelsa State.” She urged other awardees to do more for society, adding, “There is hope for Nigeria. We can all collectively help in reducing unemployment and poverty in the country.” Presenting the award to Dr. Azubuike Victor Chime, the MD/CEO of VMC Group of Companies, Prince Nwuaba said the university gave the honorary doctorate award in Organisational Leadership to him (Chime) for his immeasurable contributions to the socio-economic development of Nigeria. POLL Professor Nwuaba stressed: “You are the youngest recipient of this doctorate award because we recognise your versatility and business acumen in diverse business ventures spanning logistics, oil and gas, construction, transportation, advertising and marketing. Chime, in response, thanked Prowess University for recognising his modest contribution to society. Dr. Samuel Oga, the publisher of Lead Times Africa Magazine, co-sponsors of the event, said the university and medium bestowed the honour on Chime to encourage hard work among Nigerian youths. Chime is the publisher of VMC Global Magazine, which sponsored this year’s maiden edition to the ‘Eminent Nigerian in Diaspora award held in Cotonou, Benin Republic in 2022.