Have you wondered why Russia’s invasion of Ukraine does not occu­py much space in your news recently? News fatigue may be part of the problem, but that is hardly one percent of the answer. The main reason why you hear and read less and less about that war is simply because Africa is still tied to the news strings of the United States of America and Western Europe. Nigerians get their news from the BBC, CNN and VOA and Reuters and Associated Press. In the first weeks of that war, the Western media was awash with tales of heroism exhibited by the Ukrainian troops. Also, as the West piled up a punitive economic sanc­tion against Russia, many African social media analysts, parroting the positions of American talking heads, were counting the number of weeks before economic paralysis make Russia a veritable invalid. Unfortunately, many pro- Ukrainian Nigerians never realized that two serious problems faced Ukraine. The first is that those who have seriously followed war­fare were agreed from day one that Ukraine had six months to drive out the invading forces from the country before fatigue sets in and it would then face a prolonged military grid­lock. And anyone who has ever read much of the history of warfare would know that a gridlock was not a thing to joke about, especially if it happens in your home turf as it is happening now within Ukrainian soil. Nigerians should know that if they have not heard much about the war recently, it is simply because the decimation of the Russian soldiers they read about in the early weeks of that war was greatly exaggerat­ed. If Ukrainian armed forces have been killing the Russians as soon as they set foot on Ukrainian soil, how come Russia as of today controls more than 20 per cent of Ukrainian territory? In fact, a recent article in the Inde­pendent newspaper of London posit­ed that “It is in the best interests of Ukraine, and the west, to end this war as soon as possible.” Christopher S Chivvis, its author, argued that “Ukraine doesn’t win this war on the battlefield. It wins by building itself into a prosperous, post-conflict democracy. ‘Western support for Ukraine has so far been extraordinary, reaching levels that almost no one could have expected just days before the war be­gan. But today’s high levels of sup­port will not last forever.’ POLL The Thursday 9 June 2022 essay argued: “Hawks in Washington con­tinue to press Joe Biden to get even more deeply involved in the war in Ukraine. They want more military equipment for Kiev and more max­imalist military and political objec­tives, which range from pushing Russia entirely out of Ukraine, to carving up Russia, to the removal of President Putin himself. Ukrainian and Russian forces are now in a slow, grinding war. Both have taken major losses, but Ukrainian casualties have been es­pecially high. In the coming weeks, Russia might consolidate its posi­tion in the eastern Donbas region, Ukraine might scrape back a little more territory, or the fighting might come to a halt. I am tempted to hope that Ukraine will fight on at least until it retakes its February borders, and perhaps beyond, regaining all the territory it lost back in the 2014 war. But the former intelligence analyst in me sees risks all around. In the best circumstances, regaining signifi­cant amounts of territory will al­most certainly require a long and protracted fight. Risk of escalation would be ever-present. Costs to America and Europe would mount. And it would be especially bad for Ukraine. The fact is, Ukraine won’t win this war with a drawn-out, ex­hausting struggle to claw a few more hectares of territory back from Rus­sia. Ukraine’s real victory is not on the battlefield, but in its post-conflict rebirth. The sooner that begins, the better. Ukraine wins by seizing the opportunity, while its still can, to immediately begin a massive, west­ern-funded reconstruction effort that turbo-charges its political and economic integration into Europe, strengthens its security, and speeds it down the path toward a democratic future. Ukraine wins by demonstrat­ing the extraordinary resilience of political and economic liberalism to the world and starting that process as soon as possible, not in five years when the country is destroyed and the world has moved on. Ukraine wins by stopping Russia from extin­guishing its independence, which so far has been miraculously pre­served, but remained at risk until the fighting stops. Ukraine wins by channeling the national energy that has been generated by the war into a better peace and a stronger, more prosperous nation. Western support for Ukraine has so far been extraordinary, reaching levels that almost no one could have expected just days before the war be­gan. But today’s high levels of sup­port will not last forever. Food and fuel costs worldwide are spiking. Nato has been unified in the first 100 days of the war, but over time divisions will emerge. Ukraine’s cause is widely viewed as just today, but the longer the war drags on, the greater the risk that moral clarity will fade”. Christopher S Chivvis commands attention. He is the director of the Carnegie Endowment’s Program on American Statecraft and a former US national intelligence officer. What about the cost to Ukraine in human lives? Just one death there has caused dismay globally, just like the wastage of the poet, Christopher Okigbo’s in Biafran uniform, near Opi Junction of the Nsukka sector. That death extinguished Roman Ra­tushny’s life. In 2013, when he was 16, Ratush­ny witnessed, in Maidan Nezalezh­nosti, Independence Square, in the centre of Kyiv the massive protest by students, against the decision by the president, Viktor Yanukovych, to go back on a special trade deal between Ukraine and the Europe­an Union. Then one that night, hundreds of anti-riot police burst into the square, hitting the protesters with sticks. As he joined the others to flee for dear life, he suffered multiple bruises. Though Yanukovych’s regime eventually fell, the new regime was also brutal and corrupt; so he be­came an activist fighting for a better Ukraine. As a paper wrote: “His field of action seemed fairly small. It was a corner of a forested ra­vine, Protasiv Yar, that ran through central Kyiv, an unexpected ribbon of green. Part of it was a complex where people could ski and go snow­boarding, but the rest was precious wilderness. Inevitably developers were interested, the city govern­ment illegally sold them a permit, and plans were drawn up to build shops and offices in 40-storey towers. This had to be stopped. Kyiv was his birthplace, a city he loved with a pas­sion, and for years his journalist fa­ther had campaigned to protect the Old Town from similar destruction. So in 2019 he set up a group called Save Protasiv Yar, which from then on became his cause and his life. He became a national hero. Early protests were mild, with pipers, fiddlers and himself with a megaphone encouraging a strag­gling band of citizens, some with their dogs, to block the road that ran by the park. But he also confronted the thugs in high-viz who guarded the building site, got pushed away and had his phone smashed. High-ups from the building company threatened to break his back and make him disappear. They began to watch his house, so for a time he moved out. Most of his fighting, though, was conducted through the courts. He had been to law school, knew how to talk to ministers, ceos and offi­cials, and had a keen sense of in­justice even before that. After the first Euromaidan rally, he was one of the plaintiffs who took its violent dispersal to the European Court of Human Rights, and won. When he defended himself in the Sternenko case he had already recruited a raft of poets, actors and writers to stand bail for him, and two international human-rights committees weighed in on his behalf. The fight for Prota­siv Yar took him in and out of court for two years, until in 2021 the park was decisively declared a green zone that could not be built on”. He volunteered on the first day of the Russian invasion, having even to form his own volunteer unit, which he called “Protasiv Yar”, and “went shopping to buy small drones to spy out Russian military positions. He was now a go-to man to organ­ise resistance, drawing in others and offering their services to any commander who could use them. Eventually he was moved into the 93rd Mechanised Brigade and, after fighting round Sumy for a while, was sent to the east”. He thrilled the world with the selfies he posted on social media. One of his messages boasted: “The more Russians we kill right now, the fewer will be left for our children to kill” (this was taken down by Face­book and Twitter). People loved his boyish face. “One post showed him in a trench in a forest, his helmet a bit askew, grinning. His grey-brown camouflage merged perfectly with the grey-brown earth. He looked at home there, among the tree roots. He had saved just such a forest, back home. This forest could not save him”. That last sentence appeared in his obituary! He was just 21 and showed much promise. On July 8, 2022, Aris Roussinos, UnHerd’s Foreign Affairs Editor, and a former war reporter wrote: “A cou­ple of weeks ago, I was smoking a cig­arette outside my hotel in Kharkiv when a Ukrainian man, hearing me speak English, came over to show me a photo on his phone. It was of his 21-year-old son who he had just buried that day, killed fighting as part of a volunteer bat­talion outside Izyum. “He was my only son,” the man told me, “I still can’t believe my line has died out. I keep calling his phone and then re­membering. Tomorrow I will join his unit and take his place.” “Though just a sad anecdote, this brief exchange highlights two opposing truths about the war in Ukraine. Firstly, that the Ukrainians possess an indomitable will to win, whatever the sacrifices involved. But the other hard truth is that the human cost to Ukraine is very steep indeed. Almost everyone you speak to asserts that the official death announcements, currently standing at 200 soldiers killed daily, are understated. “A whole gener­ation of boys is being wiped out,” the man told me. Reporting from the ground now emphasises the losses Ukraine is suffering, as outgunned troops struggle to hold their posi­tions under constant shelling”. In the absence of real on-the-ground-reporting, this one from Roussinos, could help: “The Rus­sian army, stung by its operational failures in the war’s opening weeks, has adapted its way of war, aban­doning its early attempts at grand encirclements using fast-moving armoured columns. It now relies on artillery to grind down defensive po­sitions along with the Ukrainian ar­my’s ability to resist, and then mass­es infantry and armour in localised spearheads to seize the ruins with overwhelming force, currently out­numbering the Ukrainian defenders seven to one. “Instead of sweeping pincer movements, enclosing Ukrainian positions in their armoured jaws, the Russians have adopted a “bite and hold” strategy, nibbling away at small, localised targets with the seeming confidence that time is on Moscow’s side. As the RUSI paper observes, “although Ukrainian troops are much better motivated, Russian numerical superiority and the ability to kill Ukrainian forces with artillery as they manoeuvre mean that Ukrainian units continue to cede ground and to pay dispropor­tionately on the offensive”. “At the heart of Russia’s local successes in the Donbas lie Mos­cow’s vast advantages in artillery firepower, making up for the lack­lustre quality of its infantry, which won such mockery — and perhaps stoked a dangerous over-confidence — from Western observers earlier in the war. Man for man, the Ukrainians remain better soldiers, but they’re now being killed in unsustainable numbers without ever seeing the enemy.”