LAGOS –  The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has reacted to the recent resignation of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad over alleged ill health. In a release issued by CACOL’s Director of Administration and Programmes, Tola Oresanwo, on behalf of Mr. Debo Adeniran, the centre’s chairman, the recent report about the ex-CJN’s resignation was very laudable. The group said: “First and foremost, we would like to commend the courage of the out-gone Chief Justice of Nigeria for taking a bold step that is not too common in this part of the world. “Although he resigned due to ill health, we hope other public office holders will take a cue from this action of the ex-CJN by quitting at the right time, especially when they have been alleged to commit some official infractions or what is popularly referred to as gross misconduct.” It should be recalled that Muhammad’s resignation followed quickly on the heels of the allegations of mismanagement of funds levelled against him by 14 Justices of the Supreme Court. It was reported that the justices of the apex court, in a joint petition, had accused the ex-CJN of poor welfare, among other ill-treatment being meted out to them. In the leaked petition, the 14 Justices accused the ex-CJN of abandoning his responsibilities and diverting funds meant for the running of the Supreme Court. According to CACOL, “This is an unprecedented development in Nigeria’s judicial history and it will go down in history as one of the highlights of the tenure of the outgone CJN. -Advertisement- POLL “But, the man in the eye of the storm, Justice Muhammad in a statement by his aide, titled, ‘Re: State of Affairs in the Supreme Court and Demand by Justices of the Supreme Court’, denied the allegations. “We at CACOL would like to state expressly that all the allegations leveled against the outgone CJN should be thoroughly investigated by the Nigerian Judicial Council (NJC), the Code of Conduct Tribunal and the various anti-corruption agencies in the country, swift prosecution should as well follow and he should be punished if found guilty of any of the allegations so as to deter others.” The CACOL boss added, “We would also like to congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola on his appointment as the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. We urge him to live above board and write his name in gold by carrying out extensive reforms in the judiciary that will facilitate speedy dispensation of justice like we have in other climes while carrying along other supreme court Justices.”