ABUJA – A member of the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative-NEITI Board, Professor Damilola Olawuyi SAN has been appointed to the United Nations Working Group on Business and Human Rights. Professor Olawuyi’s appointment was announced at the 50th Regular Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council held in Geneva. Mrs Obiageli Onuorah, Head, Communications and Stakeholders’ Management of NEITI, who made this known in a statement noted that in his congratulatory message, the Chairman of the NEITI Board, Mr. Olusegun Adekunle described the appointment as another bold statement on the competence and integrity of Nigerians to serve the international community at sensitive positions. “I am not surprised at the news. Since his appointment to the NEITI Board, Prof. Olawuyi has brought knowledge and intellect to bear in defining new reform initiatives for Nigeria’s extractive industry. We are proud of his achievement. The Executive Secretary of NEITI, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji lauded Professor Olawuyi’s appointment. According to Dr. Orji, “This is another confirmation of the sterling capacities of the men and women in NEITI both as staff and as members of the Board. He added that Professor Olawuyi is currently leading the review of the NEITI Act and has demonstrated profound knowledge of the extractive industries in the discharge of this assignment. He expressed delight on the growing confidence of international community on Nigerians to handle challenging issues.”.Professor Olawuyi was appointed to the NEITI Board by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2021. He is also currently the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD). -Advertisement- POLL A prolific scholar and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, with expertise in petroleum, mining, energy, environment, business and human rights law, Prof. Olawuyi has published over 150 articles and books on all aspects of sustainable development in the extractive industries. This is not the first international appointment for Prof. Olawuyi. In 2020, he was appointed by the African Union (AU) to serve on the AU Working Group on Extractive Industries, Environment and Human Rights Violations. Professor Damilola Olawuyi’s appointment is for a period of six-years and he would be Africa’s representative on this prestigious body, a position that was most recently occupied by the Former Attorney General of Kenya, Mr. Githu Muigai. Amongst other functions, the Working Group formulates recommendations and proposals to the UN Human Rights Council on the appropriate measures and activities for the prevention and reparation of violations of human and peoples’ rights by industries. It also works with countries to strengthen transparency, accountability, and access to information in business activities and operations. The United Nations Working group on Business and Human Rights was established in 2011 through the UN Resolution 17/4. The Body looks at the issues of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises. The expert body has a mandate to promote the effective and comprehensive dissemination and implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) through country visits, capacity building and dialogue with governments, civil society and stakeholders in the business sectors.