JOY ANIGBOGU To boost Women Economic Empowerment (WEE), address issues of gender parity, increase Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through increased participation of women in economic activities and policy making has spurred Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and some arms of government to begin to pay attention to gender issues. On the 5th of July, 2022, the development Research and Projects Centre (dRPC) launched the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Framework for the Implementation of Women Economic Empowerment policies in Nigeria. The development of the Framework, which took about one year, with many workshops and seminars involving Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and relevant CSOs working in Women’s Economic Empowerment in Nigeria. A lot of work went into the production of the document through the constructive contributions of various agencies involved in the implementation of Women Economic Empowerment projects and programmes in Nigeria. Dr Lawal Zakariya, the Director, National Monitoring and Evaluation Department, Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, while presenting the Results Framework and Monitoring Plan, said that the M&E Framework was developed for the systemic delivery of the WEE interventions in Nigeria from 2022 to 23. “This Framework contains a series of individual frameworks designed to monitor the actions required to drive the achievement of seven strategic imperatives, with actions defined based on the set of recommendations articulated under each strategic imperative. “The baselines and planned targets were obtained from the responsible Women’s Economic Empowerment implementing Ministries, Departments and Agencies which worked collaboratively to develop this Framework. POLL The key result areas, indicators and planned targets are all linked to one another and ultimately drive towards achieving accountability and the broader target of this Framework for Women’s Economic Empowerment,” he said. Zakariya added: “This Monitoring and Evaluation Framework covers WEE related projects being implemented at the Federal level and is adaptable to interventions at the State and LGA levels. “Specifically, the WEE M&E Framework shall cover regular conduct of Evaluation of WEE interventions in Nigeria under five types of evaluation, Diagnosis Evaluations, Implementation Process Evaluation, Impact Evaluation, Economic Evaluation and Evaluation Synthesis,” he said. Zakariya further said that the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPISS) will provide policy support and guidance to key stakeholders both in government and outside government in the implementation of the WEE Projects implementation and related matters and any other assigned function that will facilitate the implementation of WEE in Nigeria. While launching the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the Implementation of the Women’s Economic Empowerment policies in Abuja, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, said the government is prioritising the advancement of women in all spheres of society and specifically in areas relating to their socio-economic empowerment. He said: “As we all know, Monitoring and Evaluation is an important aspect of projects and policies development and successful implementation as it avails the implementer the knowledge of the progress of the interventions. “I do not doubt that, if properly implemented, the WEE Monitoring and Evaluation Framework will contribute immensely to supporting effective data gathering on WEE Initiatives of the Government in a manner that will help the government take informed decisions and actions that will support the holistic development of the country as envisaged by the government plans,” the Minister said. Dr Stanley Ukpai, the Director Projects, development Research and Projects Centre (dRPC) funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, noted that the launching of the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework on WEE will help create synergy within MDAs on their programmes, policies and budget on WEE. “We want MDAs to take this document and run with the framework launched today and make sure that every MDA has a component that looks at monitoring and evaluation. That way, we can evaluate what impact these programmes and policies are having on Nigerian Women,” Ukpai said. While speaking on the benefits of the M&E Framework launched, the National Coordinator of Partnership for Advancing Women in Economic Development (PAWED) Coalition and National President of National Association of Women Entrepreneurs (NAWE), Bar Veronica Ndanusa, said that if the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework launched is followed to the latter, the document will revolutionise development in Nigeria especially as it concerns women. Ndanusa said: “It will ensure that there will be strategic mapping of projects before they are initiated. Also there will be proper Evaluation and Monitoring of the same projects. They will also impact assessments, ensure that projects on women are beneficial to them maximally, so that international donors will have a document to work with. “This M/E Framework launched today, will make the government not to grope in the dark without knowing which projects will be beneficial to women. The launch of the document is a wonderful development if we can follow it to the latter, especially now that NGOs and CSOs can monitor and evaluate projects initiated by the government,”Ndanusa added. Meanwhile, the M&E Framework for WEE was launched alongside the awards of certificates and cash prizes to four female journalists for writing the best Women Economic Empowerment feature stories. The competition organised by the development Research and Projects Centre (dRPC) and sponsored by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation received 12 stories on Women’s Economic Empowerment issues after holding a training programme for selected journalists. Four stories emerged the best out of the 12 entries. In the print and online category, Tina Abeku of Guardian Newspaper with the story “Knocks over poor access to Nigeria’s N154bn WEE interventions” came first with N200,000 cash award, Grace Obike of The Nation Newspaper came second with the story, “Ogbonge women: Lending to Transform Women’s Lives” which earned her a cash prize of N150,000. A reporter with 120edgenews, an online news platform, Victoria Onehi’s story, ‘’220Bn MSMEDF: Assessing Disbursements to Women Based on CBN’s 60:40 Ratios” came third with a cash prize of N100,000. In the broadcast category, Temitope Mustapha of Voice of Nigeria (VON) with the story “What a man can do a woman can do better”, though the only entry for broadcast category, was awarded N150,000. To further encourage the four journalists who were honoured, dRPC aside giving them cash prizes also presented certificates of commendation to them. While presenting the awards to them, the National President of the Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) Mrs Ladi Bala, who was represented by Glory Ohagwu of Voice of Nigeria, said that the awardees had put in their best to come up with the stories. She enjoined them to keep doing more investigative Women Economic Empowerment (WEE) stories to help liberate women from poverty in the long -run. Mallam Hassan Karofi, the Director, Communications and Partnerships, dRPC said that the Centre came up with the competition to encourage more journalists reporting on gender to bring issues of Women’s Economic Empowerment to the fore.