ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday, took a swipe on Nigerians, say­ing they are just a bundle of so many contradictions, far away from their religious beliefs. His message came on the heels of the Eid-el Kabir festiv­ities celebrated by Muslims all over the world. His message directly reso­nated on Nigerians of all faiths, saying that “if we are putting the teachings of our religions into practice, most of the evils afflicting our society would have been solved.” According to the President, “religion shouldn’t just be used as a mere badge of identity, but as a motivator for doing good for our country and humanity.” He explained that “the exploitation of the people by traders and the stealing of public funds by civil servants and other holders of public trust is a reflection of the aban­donment of the teachings of our religions.” “Our society is a bundle of contradictions. People display external religiosity without fear of God; they make life difficult for others; money becomes their god; leaders abandon their oaths of office by taking money meant for the welfare of the people and divert it to their private pockets,” he said. He called on Nigerians to put the interest of the country above selfish interests and “use religion asamotivation for the love of our common humanity.” He also congratulated the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and the world on the occasion of the Eid, citing for special mention, “the brave men and women in uniform fighting terroronmany fronts and their families, as well as others held hostage and kept away from their families by wicked and heart less terrorists.” POLL He used the occasion to call on all Muslims to reflect on the significance of the sacrifice epit­omised by Eid. According to the President,  “We should show love and care to our neighbours and others while celebrating this spiritual­ly important event in our lives.” President Buhari also advised Muslims “to promote the good virtues of Islam through person­al examples and practice, adding that “Muslims should avoid as­sociation with violent extremist ideas that have wrongly given Islam a negative image or poor perception.” On the current security chal­lenges and costs of living in the country, President Buhari as­sured Nigerians that“ I won’t rest until I bring relief to Nigerians,” adding that “I am quite aware of the difficulties people are facing and working to resolve them.” He said that this Eid will be a source of blessing, peace, pros­perity and safety for all Nigeri­ans, stressing that coexistence and stability will prevail in the country.