The crisis rocking the Public University Sector in Nigeria has taken a new dimension as the members of the Senior Staff Association of Universities (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) rejected the report of the Professor Nimi Briggs-led renegotiation committee submitted to the Federal Government for approval. It could be recalled that in a bid to forestall the crisis in the university sector the Briggs Committee was set up in March by the Federal Government to oversee the negotiations with the four university-based unions and submitted its report to the Education Minister, Malam Adamu Adamu, over a month ago. Reacting to ye development at a joint press conference held on Friday, NASU General Secretary, Peters Adeyemi, and SSANU National President, Mohammed Ibrahim insisted that they would not be bound by the recommendations of the committee which was set up by the Federal Government to end all strikes across the nation’s universities. According to the unions under the aegis of the Joint Action Committee (JAC), they never concluded negotiations with the committee before it submitted its recommendations to the government for implementation, stressing that such an action was a betrayal. They, however, vowed to reject any salary increment in the university system that would further widen the gulf between teaching and non-teaching staff. They said, “The Minister of Labour and Employment in his various statements, had exposed the fact that a report had been prepared and presented to the Federal Government by the Briggs Committee. “The Committee which had clear Terms of Reference to renegotiate with the University-Based Unions, chose to solely review the salary and submit its report on the strength of its conclusion, surreptitiously allocating a salary increment to the two Unions even without having a single discussion on the issue with them. “This is tantamount to shaving a man’s head behind his back. This is an utmost breach of faith and infringement of collective bargaining processes. POLL “The committee negotiated fully with one union and did not do full negotiations with the other unions. “We don’t need to go to the market to begin to make announcement to say that it is biased and that so called interim report is not a report that is binding on all because we have not done our negotiations. “The two unions have presented salary tables for renegotiations. They should have negotiated that salary table with us. Nothing has been done in that regards. “It is therefore shocking, to say the least, that while we have not even commenced discussions on salary review and other allowances, we received reports that the Committee had gone ahead to submit a report to the Federal Government recommending a ten percent (10%) increase for Non-Teaching Unions.”