OSOGBO – Voters and other stakeholders on Saturday commended the Independent National Elec­toral Commission (INEC) for the introduction of BVAS machines even as the gover­norship election in Osun State was generally peaceful except for some pockets of disrup­tion of the exercise in some polling stations. The incumbent gover­nor, Adegboyega Oyetola of All Progressives Congress (APC) contested along with 14 others, including Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP), for the plumb job. Others candidates are Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi of Accord Party, Arch. Goke Omigbodun of Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Hon. Lasun Yusuf of the Labour Party, among others. Oyetola along with his wife, Kafayat, cast their votes at Unit 2, Ward 1 LA Primary School, PopoIragbiji, while his main rival, Adeleke voted at Ward 2, Unit 9 Abogunde/ Saga, Ede South local govern­ment. The election was general­ly peaceful, except for a few pockets of disruptions of voting in some areas. There was also improve­ment in security networking across the state, which created fear in the minds of anybody that had wanted to cause trou­ble. Oyetola, speaking with journalists shortly after vot­ing, advocated for an increase in the number of BVAS ma­chines to each unit to make the process of voting faster. According to him, “con­sidering the time frame we have for voting, there is a need to speed up or increase the number of machines so as to ensure that the process is completed within the time frame.” POLL While commending the security agents for being alive to their responsibility, Oyetola noted that they had done creditably well. “Seeing the enthusiasm that voters have displayed to cast their votes, I’m particu­larly very grateful to them and that shows that people are conscious of the need to participate in the process. “Once the process is transparent enough, people will not be persuaded to vote, there will be no voter apathy.” Oyetola, however, ex­pressed confidence that he would be reelected by the grace of Almighty God. The PDP candidate, Adeleke, said his people loved him and asked him to cast his vote early, saying the process was okay. However, some EFCC officials stormed Oyetola, Adeleke’s Units at Iragbiji, and Ede respectively to moni­tor allegations of vote buying. No fewer than six officials of the anti-graft agency were sighted at Ward 1, Unit 1, St Peter’s Anglican School, Irag­biji, where the governor cast his vote. The officials wore their jackets branded with EFCC inscriptions and drove their official vehicles to the area. The presence of the an­ti-graft operatives, it was gathered, was to discourage vote-buying. They were also sighted at Unit 9, Ward 2, Abogunde/ Sagbe in Ede North local gov­ernment area of state where the PDP candidate, Adeleke, cast his vote. Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Owoeye, voted at Bolorunduro Oro Ajimoko Primary School, Unit 6, Ward 10, Ilesa East Local Govern­ment Area. All other stakeholders who participated in the elec­tion, such as former Minister of State for Defence, Erelu Olusola Obada, Hon. Oluwole Oke, a member of House of Representatives, among oth­ers, lauded INEC on the intro­duction of BVAS machines. Immediate-past governor of Osun State and now Min­ister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, could not sight­ed throughout the election as information reaching the media revealed that he was not in town. But, Bayo Adeleke, Osun State Commissioner for Lo­cal Government and Chief­taincy Affairs, argued that the BVAS was too slow and disenfranchised a lot of vot­ers. According to him, many voters were embarrassed when their names were pasted and BVAS said, ‘No’. So many felt bad about it. As at time of filling this re­port, collation of results had commenced and waiting for official announcement of the winner as INEC promised to release results 12 hours after the poll. Poll Witnesses Open Vote-Buying, Selling Meanwhile, a coalition of over 80 civil rights organisations under the aegis of the Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room on Saturday raised doubts over the credibility of the governorship election following alleged public sale and buying of votes. The organisation said that although priority voting was given to the elderly and per­sons with disabilities in most of the polling units, “a few of the polling units were locat­ed in places with staircases, making it inaccessible to peo­ple with crutches.” The NCCSR raised the issues in its second prelimi­nary statement signed by its Co-conveners, Ene Obi, As­ma’u Joda and James Ugo­chukwu. The statement read: “There was open negotia­tion of buying and selling of votes well-coordinated by the polling agents in many of the polling units. “There were no com­plaints from any of them against each other. Codes and coupons were used to extract commitments from voters as opposed to the blatant money exchanging hands observed in the Ekiti State governor­ship election. “From Situation Room’s observations, no violence has been recorded and the number of people who came out was encouraging. “We commend the peo­ple of the State of Osun for coming out early to cast their votes, especially the elderly who waited in queues pa­tiently. “INEC’s deployment of materials and personnel should also be commended. Vote trading was recorded in most of the areas observed particularly outside Osogbo. As voting continues, we call on all stakeholders to main­tain the peaceful atmosphere recorded so far.” The organisation also said Osun State had witnessed a high rate of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) collection, re­cording a total of 1,518,303 as reported by INEC. They added that the vot­ing day started peacefully without any indication of the apprehension that had trailed the days preceding the election. The NCCSR said it re­ceived reports from its net­work of observers of the early arrival of materials and INEC officials in most of the polling units, which led to the early commencement of voting. “There was adequate pres­ence of security personnel across the state and deployed across most of the polling units visited. “Security personnel were friendly and professional in their approach. A number of them complained of not receiving their allowances ahead of the election. “Some of the polling units were sited in residen­tial spaces and palaces. In the polling units with large registered voters, the vot­ing areas were rowdy, im­plying that polling units with smaller numbers units are more orderly naturally. “Political party agents were present in most of the polling units observed; a minimum of four party agents and a maximum of six. “Knowledge of voting procedures and civic edu­cation of voters was very poor. Voting cubicles in many of the polling units were not positioned to en­sure the secrecy of the bal­lots, making it possible for voters to flash their votes to other people. “The BVAS were de­ployed according to the number of registered vot­ers. In polling units with over 1,000 voters, INEC kept to its promise to de­ploy two BVAS machines. The machines functioned credibly well. “There were issues with the fingerprint verifica­tions, however, the facial capture worked very well, recording approximately one minute for accreditation and voting in Osogbo and in outside areas, it took longer.”