NSIKAK EKANEM Although Umo Eno, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Akwa Ibom State, and the party are battling multiple court cases arising from the party’s process of nominating its candidate for the 2023 governorship election, the one with apparent potential to shake and shape the next governorship election in the state is the litigation instituted on June 7 at the Federal High Court, Uyo Division, by Akan Okon, the immediate past commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport in the state. Okon was the first runner-up at the PDP governorship primary held at Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo on May 25. Eno’s O’ level certificates that he claimed to get in 1981 and 1983, which have over the years constituted integral contents of the curriculum vitae of the former Group General Manager of Norman Holdings Limited, will now become specimens for judicial interpretation to ascertain whether they are real or fake. His date(s) of birth will also be subjected to judicial verdict. Titled FHC/UY/CS/110/2022, Eno is the 2nd defendant, while the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are 1st and 3rd defendants respectively. In a 19-paragraph statement of claim deposed to by the plaintiff’s lawyers, Uche Awa (SAN), Chu Adizua Okoroafor, Pon Ogbonna, Mfonobong Okon and Chinedu Awa, the plaintiff alleged that Eno was not qualified to vie for the Akwa Ibom State governorship position “and by that virtue, ought not to have been cleared by” the PDP’s governorship screening committee to participate in the party’s governorship primary. The plaintiff contended that the immediate past Lands and Water Commissioner was “cleared in error as he presented forged West African School Certificates said to have been issued to him in 1981 and 1983 respectively”. Okon also accuses Eno of forging his voter card. Okon, who served the Akwa Ibom State government as commissioner in no fewer than four different ministries since 2013 before he resigned recently to seek the PDP’s governorship ticket, is also alleging that his former colleague in the state Executive Council has multiple dates of birth. In what could be said to be documentary equivalent of blood screening, Okon, in his averment through his lawyers, presented laboratory analysis of the alleged forged documents, alleging that “the West African General Certificate of Education presented by” Eno to the PDP governorship screening committee bears 15725119, “whereas all the candidates that wrote West African Examination Council General Certificate of Education, Ordinary Level in 1983 do have the first two digits as 06 not 15”. -Advertisement- POLL The statement of claim added: “The signature of Chairman of Council and Registrar of Council on the certificate of the 2nd defendant are all boldened but other certificates issued by West African Examination Council for that year do not have boldened signatures of the principal officers of West African Examination Council. The implication is that the certificate of the 2nd defendant has computer generated signatures of the Chairman and Registrar of the examining body. “When certificate presented by the 2nd defendant to the Governorship Screening Committee of the 1st defendant is compared with genuine certificates issued by the examining body, it will be noticed that the letter CD and PO are the only boldened items, the alphanumeric that follow are not boldened as seen on the certificate presented by the 2nd defendant. “Photocopy of the certificate presented by the 2nd defendant to the Screening Committee of the 1st defendant fails to show the security background of the examining body. It only shows a white background.” On the allegation that Eno’s West African School Certificate of 1981 is also forged, Okon further asserted that the PDP governorship candidate’s certificate has 15520232, “whereas all the candidates that wrote West African School Certificate Examination in June 1981 have their examination number staring with 09 and not 15. “The signature of Chairman of Council and the Registrar of Council on the certificate of the 2nd defendant are all boldened but other certificates issued by West African Examination Council for that year do not have boldened signatures of the principal officers of West African Examination Council. The implication is that the certificate of the 2nd defendant has computer generated signatures of the chairman and registrar of the body. “When the certificate paraded by the 2nd defendant to the Governorship Screening Committee of the 1st defendant is compared with genuine certificates issued by the examining body, it will be noticed the letter SC and SG are the only boldened items, the alphanumeric that follow are not boldened as seen on the certificate presented by the 2nd defendant. “Photocopy of this certificate paraded by the 2nd defendant to the Committee of the 1st defendant fails to show the security background of the examining body. It only shows a white background.” Alleging that Eno, whose voter’s card is said to be dated May 30, 2014, “never registered to be issued with voter’s card and do not have voter’s card”, the plaintiff also observes that all voters card issued by INEC to those that applied in 2014 “have particulars, including photographs of holders of the voter’s card in the server of the 3rd defendant and once the name and date of birth of the holder of the voter’s card are fitted into the 3rd defendant’s database, the name, date of birth (as supplied) and the picture of the person which were duly captured will come out. This is not the case in the 2nd defendant voter’s card.” Okon, therefore, concluded that the voter’s card of Eno “is printed by a road side printer”. Regarding Eno’s date of birth, the plaintiff contented that the 2nd defendant “has three dates of birth.” According to Okon, January 1, 1964 is indicated “On the purported voter’s card presented” by Eno while April 24, 1964 is shown on his profile and credentials he presented “at his screening when the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly screened him to be appointed as a Commissioner into the Executive Council of Akwa Ibom State.” The plaintiff also mentioned that the 58th birthday anniversary of the pastor-turned-politician, on which he was congratulated by his friends, including the immediate past National Legal Adviser, Emmanuel Enoidem, indicated that he was born on April 25, 1964. Hinging on the allegations, Okon sought the declaration of the court that Eno is not qualified to be elected into the office of the governor and that PDP is not entitled to present him (Eno) to INEC as governorship candidate. Claiming that the votes recorded for Eno were invalid and that he scored the highest votes among qualified aspirants that participated in the PDP governorship primary, the banker-turned-politician is also seeking an order of the court for the PDP to present him to INEC to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming governorship election in Akwa Ibom. When the matter was first mentioned in the court on June 21, though the court confirmed that all parties in the matter had been served with the originating summons, the defendants were yet to file their defence. Chief Assam Assam, who represented Eno told the court that they are still within time to file statement of defence, and when counsel to the plaintiff, Grant Osu, asked the court to abridge the time within which the defendants have to file their defence in consideration of 180 days duration that the matter is allowed to last in the court, Assam retorted that since the plaintiff was aware of the limited time the matter has to be dispensed with he should have approached the court a day after the governorship primary was conducted. The rule of the court is that defence must be filed within 30 days of being served originating summons. However, the court presided over by Justice Anulika Agatha Okeke did not grant the plaintiff’s request. The matter was adjourned till July 18. Meanwhile, as it is usual in politics, even as the matter is pending in court, the law suit has given rise to wide speculations just as there is disquiet in the camp of the ruling party in Akwa Ibom. Guesswork abound that Eno’s candidature may be considered for substitution on the assumption that the PDP does not want to take chances in the governorship election in a state that remains one of the strongholds of the party. There are also fears that opposition parties may be keeping the allegation of forgery in the cooler to be served at appropriate time, especially in event of PDP winning the forthcoming governorship election with the candidature of Eno. Given the criminal nature of the allegation, irrespective of what would be the outcome of the matter in court, there is also apprehension that either as a political machination or act of observing the rule of law, Eno may be prosecuted for alleged forgery. While the PDP is said to be at a crossroads as to whether to ask Eno to voluntarily withdraw from the race or not, it was gathered from impeccable sources closed to Governor Udom Emmanuel and Okon that efforts made so far by the former for the latter to drop the case has not been yielding result. However the matter goes in court, SUNDAY INDEPENDENT can authoritatively assert that if Eno’s candidature in the PDP remains, the allegation of forgery will remain a single factor, outside what would be the substance of the main election, that will determine the party and person that will have the mandate of the people to become the next governor of the state.