ABAKALIKI – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State said it had suspended three members of the State Working Committee of the Party for a period of one month, over alleged infractions. Those suspended are: the State vice Chairman, Barrister Ifeanyi Nworie; the Publicity Secretary, Nwoba Chika Nwoba; the legal Adiser, Barrister Mudi Erhenede; the Treasurer, Barrister Obinna Iteshi The embattled State PDP Chairman, Mr Tochukwu Okorie, disclosed this on Tuesday, while briefing Journalists, on the resolution of the Party’s SEC meeting held on Monday, at the party’s State secretariat in Abakaliki. Okorie said their suspension followed a petition brought before the State Working Committee by one Hon Akuri Eze Reuben of Akaezeukwu ward in the State. Okorie said: “SEC received a memo for the ratification of the suspension of certain persons. The memo was based on the Decision of the State Working Committee following a petition brought by one Hon. Okuri Eze Reuben of Akaezeukwu ward against the following persons: Barr. Ifeanyi Nworie, Mr. Nwoba Chika Nwoba, Barr. Mudiaga Erhenede and Barr. Obinna Iteshi. “The above-named persons are accused of infractions as outlined in Section 58 (1) of the constitution of the PDP 2017 as amended. The petitioner had also attached a sworn affidavit in support of his petition. “SEC unanimously approved and ratified the suspension for the period of one month as presented in the memo. “For the avoidance of doubt, Barr. Ifeanyi Nworie, Mr. Nwoba Chika Nwoba, Barr. Mudiaga Erhenede and Barr. Obinna Iteshi have been suspended from the party for a period of one month beginning July 4, 2022 in line with the extant provisions of the Constitution of the PDP. -Advertisement- POLL “Accordingly, the suspended members are barred from every activity of the party during the period of the suspension. They have also been referred to the State Disciplinary Committee for further hearing on the petition. “They are advised to avail themselves of the opportunity of the sittings of the Disciplinary Committee to defend themselves in line with the rules of fair hearing. “Meanwhile all documents and properties of the party in their possession must be returned no later than Friday July 8, 2022.” Recall that a faction of the PDP SEC in the State led by the Vice Chairman, Barrister Ifeanyi Nworie, had on Monday, announced the suspension of the Chairman, Mr Tochukwu Okorie, for one month, over alleged misconduct.