ENUGU – The Candidate of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Enugu North Senatorial, Ambassador Ejike Eze, has said that his constituents should recall him if he fails to meet their expectations within two years of election. Eze, a retired Career Diplomat and former Senior Special Assistant on Protocol and Security to former President Olusegun Obasanjo said this in Nsukka on Friday during the unveiling of his 12-page senatorial manifesto booklet tagged “Agenda for Credible Representation”. The Senatorial candidate said his mission in Senate was to initiate, sponsor and support progressive bills and resolutions that would bring the needed dividends of democracy to the people of Enugu North district. “I offer myself to represent the good people of the district in my clarity of purpose and belief in good leadership that will serve the purpose of the people. “I believe as a career diplomat and a grassroots person that I have all it takes to impact positively on constituents and move the district forward. “I will give quality and effective representation to the district, if after two years in Senate I didn’t meet expectations of the district, you have the right to recall me,” he said. He said if elected in the 2023 general elections he would champion empowerment programmes that would boost the welfare of people as key essence of government. “I will provide empowerment to our people especially our teeming youths who are yearning for the good life, will top the list of my concern and consideration in the Senate. POLL “I will invest in the education of our children and empowerment of women in the district to enable them to assist their husbands in the family upkeep. “I will use my contacts, network, goodwill, clout and influence as a diplomat who has travelled over 35 countries in the world and retired meritoriously in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs to achieve this,” he said.The candidate expressed appreciation to thousands of party faithful, friends, associates and well wishes who travelled from far near to attend the event. Eze used the event to name Chief Eva Asadu, former APC Enugu State Publicity Secretary as Director General of his campaign. He said the choice of Asadu was after much consultations with stakeholders in the area who described him as a grassroots politician In a remark, Asadu expressed appreciation to Eze for finding him worthy to be his campaign DG and pledged that he would work hard to ensure the victory of the senatorial candidate in 2023. The DG solicited cooperation of stakeholders and party faithful in the district since he can’t do it alone. °All party faithful of APC in the district must work as a team not only to achieve victory for Eze but to ensure that all the party candidates in the district emerge victorious in 2023 general elections,” he said. Speaking while unveiling the manifesto Chief Ugochukwu Agballa, Chairman of APC in Enugu State who was represented by Mr Solomon Akor the Publicity Secretary of the party in the State commended the rich content of Eze’s manifesto. Agballa said that, the party was working hard day and night in Enugu State to ensure that all the party candidates achieved landslide victory in 2023 general elections.