Duro Kuteyi, the National President of the Association of Food and Agro-Processors (AFAP), and also the Chief Executive Officer of Spectra Industries Limited, in this interview with SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE, speaks on the need for government at all levels to give some protections to SMEs for the players to survive. Excerpts: What brought about the Association of Food and Agro-Processors (AFAP)? The association came onboard because the sector is neglected. People talk about raw agricultural commodities, they talk about the big industries but not much is said about the food processing sector. If you look at the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) sector you will see that it is more of food processing one way or the order; someone making plantain chips, potato chips, zobo, beverages and the rest. These are the areas you can see SME and if this area is neglected that nobody is talking about them, about the raw material availability, and how the raw material will get to them and the likes, then we need an association like this. At this critical time they need to be taken care of by the government. Most of them that are in the SMEs sector are using grains like sorghum, soya, millet and so on. They are processing grains into food, supposing these people are regularly supplied with grains, they will continue with their business life and a lot of people will be kept in their employment. -Advertisement- POLL Government has a lot of grains in their reserve and these grains need to be turned into nutritious food like combining sorghum and soya, maize and soya and the likes that could take care of the daily balance diet. It is also the SMEs that are involved in perishable items. For example, the government was deeply concerned about tomato wastage and it was the SME who came to the rescue. We designed a programme based on the call by the government on wastage of tomato and the project is about training people on how to process tomatoes. It is called proximate processing, which is to process close to the farm which will definitely reduce the loss. How far has the training gone? We trained people in Kano, Kaduna, Owerri, Lagos and Abuja on tomato processing which is to assist the government and the farmers in reducing wastage. We trained more than 5000 youths and women on tomato processing and some of them have started processing in all the places we trained them. So, these are the things that brought about this association. With the association more can be done in terms of training people, in terms of keeping people employed and having a lot of processed food on the shelf. Another thing we did in this association is to assist students in getting Industrial Attachment (IT) in which we have done. A lot of them come to me in the hope of getting IT and you know there is a limit to what a man can do, so we now use the association to make requests from some of our members who need IT students to work with them for a period of three months to one year. One thing that we observed is that their lecturers don’t come to supervise them and when I asked them they said ITF does not pay them the allowance for them to travel and that is why they have not been coming. This is something that we need to let the ITF and the government know that we have done our own best and it is left for them to fund what they are supposed to fund, they take money from the industries and to now pay for the supervising is a problem. Where does the money go? Are there measures put in place by the association to ensure that members are doing the right things in terms of hygiene and following due process in their processing? Yes. Members of our association are doing the right things because they have the opportunity and if they don’t know anything they should ask and at the same time we liaise with NAFDAC and SON to ensure that all is well. We also train in complete food processing in collaboration with Obafemi Awolowo University and this is another added advantage for being a member of the association. Are there sanctions for anyone found wanting? No, because these people understand that if you deceive someone today you may not be lucky to deceive the person the next day because it is like this is my product you buy it I open it and it is not good the person will not go back to buy again. They all know this and everybody wants to produce and export because they know that it is a serious business, everybody wants to make their best. In terms of export, is there assistance you give your members in terms of training and ensuring that they meet the specifications? That is why we have SON and NAFDAC and we also let them know that export is a serious business because if you take a product to another country and it is not good, then it will have a serious effect on the country. So, everybody tries to maintain good quality and now what we are still running after is the question of volume; to be able to produce enough to be sold in Nigeria and still have enough to still sell outside. This requires a lot of capital in terms of equipment in terms of getting raw material at constant price. It is important for the government to look at assisting the MSMEs to secure grains from the strategic grain reserves that will be enough to produce throughout the year. What would you say is the main challenge of food processors in the country? We don’t have enough raw materials to guarantee all year round processing. For example if you say grains, grains can be preserved in a way that you can draw it till another harvest is ready. If the local and state government can be alive to their responsibility in terms of agriculture then they should marry it with food processing, like you want to grow pineapple in your state, you should grow it and establish the processing system whereby you can process the fruit into slices, pieces, the same with all other fruits. What is your advice for intending processors? My advice is that they should understand what they are going into. Check for the kind of raw material that you will need, the packaging that you will need and then the market you are entering because the multinationals are there and it is war. The Nigeria market is a war between the SMEs and the multinationals. The multinationals know that what you produce is small but at the same time they are not ready to allow any small competition. They go to the extent of offering incentives that will make distributors not to look at your side and we are also appealing to the government to give some protections to SMEs. SME really need protection if they are going to survive. This is because it’s one thing to say NAFDAC, SON will assist it is another thing to be able to sell the market. Is the association doing anything to ensure that the multinationals do not run down the SMEs? What the association is encouraging is for you to hold on to the market around you to be able to satisfy them. These multinationals are the foreigners who don’t eat what they produce; whereas SMEs eat what they produce because they believe in it and are convinced that what they are doing is good. Left to the big players they don’t want SMEs to exist, they want to crush them totally. It is something that I have experienced and I know what it means. If a multinational can go to the market and say distributors should not take my product and if they don’t take it they will give them a generator and you know what that means to an average distributor. So these are the issues we are encountering in the market we are still pushing on.