President Muhammadu Buhari has been advised to resign his position as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and stop the blame game following his admittance that his government has failed Nigerians. In a statement signed by a Public Affairs Analyst, Fredrick Adebayo and made available to Daily Independent in Makurdi on Monday argued that as the helmsman, the President should accept responsibility for the shortcomings of his team and resign. It would be recalled that in his Eid el-Kabir Sallah message to the people, President Buhari had admitted the worsening state of insecurity and corruption that has bedevilled the nation. In the message, President Buhari accused civil servants of corrupt of stealing public funds, thus crippling the economy. Buhari statement read, “They make life difficult for others; money becomes their god; leaders abandon their oaths of office by taking money meant for the welfare of the people and diverting it to their private pockets. “I am quite aware of the difficulties people are facing and working to resolve them.” Reacting to the comment, Adebayo argued that the plausible thing for President Buhari to have done was to resign from office, adding that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson resigned over far lesser issues. He said it is “Shocking! Terribly shocking to hear the chief supervisor and chief accounting officer of the nation cry in helplessness as Buhari did! Whose duty is it to instil discipline in public service and curb corruption? POLL “The next honourable thing a leader should do having accepted that he has woefully failed is to vacate his position. “British Prime Minister Boris Johnson resigned last week over far fewer issues. But here we are with a President (Buhari) under whose watch Nigerians have faced the lowest moments in the country’s history looking for who to blame.” Furthermore, he observed that “President Buhari was considered a messiah by many Nigerians before 2015. His promise to fight corruption to a standstill drew applause home and abroad. “But Nigerians are shocked at the level of corruption championed by the very government that pledged to end graft in public offices. There has been selective prosecution of corruption cases. “Recently, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arrested the Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, in connection with the diversion of funds and money laundering activities to the tune of N80 billion. “Buhari has kept sealed lips over that heist till today. Who is the President fooling? There are several other cases of stinking corruption under his nose, yet, we do not get to hear what steps he has taken to rid his government of graft. No one has been asked to resign!” “Activities of armed banditry, kidnappings as well as herders’ attacks on farming communities have continued to rise with no end in sight. “This is the reason why states across the country are devising ways of mobilizing the people to stand up and defend themselves in the face of brazen attacks by the invaders. “Here again, the initiative of the likes of Governor Ortom who introduced the Community Volunteer Guards deserves commendation. That’s a bold move to help the people take their destiny into their own hands”, he stressed. On the security situation in the country, Adebayo further noted that “Buhari also admitted in the Sallah message that his administration has failed to provide security of lives and property. He rather glorified terrorists for being daring and taking people hostage. “When he was campaigning in 2015, Buhari made the fight against corruption one of the three campaign pillars? The other two cardinal points were security and fixing the economy. “Someone needs to tell Nigerians which of the three campaign promises above the President has fulfilled? “One wonders how Mr President goes to bed and sleeps soundly knowing that the majority of Nigerians can’t find sleep. How bad can the situation get for the President to realize that he will leave the country worse than he met it? “There will be no shame if President Buhari throws in the towel and leaves now.” He further pointed out that “If anyone else had said that Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has failed the people of the country, his band of fanatical supporters would have let hell loose. “We have seen them launch attacks on courageous critics of the President like Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom whose only ‘sin’ is pointing at the areas where the Buhari administration has failed and the measures that should be taken to address the worsening security situation among other challenges bedevilling the nation. “But this time, no critic spoke. The President became his own critic when he delivered an Eid-el-Kabir message to the Muslim faithful a few days ago. Buhari admitted that his government has failed”, he stated.