LAGOS  – After a decline of N1.1 billion in May, Nigeria’s gross official reserves increased by $672 million to $39.2 billion in June. This recovery, according to analysts at FBNQuest, is seen as a welcome development. Though, some analysts believe that it is difficult to point to any key source of accretion to the reserves because the data is lagged but some gave reasons for the accretion. “In the absence of data, our guess is a likely increase in remittances and possible gains from the CBN RT200 programme which aims to stimulate foreign exchange inflows by boosting non-oil exports”, analysts at FBNQuest said. They added, “We are cautious to include proceeds from crude oil sales because the reserves did not receive much accretion from the source in prior months due to a combination of low crude oil production and a sharp rise in petrol subsidies”. Total reserves as at end-June covered 9.3 months’ merchandise imports based on the balance of payments for the 12 months to September 2021 and 7.1 months when adding services. “However, for a more accurate picture, we must adjust the gross reserve figure (and the import cover) for the pipeline of delayed external payments estimated at $1.7 billion, according to a recent report by the World Bank. “The International Air Transport Association (IATA), also recently disclosed that foreign airlines have about $450 million in funds stranded in the country. This represents about 25 per cent of international carriers’ funds held back by central banks globally. POLL Elsewhere, Egypt and South Africa both saw their official reserves decline by $2.1 billion and $618 million respectively during the month. The decline in Egypt’s official reserves is attributable to external debt service repayments. For South Africa, the drop in reserves reflects a sustained decline in the price of gold since the peak in March this year, and losses sustained on the forward swap positions which make up part of the country’s international liquid position.