ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party has been mandated to transmit the names of the candidates that emanated from its primaries election held in Ebonyi state on May 28 and 29, 2022, to the Independent National Electoral Commission without delay. Justice Fatun Riman gave the order in his judgement in a suit marked FHC/AI/CS/105/2022 filed by Chief Chukwuma Odii Ifeanyi against the PDP, Independent National Electoral Commission, and Senator Obinna Joseph Ogba. Also, the judge ordered INEC, its agents, servants and workmen among others from recognizing, in any manner whatsoever, the purported primary elections allegedly held by the PDP in Ebonyi state on the 4th and 5th of June 2022. By the judgement, Chief Chukwuma Odii Ifeanyi is now the legally recognized PDP governorship candidate for Ebonyi state. The court further granted a declaration that the Peoples Democratic Party could not have held any valid House of Assembly, House of Representatives, and Senate primaries in Ebonyi state on 4/6/2022 and 5/6/2022 and Governorship primary Selection on 5/6/2022 in the state. Consequently, Justice Riman has set aside the governorship election primaries of the PDP in Ebonyi state, held on 4th and 5th of June 2022 as well as the Governorship primary election held on 5th June, 2022 in Ebonyi state. In addition, the court held that the process leading to the purported primaries of 4th and 5th of June, 2022, was unconstitutional, and consequently set aside the primary elections of the House of Assembly, House of Representatives, and Senate of the party. Justice Riman categorically stated that over 90 percent of the 3-man ward ad-hoc delegates of thePDP did not participate on the said dates, adding that it was also not monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission. POLL By the suit, the plaintiff had asked a Federal High Court Abakiliki to set aside the primary elections.“It is hereby ordered as follows: That a declaration that the purported House of Assembly, House of Representatives, Senates and Governorship primary elections of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi state held on 4/6/2022 and 5/6/2022 is unconstitutional, null, void and of no effect whatsoever, for offending the provisions of the said extant Acts, referred to above and the valid and subsistence order of a court of competent jurisdiction is granted. “That a declaration that the Peoples Democratic Party could not have held any valid House of Assembly, House of Representatives, Senate primaries in Ebonyi State on 4/6/2022 and 5/6/2022 and Governorship primary Selection on 5/6/2022 in Ebonyi state whereat one Senator Obinna Joseph Ogba could have emerged as the Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi state as over 90% of the three-man ward ad-hoc delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party did not participate and the Independent National Electoral Commission did not monitor the said primaries is granted. “That an order of court restraining the Independent National Electoral Commission for itself, its agents, servants, workmen, etc from recognizing in any manner whatsoever the purported primary elections allegedly held by the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi state on 4/6/2022 and 5/6/2022 is granted. “That an order of court mandating the Peoples Democratic Party for itself, its agents, servants, workmen, etc to transmit the names of the candidates that emanated from the primary elections of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi State on 28/5/2022 and 29/5/2022 which said results are in the custody of the Peoples Democratic Party is granted.” Recall that the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja had, on Tuesday, ordered the retrial of an initial Federal High Court judgment which affirmed Dr Odii’s candidature. With this recent decision, the ordered retrial now becomes academic as all the live issues concerned have been addressed in the new judgment.