SYLVESTER ENOGHASE As the global energy mix is predicted to shift rapidly towards power and hydrogen, Seplat Energy Plc has continued to consolidate on its gas-to-grid power-drive to capture the available opportunities down the energy value chain to making the company as one of the most liquid companies on Nigeria Exchange Limited (NGX) to sustain the nation’s industrialisation drive. Seplat Energy Plc, listed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited and the London Stock Exchange, as well as other energy producers in Africa, is projected to grow more given the rising demand for energy in Africa. It has also paved the way for other issuers from Nigeria to use the “Seplat Model” to dual list in London and the UK. Mr. Basil Omiyi, Chairman, Seplat Energy Plc, who made these declarations on behalf of the Board and management of Seplat Energy Plc at the recent industry lecture and send forth ceremony of Dr. Ambrosie Bryant Chukwueloka (A.B.C) Orjiako, at the oriental hotel, Lekki, Lagos, applauded the pioneer Chairman for all the toils over the years to build the company brand and the achievements so far recorded whilst he led the Board for good 13 years. He said: “This year, 2022, marks a major turning point for Seplat Energy as Dr. Orjiako retires from the Board after leading the Company to achieving monumental milestones over the last 13 years, including 9 years as a listed entity. “Notable amongst these were, the IPO vision, the listing, production growth, reserve addition, corporate governance, landmark acquisitions, funding strategy, setting the stage for corporate transformation that will boost Nigeria industrialisation drive “Our Pioneer Chairman Dr ABC Orjiako, who is very well known across industries in Nigerian and abroad, has led our company to build and nurture a very rewarding relationship with our many stakeholders since the inception of Seplat Energy. -Advertisement- POLL “In 2014, Dr Orjiako led the Seplat Energy on a pioneering journey of simultaneously listing the company on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, now known as Nigeria Exchange Limited (NGX) and the London Stock Exchange (LSE). “That Seplat dual listing pioneered a new cross-border settlement mechanism to enable the free transfer of equity shares between the UK and Nigerian share registers. This helped to facilitate a strong secondary market in its shares, establishing a working relationship between the Nigeria and UK regulators, Central Securities Depositaries and stock exchanges which still exists today. “We are glad to say that this mechanism has established Seplat as one of the most liquid companies on Nigeria Exchange Limited (NGX). It has also paved the way for other issuers from Nigeria to use the “Seplat Model” to dual list in London and the UK. “In line with the theme of today’s Industry Lecture, ‘The Future of Africa Oil and Gas: Positioning for the Energy Transition’, Seplat Energy in 2021 repositioned for a more significant Sustainability impact. “We identified the critical need for the energy transition in Nigeria and our outstanding role in driving sustainable development as the leading indigenous independent energy provider. “As a result, we took steps to reposition the Company, rebranded and redefined our purpose and mission, and refocused the business as an energy solutions provider. “Today, Seplat Energy aims to drive the right energy transition suitable for Nigeria and offers excellent opportunities for our business, investors, employees, and the nation. “We have adopted a balanced approach to addressing Energy transition within the context of Sustainability that is consistent with our situation in Nigeria. “Seplat’s Energy transition programme embodies ESG commitment and mitigation of Energy Poverty in our society. It is about providing the right social benefits to drive the country’s socio-economic development”. Mr. Roger Brown, CEO, Seplat Energy Plc, in his remarks said: “This is indeed an opportunity again to laud Dr. Orjiako for his many achievements in growing Seplat Energy from its humble beginnings to its current enviable position since the birth of the Company. It’s been a huge commitment to the Seplat Energy course over the years by our amiable Pioneer Chairman. It’s been service and sacrifice all the way. “Today essentially is to celebrate Dr Orjiako, who has done tremendously well to deepen the industry and grown the company during his tenure. “The Seplat Energy Board under Dr. Orjiako’s leadership drove our corporate commitment to efficiency in project delivery, cost optimisation and robust revenue generation. Seplat Energy today is a committed, responsible, ESG/Carbon neutral advocates. “Seplat Energy has continued to consolidate on its gas-to-grid power-drive where we are industry leaders and strive to capture the available opportunities down the Energy value chain (3cents per Kwhr across our fence compared to about 60cents per kwhr at off grid end user diesel generators). Today, Seplat Energy aims to drive the right energy transition suitable for Nigeria and offers excellent opportunities for our business, investors, employees, and the nation “Dr. Orjiako drove Seplat Energy’s long-term imperative with regards to global transition away from fossil fuels towards cleaner and renewable energies, advocating a Just Transition, which is to be conducted at an appropriate pace. “That was why, the Board under Dr. Orjiako decided to re-brand the Company as Seplat Energy, which is a signal of our intent and how we see our future We want to lead this transition to gas and, beyond it, begin to develo a strong renewables business. So, we will evolve from being a company that simply extracts oil and gas to one that can create and capture value right along the energy chain, whatever the source of that energy may be. “All I have said so far summarizes Dr. Orjiako’s passion and vision; and even as he retires from the Company, we will continue to consolidate on this ethos. “We will continue to thank Dr ABC Orjiako for these years of immense service and sacrifice to the company. We wish him the best of success in his future pursuits”. Dr. ABC Orjiako, the Pioneer and immediate past Chairman of Seplat Energy, lauded all the company’s stakeholders for the huge successes recorded so far in the company since inception, saying they were products of hard-work, sleepless nights and resilience. Peter Gaius-Obaseki, Partner and Co-Lead of West Africa Oil and Gas Practice at Mckinsey & Company in his lecture on the theme: “The Future of African Oil & Gas: Positioning for the Energy Transition” explained that renewables are expected to account for 80-90% of power generation globally by 2050 He said: “There will be rising demand for fossil fuels in Africa driven by industrialisation and population growth. Energy demand growth will be led by Nigeria, and this will create tailwinds for energy suppliers like Seplat Energy, “Indigenous producers will define the future of African oil and gas, as IOCs will continue to face pressure to reduce carbon-intensive operations and lower cost of production. “Companies like Seplat Energy are well positioned to pick up producing assets going forward, provided they can maintain operational excellence. Ensuring continued access to talent will be key,” Oliver Onyekweli, Associate Partner and Co-Lead of West Africa Oil and Gas Practice, at Mckinsey & Company said: “Africa’s growing energy demand also creates opportunities for Seplat to explore renewable energy solutions (e.g. solar, blue hydrogen) “Decarbonizing production and cost leadership, McMcKinsey explained, will be key going forward as capital providers continue to reduce exposure to oil and gas, with customer’s preferencing lower carbon shipments. “As global oil demand peaks, maintaining cost leadership ($/bbl) will be increasingly vital.” “African energy infrastructure is a compelling opportunity. As the energy transition accelerates, gas will become more prominent as a “transition fuel”, especially in Nigeria. Significant domestic gas demand is a positive tailwind for Seplat Energy’s ANOH project and gas’ cleaner carbon profile (relative to diesel) should make gas projects easier to finance (can be paired with LPG). “Investing in gas export infrastructure (e.g. FLNG) could create an opportunity to access a high value international spot market” He, however, said: “the Peak demand for oil and gas has shifted closer Austin Avuru, co-founder and Ex CEO of the Seplat, while applauding Orjiako at the event said: “I must say that this relationship between me and ABC was so complementary. “I came to the party as the technical person. I have quite a lot of technical experience. By 2009 when we were talking about this I already had some 29 years of experience in the industry. “I had done 12 years in NNPC, another ten years working for an independent company, and I had run platform petroleum up to that point for eight years. So, I had a lot of experience.” Monsieur Jean-Francois Henin said: “It was a little bit more than 15 years ago, that the young gentleman who came from Nigeria and introduced by BN Paribas at the time and this gentleman was proposing to create, I think the first private joint venture in the oil business between a French Company and Nigerians operators. That was the start of the idea, the creation of Seplat.” Xavier Rolet, Ex CEO, London Stock Exchange and former Independent Non-Executive Director, Seplat Energy, said: “I think the company owes Dr. Orjiako a huge debt of gratitude in terms of getting the first dual listing of a Nigerian company on the London Stock Exchange and, of course, the Nigerian Stock Exchange. “He is a successful health care entrepreneur who has harvested in many ventures.” Speaking on what culminated into Seplat being listed in Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, Oscar N Onyema, the NSE Group CEO eulogised Orjiako as he said: “When we engaged with various oil and gas players in 2013/2014 to get them to list, Seplat indicated that they would do that. What was interesting about the Seplat listing is that it was a dual listing and the first of its kind in Nigeria, between Lagos and London, as an IPO and equity listing.”