Many Nigerians have taken a swipe at the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for picking a fellow Muslim as his running mate in the anticipated 2023 general elections. It could be recalled that since Tinubu announced the former Governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima, a fellow Muslim as the vice-presidential candidate in the forthcoming election has continued to attract controversies and backlash from political gladiators. A Kaduna-based activist, Dr Mustapha Rabo has said that the state can practice the same religion if it is the majority, but not in Nigeria, where we have Christians, Muslims, idol worshipers, Hindus, and several other hidden believers. He said, “You don’t just commando all federal resources and opportunity to one religion. This happens when people ignore the constitution of Nigeria.” He said a country without a proper record and constitution, is bound to lose its respect, as every Tom, Dick, and Harry can decide what they want, and dictate to the majority. Professor Yusufu Omajali, former Head of Department, Bayero University Kano, and now at Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, said there is a need to respect other people’s religions. Nigeria is for all, not for a group of people, not for the poor, rich, Christians, and Muslims alone, but for all, and everybody must be carried along in the scheme of things. “In a country where you have a constitution, but not obeyed, or only work for the poor, but not for the rich, you come across several characters,” he said. POLL A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Manzo Ukwugbe in Kaduna that right from the inception of the country’s political system, it has been for a Muslim-Christian presidential setting. According to him, this is done so that the two majority religions do not feel sidelined. It also showed that these bodies have representatives at the centre, where they can express their feelings, and be heard when things go wrong. Now, with the Muslim-Muslim ticket of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a Christian man who feels aggrieved, Who will he meet? Who represents him? Who decides at the national level what belongs to Christianity or equitable sharing of portfolios? Or who will then receive a Christian envoy, discuss Christian-related issues at the presidential villa?”