 The factional National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Al­liance (APGA), Mr Edozie Njoku and a Chieftain of the party in Imo State, Mr Ijere Amadi, have disagreed over the leadership crisis rocking the national lead­ership of the party. While Amadi had in a state­ment on Thursday, titled “Edozie Njoku: what the public, INEC, security agents should know”, called on the Nigeria Police to immediately arrest Njoku and his collaborators for allegedly doctoring the judgement of the Supreme Court on the Party’s leadership crisis, Njoku on his part, dismissed the allegation, saying, Amadi is not a human and doesn’t exist. The APGA factional national chairman, Edozie Njoku, lashed out at Amadi and cohorts, saying they only hell-bent on distracting him. He also said the Independent National Electoral Commission will obey a judgement of the Su­preme Court that reinstated him, soon. But Amadi, who identified himself as a founding member of APGA, said Njoku from no­where since May 9, 2022, had been parading himself as the National Chairman of the APGA, claiming that the Apex court had purportedly reviewed its earlier judgement on October 14, 2022, which affirmed Victor Oye, as the authentic Chairman of the party. He alleged that investigation at the apex court showed that Edozie Njoku doctored the judg­ment to suit his egocentricity, not­ing that contrary to the stories be­ing bandied about by Njoku, the Supreme Court never reviewed any judgment or recognised him as national chairman of APGA. “Let me ask Edozie Njoku some questions: Were the legal teams of all the parties in the suit a part of the so-called review? Was he a par­ty to the suit that was dismissed by the Supreme Court on Octo­ber 14, 2021? Did INEC monitor his so-called Convention which he claimed he held at Owerri on May 31, 2019?” Amadi queried. He further alleged that Edoz­ie Njoku had been calling unsus­pecting persons to come to him and procure forms to participate in a non-existent primary, adding, “these persons have been chasing him all over the place to recover their money. And he has gone into hiding. Should this type of igno­ble thing be allowed to happen in any decent society?”