ABUJA – All Progressives Congress (APC) elders in Benue South Senatorial District have denied the nomination of Dr Sam Ode as the running mate to the governorship candidate of APC in Benue State, Reverend Father Hyacinth Alia. The news credited the purported nomination to a recommendation from the APC elders council referred to as ‘Committee of Wise Men’. This was contained in a statement jointly signed byDistinguished Sen Ameh Ebute CON; Gen. Lawrence Onoja;Chief Stephen Lawani CFR;Alhaji Usman Abubakar;Chief Audu Ogbeh CFR;Gen. Chris Garuba;Engr. Morgan Okwoche;Chief Ameh Udoh:Prince Obande Omoi;Comrade Abba Yaro;Hon. Nick Eworo;Chief Johnson Inalegwu Agada;Chief Edwin Anyebe; andHon. Philip Achegblu which a copy was made available to newsmen in Abuja. The statement reads in parts: “The attention of the APC elders in Benue South Senatorial District has been drawn to a News item published online on 22nd July, 2022 by TheNigerian News, purporting the nomination of Dr Sam Ode as the running mate to the governorship candidate of APC in Benue State, Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia. “With the mandate of the APC elders in Benue South Senatorial District which slot it is to produce the Deputy Governorship Candidate for the party, I wish to state as follows:That the APC elders in Benue South were never consulted by anyone on the purported nomination of Dr. Sam Ode as running mate to the APC Governorship Candidate. “That no elder of the party met under any committee of Wise Men or APC Elders’ Council to do any discussion on the choice of running mate to the APC governorship candidate on 21st July 2022 as claimed in the news. “That APC Elders’ Council in Benue South Senatorial District is yet to be constituted after its dissolution by the current state working committee of the party on the assumption of office. “That Chief John Ochoga is not the Chairman of any APC Elders’ Council in Benue South Senatorial District as the Elders Council has not been constituted after its dissolution. POLL “That the purported nomination of Dr Sam Ode as contained in the news is a deliberate attempt by mischief makers to cause tension and disharmony in the party in order to undermine our victory in the coming election. “That the APC Elders are having an emergency meeting on Saturday, 23rd July 2022 to address the ugly development in order to prevent the repeat of the electoral misfortune suffered by our party in the state 2019,” the statement further stated.