The controversies arising from the unveiling of Senator Kashim Shettima as the Vice Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) may be far from over as members of the Conference of Concerned Christians of Nigeria (CCCN) have joined the array of critics condemning the appearance of some persons, who masqueraded as bishops and pastors at Wednesday’s unveiling ceremony. It could be recalled that since the former Governor of Lagos State and presidential flagbearer of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu picked Shettima, who is of the same faith as him as running mate, there have been diverse reactions in the Nigerian polity. It was an admixture of disbelief, and shock when dignitaries, including journalists, watched as some so-called bishops and pastors lined up – in what appeared like a theatrical projection of the medieval kind – to give a fake seal to the heavily-criticised same faith ticket of the ruling APC. While maintaining that the Muslim/Muslim ticket is the height of “audacious impunity”, the Christian group said only an uncultured child will seek to undermine their parents. In a statement jointly signed by its National President, Rev Bitrus Chollom, and National Secretary, Pastor James Alkali, the Christian organisation challenged the APC to disclose the names of the ‘Bishops, and their respective denominations, to allow for scrutiny. The statement warned that harsh judgement awaits those that seek to embarrass the Body of Christ, for a mess of pottage. It, nonetheless, vowed to make public the identities of all those they described as “interlopers and usurpers”, in a bid to convince Nigerians that the APC – as presently constituted – is, indeed, a scam that happened to the country. For instance, many, who witnessed the ‘show-of-shame’, wondered why true ‘men of God’, who are worth their salt, will shove and push, to gain entrance to the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, the venue of the unveiling ceremony. POLL Also on various social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, angry stakeholders in the New Nigerian Project, had described the fake attendees variously as “fake”, “charlatans”, “impostors”, “spoilers”, “interlopers”, “pretenders”, and the like. Our position is accentuated by no less a personality than a social critic and renowned pastor, Reno Omokri, who said those that showed up at the Shehu Yar’Adua event, were neither pastors nor members of the CAN. The post reads, “These are not CAN members that showed up at Tinubu’s Shettima unveiling. These are SCAM members. The real CAN members held a protest against the Muslim-Muslim ticket yesterday. The SCAM members belong to a different body! “Ask APC for their names. Ask them to show their congregations. Who do they represent? Look at the photos. “Some of them do not even know how to wear their frocks well. And by the way, what are so-called bishops doing at a political rally…?” Speaking on the development, the (CCCN) said: “We challenge Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to disclose to the world the identities of the so-called pastors and bishops, who were so unsure of themselves, by what transpired during their ‘shopping-in’.” “To the charlatans, we advise you to repent of your evil outing, denounce the choreography that characterised the event, to serve as recompense. *As a responsible body that serves to preserve the ends of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), we will deploy all legal and legitimate resources at our disposal, to unveil the veil that the detractors of Christianity thought will shield their identities. “It is unfortunate that these evil men failed to ponder over the persecution Christians are suffering in the North – especially – before embarking on this infantile journey. “May we use this opportunity to assure the CAN, and by extension, the majority of Nigerians, that the will of God will prevail come 2023, regardless of whatever gimmicks the APC and their presidential candidate may be up to. “The General elections, no doubt, will serve as a referendum on bad governance, occasioned by insecurity, biting poverty, hunger and excruciating concerns that debase humanity under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government”. We are happy that the CAN has since reacted to the charade of endorsement that happened in Abuja. In an exclusive interview with a national daily, the CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, said: “Though the bishops in question are not members of the Christian Association of Nigeria at all levels and so, they are not known to us, but the fact that they claim to be leaders of Christian churches necessitates that we clear the air and reiterate our stand against the Muslim-Muslim ticket. “Anyone can put on a cassock and claim to be a priest or a bishop. However, none of those men at the event is known to CAN as a church leader. “Some desperate politicians are only seeking to deceive unsuspecting Nigerians and hoodwink them into accepting a Muslim-Muslim ticket by hiring fraudsters to brandish as Christian clerics to ensure their unpopular decision. “Let them name the CAN officials at the programme and their offices. If they could use 2017 photos to claim that some pastors visited Shettima and lied that the CAN chairman in Borno endorsed him as a vice presidential candidate using an old interview he granted five years ago, then we are not surprised. “This one thing is clear: CAN was not part of the unveiling programme of Shettima”.