BENIN – A group of men and women across Etsako have donated the sum of N4 million to the family of the slain vigilante chairman, in Ikabigbo, Uzairue, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State, Nuredeen Yusuf who was killed by the Fulani herdsmen along with the Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Christopher Odia, a fortnight ago. The vigilante chairman was killed on June 26, 2022 by the killers of Rev. Fr. Christopher Odia on his way to rescue the kidnapped priest. Yusuf who is the chairman of Ikabigbo vigilante group was among the team that went into the forest to rescue the abducted priest of the St. Michael Catholic Church, Rev. Fr. Christopher Odia, who was also killed in the process by his abductors the same day. The leader of the Etsako group, Mr. Patrick Inobemhe, who presented the donation when he visited the village to commiserate with the affected families, described the attack as “unfortunate and dastardly.” Inobemhe said a sum of N2 million would be given to support the education of the children of the late vigilante chairman while N500,000 to be given to the mass server of the church who has been in the hospital over the injury he got for the settlement his hospital bill. He added that the sum of N300,000 is to be given to another injured victim while the remaining money would be given to Ikabigbo vigilante and other vigilantes across the area to support them in the fight again insecurity in the area. Inobemhe said a WhatApp group was formed to mobilise funds for the support of the affected victims, adding that since the incident happened nobody cared for those who were affected in the attack. “Attention of both local and international have been on the death of the Catholic Priest without anyone saying anything about the vigilante chairman who died while defending his community and the priest despite being a Muslim. POLL “This is why some sons and daughters of Etsako came together and contributed some amount of money to assist the family of the deceased vigilante boss and others who were injured during the attack on the community,” he said. Also speaking, Mr. Yakubu Musa, a member of the group, said the donation was to be used to assist the family of late vigilante chairman for staking his life to protect somebody. Musa said a total sum of N4 million was realised and the donor agreed that half of the money should be donated to the late vigilante chairman’s family for the children education. The village head of Ikabigbo, Chief Bramah Alegeh, and some vigilante leaders commended the group for its efforts at assuaging the plight of the victims. The vigilantes, however, promised to ensure adequate security of lives and property in Etsako Federal Constituency and Edo North District in general.