Akwa Ibom State Government says it is working towards a conducive and safe maritime environment that will place priority on the security of lives and investments of all stakeholders. The state government was reacting to recent cases of threats, abductions and other forms of insecurity on the waterways in the state. The Deputy Governor, Mr Moses Ekpo gave the assurance when he received a delegation of Seafarers from the intercontinental pool, Merchant Navy offshore unit, at the Government House Uyo on Friday. Ekpo said given the riverine nature of the state, the state has a lot to benefit from the merchant Navy organization, hoping that the group would bring their wealth of experience to bear in assisting the government to ensure peace and safety in the state’s vast waterways. “This Government cherishes and works closely with any entity or persons that are willing to provide us with safety in the environment which is much needed, and your organization is well suited and positioned to do this. I see your anxiety in wanting to collaborate and work with us and I assure you that this will be reciprocated.” He said He expressed gratitude to the organization for the visit and for also deeming him fit for an award which they said was due to his contributions to the growth of the state. Mr Ekpo maintained that the award will further spur him to continue to give his utmost in the service of the state and humanity. Leader of the team, Obong Chris Udofia who is also the state chairman of the League of Veteran Journalists, gave an overview of the activities of the organization adding that they were in the state for a three-day conference and to also commission a branch in the state. POLL He further disclosed that the essence of the visit was to formally announce their arrival in the state and to partner the government in ensuring a peaceful operational environment now that they are fully functional in the state. The high point of the visit was the conferment of an award of excellence on the Deputy Governor by the organisation.