Esther gave her heart to her boyfriend thinking she had found a lover, business partner, and a friend. But little did she know that the man she accepted in her life had an ulterior motive: to scam her and make her life miserable. He kept pounding on making her pregnant and said nothing about wedding her. He made it clear he wanted to have a child with her only. When he couldn’t get what he wanted, he disappeared from her life, like a mirage. Esther came back one day and found that he had gone. Now she finds it hard to trust another man; she prefers to stay single. “I was with this guy for two years, although we started out as friends and later we became business partners. I have a building I inherited from my father. It’s a two-storey building. I converted it to a hotel. So, when I met him and we became friends, he said he would like to partner with me in the business. I accepted because I needed capital to make it a standard hotel and he brought good business ideas that could give my hotel an edge in the competitive hospitality market. He told me he would bring customers and also invest in the business. Later I think I fell in love with him and, like a foolish, timid girl, I became careless with him. We lived together in the hotel because I had an apartment there. And he brought customers, mostly his friends. Some paid while some didn’t pay. “I thought the way our relationship was going that we had an understanding. In fact, I thought we would get married. But for the period we were together all he wanted was to get me pregnant. He asked me to get pregnant for him, he said he wanted us to have a child together. But he was not ready for marriage. “He didn’t want to marry now, he said, and promised that after we have had a child, we would get married, maybe in two or three years, by which time he would be buoyant enough. I refused because I didn’t want that kind of life for myself and the baby. “We started having problems when his friends checked out without paying bills that was running into millions. They said they would pay, but I found out he collected money from them and he never remitted them. One day, I came back home and he was gone. I never saw him again. I was glad that I didn’t get pregnant as he wanted, he would have abandoned me with the child. I am so heartbroken, I don’t even want to have anything to do with men again.” Dear Esther, I am glad that you didn’t accept to be a baby mama, maybe now he would have left you to cater for yourself and the baby which I am sure would have taken a toll on you. This is the time to gather yourself together to achieve a better you and not a time to slide into depression or negativity. Like I would always say, all men are not bad, there are still good men out there; the fact that one of them hurt you doesn’t mean all of them are bad. You need to be open minded and be careful with the kind of men you accept in your life. As you are now, with your financial status, many lychees will come, pretending to love you. How to know them: any man that asks you for financial assistance, any man that wants to pack and live with you willingly, and a man that never gets angry with you, no matter what you do, such a man is obviously on a mission and you must avoid such a person. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.