UYO – Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Akwa Ibom State, Comrade Ini Ememobong has tasked the next National Assembly to partner media stakeholders in regulating media Ownership in Nigeria. Such regulation, Ememobong said would help ensure a favourable welfare condition for journalists and other media workers, whom he regretted have been subjected to untold hardship due to poor welfare system. In a chat with newsmen in Uyo on Tuesday, the Information Boss said it was not necessary for any to operate a media house that lacks viability, to avoid exposing professionals to sharp practices. He therefore tasked the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to, in the interim, take steps to minimize the level of exploitation by insisting on improved welfare system for its members. In his words “The next National Assembly should look into regulating the media sector but in consultation with stakeholders “How much do these people earn, it’s a profession, these people buy from the same market. We must find a way to ensure that newspaper houses are viable, if you are not viable, you have no business being in business, else you are going to licence people to go and beg, you are going to licence people to begin to murder the integrity of others. “If a media house cannot run, there is absolutely no need for that media house to employ people and put them on the street because you are helping to spoil the profession. “How many media houses can pay regular salaries in Nigeria,? How many can fund journalists to fly to cover events, so that if they see something negative about the event, they could freely and objectively report?. POLL ” If the news source is responsible for your logistics and training, you cannot say anything wrong about him. How many journalists have gone back for post-school certification, courtesy of their employers? The media are what everyone needs to invest in. If the media is not well taken care of, it would show on the quality of reportage and at the end of the day, the nation would be worse for it”. The Information Commissioner who acknowledged the significant role journalists play in keeping the society safe and in holding government accountable to the people, also tasked the NUJ to rid itself of quacks to sanitize the profession to take its pride of place in the society. He maintained that a pliant press is harmful to the society and therefore encouraged journalists not to shy away from objectively playing their roles as watchdogs of the society, “Do not write to malign people so you do not hurt the society. I do not believe in a pliant press because they would continue to sing praises until the entire society collapses and you won’t even know that the society has collapsed, but we need a responsible press that is able to say the truth, commend the commendable and condemn the condemnable, balance your stories, pay attention to development journalism”, he advised.