…Promises To Upgrade Velodrome ABUJA – Ahead of the opening events of the African Cycling Championship held at Moshood Abiola Stadium Velodrome Complex, Sunday Dare, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, has tasked the Nigerian cyclists to do the country proud by winning the championship for the second successive time. Nigerian cyclists, it should be recalled, brushed aside the opposition from more illustrious teams like Egypt and Algeria to win the maiden edition held at the same venue three years ago. Dare believes that an encore will prove the maiden performance was no fluke. Speaking when he received visiting President of Africa Cycling Confederation Mohammed Woguih Azza, in his office Wednesday, in Abuja Dare also gave assurance of the country’s support to upgrade the facility and make an education centre for the sport in the West Africa subregion While expressing his gratitude to the CAC president for the support the country enjoys under his presidency, the minister also commended the efforts of the CFN President, Giadomenico Massari for his exemplary leadership and commitment which he said has in a short time taken the sport to enviable heights not only in Africa but the world. About fifteen countries including Nigeria are taking part in the championship. “Yes, I want Nigeria to win and I know that we have the best cyclists in Africa. I also wish every team here to win. We will win because we have the best cyclist. POLL “I commend the efforts of the President of Cyclist Federation of Nigeria, Giandomenico Massari, Dr Mohammed Waguih Assam, the President of African Cycling Federation as well as other international cycling bigwigs who were present at the event. “It is a great thing for Nigeria to host this competition. For us as a country, this shows that Nigerians is cycling country. We Want to thank the African Cycling Federation for the support and to help our cyclers to become World beaters. We hope that Nigerian athletes continue to enjoy such support. We promise to invite you back again hosting another competition and before then, We would have upgraded the facilities,” Dare said. Earlier in his remarks, Dr Assam had urged the country to upgrade the velodrome built in 2003 to meet the latest specifications approved by the international cycling union, UCI. Also in his comment, Engr Massari assured the minister that both the female and male teams have trained well for the championship to be able to hold their own when the championship gets underway.