ABUJA- In celebration of the Eid el-Kabir, the KEMTOYE Care & Support Foundation, a nongovernmental organization (NGO), on Thursday made over 500 orphans happy by giving them over (N.5m) to cover expenses like school and medical bills, food, cows, notebooks, textbooks, toiletries, cleaning supplies, and school uniforms. The NGO’s coordinator, Janet Shehu, described her satisfaction from helping the less privileged in society while interacting with journalists at the Al’ Yatama foundation orphanage in Sherrette village, Abuja. According to her: “The reason why we established the NGO is to be able to reach out to the less privileged and our focus is on women, orphans and communities that lack basic amenities. “Being a Christian, am married to a Muslim family and I see Muslim and Christian as the same. “The joy of reaching out to the less privileged is im-measurable. If you put a price on what you are giving then you won’t feel fulfilled. The joy that people get from sowing, cannot be compared to anything”. On giving during Sallah, she said, “Well beyond the challenges we have in this country, we should not say because they are orphans that they shouldn’t have joy at this festive period. The same way we are merrying in our houses, they should have fun too. “And from the support from our friends and the NGO, we try to meet some of their needs. -Advertisement- POLL They also asked us to help them renovate the clinic but when we visited the place we knew renovating it, will be waste of resources and we will rebuild it for them that would serve the orphanage home once they have perfected the papers for the property” she noted. Aliyu Umar, the Public Relation Officer of the orphanage, expressed the gratitude of the orphanage to the KEMTOYE CARE & SUPPORT FOUNDATION. He said, “We have over 500 kids spread across, Sherrette, Wassa, Apo, Kabussa and we have been operating over 11 years. “We have graduated two people from universities and we have two others that are in higher institutions, some are learning a vocation. “Our major challenges include foodstuffs, books, school fees, writing materials, salary for school teachers”. He said the orphanage pays N501,992 as school fees, every term, depending the number of children in school.