Mrs. Mojisola Animashaun, Executive Director and Founder of St. Cyril Cancer Treatment Foundation in this interview with CHIOMA UMEHA discuss why her organisation has unveiled the One Million Individuals Fighting Against Cancer (OMIFAC) initiative with the aim of comprehensive Cancer centre in Nigeria. What is the focus of St. Cyril Cancer Treatment Foundation? It is a foundation founded on the need to increase Cancer treatment centers in Nigeria. We set up treatment centers so that more people can have the opportunity to be treated and get cured of Cancer. Why did your organisation unveil OMIFAC? We unveiled OMIFAC, an Initiative, as our organisation is growing, so we want to do more and help more people, and we want to start a comprehensive Cancer centre, which will include chemotherapy which we are doing now, in addition to a radiotherapy centre, surgery, and diagnostic services as well. Instead of us just doing only the chemotherapy and sending the patients out to go get the other treatments, we can do everything in-house. We can maintain the quality, we can maintain how we help them in terms of ensuring that many people who walk through our door get treated with cost management. We started this initiative to be able to build a comprehensive Cancer Centre. The Initiative is called OMIFAC, an acronym for One Million Individuals Fighting Against Cancer. We have the concept because in Nigeria, what we have are mainstream that cut across every state. We have a vast population, but most of our population does not have enough money, so instead of asking a few people to donate lots of money, we are asking many people to donate little money monthly. So the whole essence of it is one million people donating One Thousand Naira every month for 12 months. How do you intend to run the centre? -Advertisement- POLL The center is self-sustaining. The patients are charged as they will pay anywhere else. We maintain an international standard of treatment for our patients. We ensure our patients can get treated because we help them. Those who are financially well to do, can get their treatment and go, while for those who do not have money, we ensure that we try to help them find a way to get treatment, and we run fundraising for them. We have people who donate to this initiative. How will you describe the burden of Cancer in Nigeria? It is a heavy one because it continues to increase, and the numbers are going up every day. Sometimes the cost is too much for the patient to pay and get treatment. It is a huge burden that cannot be carried by the government alone. How many cancer patients have the foundation reached out to? We put out messages on social media, many people come to us. We have active social media telling people to call us if they feel something. We also organise screening programs, then we follow them up after the screening to ensure that if someone has a problem, we carry them to the next stage to find out if it is Cancer. The foundation has treated 81 patients. Why should people donate? The reason anyone should donate is that every Cancer Patient you see or hear about, they are alive by the grace of God. Having Cancer is not an impossibility, it can happen to anyone, so when we all come together as a community, make donations to save lives. We need to be prepared as a community and when the government is working, we should be working as well, that is why we want people to work in a way that is convenient for them. Every single person who donates, we will have their names in our book, and they will get a thank you letter from us. The Initiative is going to be for everyone in the community that is why we should donate because it is for all of us.