ABUJA – The National Population Commission (NPC) has solicited the partnership and support of the National Council for Women Societies (NCWS), in the mobilisation of Nigerian women during the forthcoming 2023 Housing and Population Census. Nasir Isa Kwarra, Executive Chairman of NPC, sought the partnership when the National President of NCWS, Lami Adamu Lau, led a delegation of Executive members of NCWS, on a courtesy visit to his office in Abuja. Kwarra said women occupy vantage and critical position in the Commission’s quest to conduct credible, reliable and acceptable census. He, therefore, tasked them to participate in mobilising other women across the length and breadth of the country, adding that women constitute over 50percent of the country’s population. He pointed out that it will portend a great danger for the country if the country does not accurate data for national planning. He explained that it is the statutory responsibility of NPC to provide data and demographics for socio-economic growth, policy-making and sustainable development of Nigeria. Also speaking, Federal Commissioner representing Lagos State in the Commission, Bimbola Salu-Hundeyin, said census is all about improving the welfare of the citizenry, adding that women are more concerned with the welfare of their husbands and children. She expressed optimism that members of the NCWS would go to the grassroots to mobilise other women to actively participate during the census. -Advertisement- POLL According to her,”Women are the most advocacy group. We have come to realise that census is the oxygen everybody breaths. “Census is the mother of all data, where every vital statistics of the country is obtained and government uses it to provide an evidence-based governance. “Census is for the good of the nation. Census will tell us as a country where we are, where we need to take the next steps, if all women understand this, which they have done today, there will be development,” she explained. Earlier, National President of NCWS, Lami Adamu Lau, commended NPC for its insight in creating a digital Call Centre, thereby making the forthcoming census the first ever Digital Population and Housing census in the history of the country. Lau said NCWS, is the umbrella body of all women groups in Nigeria, with branches in the 36 States, 774 Local Government Areas and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. On the partnership, she said “We will sincerely appreciate partnering with NPC in the forthcoming national census and would like to be considered in other possible areas of collaboration. She assured that members of the NCWS would be mobilised to embark on sensitisation of other women from house to house. She therefore, appealed to women to give census enumerators correct data during census for national planning and sustainable development.