AWKA – Nigerians from all walks of life on Tuesday celebrated former governor of Anambra State and Labour Party Presidential candidate in next year’s presidential election Mr Peter Obi as he turned 61. The social media was awash with goodwill messages for him just as various people especially the youths and support groups poured encomiums on him. His media aide, Valentine Obienyem in his tribute described him as a revolution “the newest phenomenon in town”, saying “the public should view Obi through the mass movement that has all the attributes of a revolution in which he is a prominent figure. “Today, there is a bit of freshness in the air. Nigerians, especially the youth are saying ‘enough is enough’. For those pretending not to know what is happening, let them be informed that a peaceful revolution is presently taking place in the country. It will culminate in the elections of February 2023, when the instrument of that revolution – PVCs – will be deployed to sweep aside the crop of old, inept leaders that have held us hostage. Some of them are deluded that they are still “turnistically” very much relevant even while play-acting not to be aware of the current tide hovering over the country. Also, Labour Party candidate for Awka North and Awka South Federal Constituency in the 2023 general election Professor Oby Lillian Orogbu described Obi and his co-celebrant Chief Victor Umeh as patriotic Nigerians who have served their communities and the nation in various capacities and urged them not to rest on their oars. Orogbu said: “I am proud to work with these fine gentlemen and patriotic leaders of our time. On behalf of myself and family, I felicitate with them and prayed that God will perfect all that concerns them”. Likewise, various people and members of Obi support groups also paid tributes to Obi eulogising him in social media. Also,  former Commissioner of Information and Public Enlightenment in Anambra State Dr. Tony Onyima in his Facebook page also greeted Obi and Umeh as “great sons of Ndigbo and passionate Nigerian patriots. POLL “On their heads, I pray that God will continue to guide and protect them. Congratulations Okwute and Ohamadike,” he concluded.