The Chairman of the Brass Local Government Area in Bayelsa State, Victor Isaiah, has announced his formal defection from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Isaiah, who resigned his membership of the PDP, cited lingering internal crisis and segregation in the party in the state as reasons for dumping the party. In a letter addressed to the PDP Chairman of Ward 3, dated July 8, 2022, Isaiah said he was moving to the SDP with all his supporters. Isaiah, who was elected Chairman of the Brass council in 2019, with some months to the end of his tenure, did not resign from office. He said that the SDP was more stable than the PDP and the All Progressives Congress (APC). He thanked the PDP, saying that his desire of enlisting in a political party was to bring the dividends of democracy to the people and that desire was still burning in him. The Brass council boss, however, said that he did not see the PDP as a platform upon which he could actualize the desire. Isaiah also noted in a statement he issued on Sunday that his political history would not be complete without a mention of the PDP. POLL He further said, “Most of us are in politics to bring infrastructural development and other democratic dividends to our people, and a political party remains the platform through which one can wield the needed political power to actualize this desire. “There is no doubt that this can only be possible if and when the party is united and guided by democratic principles and values, and has a leadership that gives all members a sense of belonging and hope for a better future. “Disappointingly, this is no longer obtainable in the PDP, especially in Bayelsa, as there is currently so much segregation among a large number of party members and stakeholders who fought hard for its present growth and acceptance. “Based on my values, I can no longer remain in a party that is sharply divided and neglects die-hard members with no hope of solving the internal crisis, hence my decision to resign my membership. I and my supporters have officially registered as members of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and were warmly welcomed by the party leadership.”