Hon. Deinye Pepple Briggs, the chairman of the Labour Party, LP, in Rivers State, is a grassroots politician who strongly feels that the party’s presidential candidate, His Excellency, Peter Obi, is on a rescue mission to return the country to the path of greatness. Briggs, who joined the party in 2006, and has remained committed to its growth, is of the view that in the coming months before the 2023 general elections, millions of Nigerians across the country will join the Obidient Movement. He spoke with DANIEL ABIA. Excerpts: Take us into your activities in recent times aimed at bringing more mem­bers to the Labour Party in Rivers State as the general elections draw nearer? I have always been a member of the Labour Party which start­ed from the time I contested as a councilor more than a decade ago. I have always been of the opinion that the Labour Party is a unique one, mainly because it can be used as a huge platform to lift workers and even the un­employed, especially at a time when poverty is threatening the existence of workers and the generality of Nigerians. Over the years the Labour Party in Rivers State has been growing in leaps and bounds as more people across the 23 council areas of the state join the Labour Movement. So, I can confidently tell you that I know the party like the back of my palm. Now, to the question that you asked; what I can tell you categorically is that the num­ber of people coming to identify with the party in recent times has been unprecedented in the party’s history. You will not believe that some of them are donating their resources, mainly campaign ma­terials to support our party. Some of them are donating their hous­es, offices and vehicles to support the party’s campaign efforts. I am talking about thousands of people who genuinely feel that the par­ty has what it takes to move the country from its current state. Some have come here to donate cash to support the party. We are the real threat to other political parties in Rivers state and all of us will see what happens in 2023 elections. In my own opinion, these are people who feel that the current situation of our country can be salvaged, hence are ready to work towards that objective. In Port Harcourt alone, men and women, old and young, and highly skilled professionals are throwing their weight behind the party. They strongly feel that His Excellency Peter Obi is a breath of fresh air from what Nigerians have long known as leaders. We all know what is happening in the country in terms of economy as the Naira continues to decline in the midst of insecurity. This affects every part of the country, and the people of Rivers who will be exercising their voting rights in 2023 genuinely want change to happen. They also know that they cannot achieve change by sitting down at home; they know that the Labour Party means business. That is why they are identifying with the party in great numbers. It is a real movement. A few days ago, Peter Obi was in Osun State to campaign for the Governor­ship candidate of the Labour Party. At that campaign rally, the turn-out of supporters was not impressive. Some have used that Osun outing to justify the conclusion that the party is only strong in the social media. How prepared is the Labour party in Rivers State? I was not at the campaign ral­ly in Osun State. But I can tell you that it was not a bad outing as some people have made it to appear. This is because they did not see millions of supporters at the rally does not make our party weak. The movement is still growing; people are joining us every day and I can assure you that in the coming months, more Nigerians irrespective of age, gender or ethno-religious affiliations will join the party. I say this because poverty, insecu­rity or inflation don’t care about your age, your religion or ethnic group. The fact of the matter is that our beloved country, Nigeria has been on a gradual decline in the last few years, and people are fed up with the situation and want the situation changed. Whatever some people might think about the rally in Osun does not reflect the real situation of the party. What you have to understand is that there are supporters in towns and villages that may not attend rallies but would vote on the day of the election. Some supporters might decide not to travel from say three or six local governments away to participate in a rally, but it does not mean they don’t know the party to vote for on the day of the election. Having said that, I can confidently tell you that the entire Rivers State will be shut down whenever Obi comes to town. When I say shut down, I re­ally mean it. The Governorship candidate of the party, Beatrice Itobo is very popular in the state, as the leader of the Nigerian La­bour Congress, NLC. From her position as a Labour leader over the years, she understands the plight of Rivers workers; she has always fought for their welfare. Aside that she has always stressed the need for an accountable and people – oriented governance. She won the Governorship tick­et based on her popularity and overwhelming acceptance by the Rivers people. From the youths to women and the unemployed that are living in Rivers state, all of them are craving a change that will bring positive living for them. And that is exactly what the La­bour Party stands for. When you talk about a shut-down of the state when Obi visits, what are you really basing this on? What makes you think that people will leave their businesses or work behind to hold a rally for Obi whose party is relatively known? Today in Rivers State, we have more than 100 groups that have identified with the Labour Party so far. Some of these groups are made up of women, youths, re­tirees and highly qualified profes­sionals that are still active. Then, we also have workers in the civil service that are still in active ser­vice. Election is still some months away and we already have a mas­sive level of acceptance, then one will not be wrong to conclude that there will be a shutdown of the state when our presidential can­didate comes to town to campaign for the Governorship candidate, House of Representatives and oth­ers seeking elective offices. When you walked through our office, you saw people wanting to come and join the party. That is also the situation at the wards and coun­cil levels. What I can assure you is that as things stand in Rivers at the moment, if there is an election and there are only 1000 votes that are up for grabs in any ward, Obi will win 60 percent of that vote in Rivers State, I can assure you that. There are two major political parties in Rivers State, which are the ruling People’s Democratic Party, PDP and the All Progressives Congress, APC. These are parties that have domi­nated the state since 1999. One can conclude that the Labour Party is sandwiched by the two parties. How would you react to that? POLL We cannot be sandwiched by the PDP and APC. These parties may have dominated politics in the state in the past how many years, but right now there is a new order that is generating an emerg­ing shift from the old way of life. This order is a genuine one. And as we are approaching the election year, Rivers people will witness the massive support Labour Party will garner in the state. Recently, there has been a mass exodus of top politicians from the APC in Rivers state. Have you seen this as a golden opportunity to woo these defected people to your party? We are aware of the defections of top politicians from the APC in Rivers state. We are holding discussions with some of them. Some of them are also currently holding discussions with us. The LP is open to new members, so they are welcome. As a strategy, we cannot disclose the content of our discussions on the pages of newspapers. But what I can tell you is that quite a number of them are in direct talks with our party. We are not a desperate party. We are not in hurry to get things done. We know that La­bour Party in Rivers state offers the alternative that the people need.