JOS – The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Reverend Yakubu Pam, has Commended the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and State Governors for contributing immensely to the achievements he recorded at NCPC in the last two years. Pam who gave this commendation at the NCPC Corporate Headquarters in Abuja while marking his two years in office noted that his appointment came two years ago during a period when the country and the world were ravaged by the dreaded COVID-19. He said even under this uncertainty, he summoned the courage to take Christians from Nigeria on Holy Pilgrimage to Jordan. Pam used the event to pray for Nigeria to come out stronger from the current challenges facing it. Pam appreciated Church leaders in the country for giving him and the commission the needed support towards achieving the current strides at the NCPC. “It is interesting to note that within two years of being in the saddle, the commission has been able to carry out it’s maiden 2020 pilgrimage exercise to the Kingdom of Jordan and the 2021 main/ Easter pilgrimage 2022 exercise to Israel and Jordan on 15 June 2022 and will be rounding off in August this year. “We want to profusely thank our supervising body, the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation for their support, these two years I have been in charge of the Commission. Without them, we would not have been able to achieve much. “I want to also appreciate some of our pilgrimage-friendly Governors for helping to advance the cause of Christian pilgrimage in their respective states. -Advertisement- POLL According to Pam his Commission is not unmindful of the current challenges we face as a nation in the area of the economy and security, but expressed optimism that with God on their side, they shall certainly overcome these challenges. He noted that the NCPC has lived up to its mandate of organizing, coordinating and superintending over the affairs of Christian Pilgrimage in Nigeria by supervising the movement of Nigerian Christians to the Holy Sites around the world. Rev. Pam also explained that his commission is working tirelessly to explore Holy Sites in Turkey and other countries of the world for pilgrimage activities in the nearest future. He expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the commission’s request for the execution and completion of the NCPC pilgrim’s Heritage Camp House in Abuja.