It was dancing galore and jubilation at the Government House Awka as the traditional ruler of Ifitedunu in Dunukofia Local Government Area of Anambra State,  His Majesty Igwe Dr Emeka Ilouno Eze Dunu Igwe Ifitedunu led indigenes of the town on a thank-you procession to Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo’s office. The Indigenes of Ifitedunu who were apparently in very high spirits had placards with various inscriptions showing that they were indeed very grateful to Governor Soludo whose timely intervention in the town union crisis quelled the situation and reinstalled Uchenna Nwoye as the authentic President-General of the town union whom they unanimously concurred was the people’s choice and winner of the town union election. Some of the indigenes who spoke with newsmen during the procession at Government House Awka said Governor Soludo has restored peace and stability in Ifitedunu town even as they alleged that the town has been under siege and that some people have been unjustly arrested and languishing in a police cell. Comrade Chukwuemeka Anthony Ugoozo a former labour leader who hails from Ifitedunu said certain embarrassing developments happened in the past in the Ifitedunu community where in the election which brought Uchenna Nwoye Oragwuncha into office on the 30th December 2019 was denounced by intrigues of some dissidents in the town. Ugoozo said the dissidents made allegations of murder against Uchenna Nwoye Oragwuncha but unfortunately, they could not produce the person he killed or bring the parents of the person he murdered. That it was on the basis of the murder allegation that he was pushed out and a caretaker committee installed by the previous administration of Willie Obiano. Ugoozo said, ” Just recently Governor Soludo came and brought the solution to the Ifitedunu town union crisis and reinstated our brother Uchenna Nwoye Oragwuncha and his executives. So we are here to say thank you to the governor. ” Also Hon. Chukwuemeka Dibiaezuo a stakeholder in Ifitedunu town said an election was conducted and Uchenna Nwoye won. He said other contestants congratulated him but according to him, someone who claimed to have money went ahead to remove him from office. Dibiaezuo, however, expressed great joy that Governor Soludo intervened and according to him, brought the everlasting solution to the Ifitedunu town union crisis by returning Uchenna Nwoye back to the office as the President-General of Ifitedunu town union. -Advertisement- POLL He said prior to Governor Soludo’s intervention, there was no peace in the Ifitedunu community but he said presently the people of Ifitedunu now embraced one another. That they were happy about the development, describing Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo as a Godsent to Ndi-Anambra. The traditional ruler Igwe Emeka Ilouno said one character in the town has been igniting crisis in the area for more than 6 years which he said led to the installation of caretaker committees to pilot the affairs of the town union. The monarch said the people of Ifitedunu were happy that the government resolved the crisis in the town, which was why they came to express gratitude to him. Henry Nwasike the Public Relations Officer of the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftancy Matters who addressed the people of Ifitedunu on behalf of the Commissioner, said Governor Soludo is a man of rule of law and that he has resolved so many town union crises since he assumed office. Nwasike assured them that the era of intimidation was no more and that those in prison custody will be released in no distant time.