LAGOS – Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos has sentenced a fake Army General, Bolarinwa Oluwasegun Abiodun, whose real name is Hassan Kareem Ayinde to seven years imprisonment without an option of fine on Thursday. He was convicted following a plea bargain at the proceedings on Thursday where he admitted using the name of former President Olusegun Obasanjo (alias OBJ) to defraud a business man Mr. Bamidele Olusegun Safiriyu to the tune of N266.5milion. Ruling on the 13-count charge brought before the court, the judge ordered that the convict should give to the complainant N20 million Naira.He is also to forfeit four vehicles recovered during the search of his home at 1A Joke Ayo street, Alagbado, Lagos. The judge also said that the defendant is to forfeit the building at No 1 Joke Ayo street, Alagbado. Among the properties to forfeit are a black Range Rover Sport HSA with Reg No APJ YAB 289 BD, a black BMW 750 NNI with Chasis No WBAKC6C51A393501, a black Toyota Land Cruiser V6 ESR with Chasis No JINHU09JXV4086310 and a white Toyota Hilux woyh Reg No Lagos KTU 985 BT. Also, the court ordered that the First Bank of Nigeria account of Bolarinwa Oluwasegun Abiodun containing be closed. Justice Taiwo said that the action of the convict shows the length that scammers can go to defraud innocent victims. She added that he portrayed himself to be a general, he so perfected the scam by the level of his education, that one wonders if such an individual should be allowed to walk scot-free. -Advertisement- POLL “It is so sad that people have given our dear country a bad name.” “I intend to send a clear message to scammers, she said. The convict was arraigned on April 11, 2022, for allegedly falsely representing himself to the complainant, Kodef Clearing Resources, as a General in the Nigerian Army who had been shortlisted by President Muhammadu Buhari to be appointed as the Chief of Army Staff, COAS, and that he needed a short grant to “press and process the appointment.” The defendant was arrested at his house in the Alagbado area of Lagos State on Wednesday, January 12, 2022. He was said to have also allegedly forged a letter of appointment as COAS purportedly signed by the President and showed the same to the victim to further prove his claim. One of the counts reads: “Bolarinwa Oluwasegun Abiodun, between 15th June 2020 and 31st December 2020 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to defraud and whilst holding yourself out as a General in the Nigerian Army, obtained the sum of N111,400,000 from Kodef Clearing Resources Limited, under the pretence that the sum represented part of the amount expended to “press and process” your incoming appointment by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, as the Chief of Army Staff of the Nigerian Army, which pretence you knew to be false.” The charge against him also has it that he allegedly forged a Nigeria Army Identity Card with serial number 387140, claiming the same to have been issued to him from the Nigerian Army, and another forged “Letter of Recommendation” purportedly signed by Chief Olusegun Obasanjo recommending one Adebayo Rasaq Adebola, with recruitment No 77RRI/OG/556/0032555 and Adeogun Emmanuel Adesola with recruitment No 77RRI/OG/352/0123751 for employment into the Nigeria Army. He is also charged for being in possession of a forged “Certificate of Confirmation” dated November 7, 2018, purporting the same to have emanated from the Nigerian Army Headquarters; he is also accused of being in possession of a forged document titled: “Letter of Authorization”, purportedly signed by Chief Olusegun Obasanjo permitting one Bamidele Olusegun Safiriyu of De-Rock Maritime Resource LTD. to enter Apapa Port freely and load their truck. He has pleaded guilty to all count charges.