Former Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha on Thursday wooed an Igbo socio-political group, Ndigbo United Congress (NUC) to support the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at the 2023 general elections. Ihedioha who was in Lagos to meet with the group was overwhelmed by the turnout of the crowd who received him in Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, the venue of the meeting, and assured him that the Delta State Governor is their son and they are ready to support him. In his address, Ihedioha reminded the group that Okowa would always be on their side because he has never denied being an Igbo man, unlike other people from the Igbo-speaking South-South region who repeatedly denied connection with Ndigbo. He said, “Ifeanyi Okowa is our son. It is on record that he has always associated with us. He has never denied being an Igbo man unlike some people from his region. “I can assure you that he will represent the interest of Ndigbo when he gets there in 2023, by the grace God. I have come here today to meet with you and request your support. I must say that I am impressed with the reception,” he said. Ihedioha added, “His Excellency Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will be running for only one term and when he completes his tenure in 2027, it will be the turn of an Igbo person.” While responding to the request made by the former governor, Dr. Jonathan Nnaji, the national coordinator of NUC noted that the people will take him (Ihedioha) by his words and would support the duo of Atiku and Okowa in the next general elections. “I have already sought the opinion of my people who are gathered here today  to receive you. They promised to work with the presidential candidate and the vice presidential candidate of the PDP in the 2023 general elections. “Okowa is our son as you rightly pointed out and we won’t abandon him. We are also very hopeful that when they get there, they wouldn’t forget the contributions of the South-East region in the party by ensuring that the region is duly represented in the government,” he said.