The Church of England claimed in a recent statement that there is “no official definition” of a woman within the church. While senior bishops formerly agreed that such basic definitions were not up for debate, the church’s Bishop in Europe has released an update suggesting that its treatment of the terminology should be reevaluated, according to the Telegraph. “There is no official definition, which reflects the fact that until fairly recently definitions of this kind were thought to be self-evident, as reflected in the marriage liturgy,” Bishop Robert Innes said in a statement. He added that there are new “complexities associated with gender identity” making it necessary to give “additional care” to the gender identity issue. The question of female identity that prompted a response from the church was raised when Adam Kendry, a lay member of the General Synod, the church’s legislative body, and a representative of the Royal Navy, asked: “What is the Church of England’s definition of a woman?” While progressive cohorts in the church have embraced post-modern gender ideology, some more seasoned members of the clergy expressed skepticism about the move. Rev. Angela Berners-Wilson, the first woman to be ordained as a priest in England in 1994, seemed dissatisfied with it and suggested to the Telegraph that it defies observable reality. “I’m not totally happy with it. I mean, I do think certain things like men can’t have babies, just to say the complete obvious thing,” she said. “But I think we need to be very sensitive and maybe we need to reexamine our boundaries.” In 2020, the Church of England launched a “Living in Love and Faith” initiative aimed at revisiting identity, sexuality, relationships, and marriage within the institution’s doctrine. The church has gradually adopted policies that seem to be at odds with the traditional Christian understanding of sexual morality. POLL For example, in 2018, the church issued guidance from its House of Bishops directing parishes to be “creative and sensitive” in using liturgy, including ceremonial services such as baptism, to support people transitioning to a sex other than that assigned at birth. In 2017 the General Synod passed a motion that declared: “The Church of England welcomes and encourages the unconditional affirmation of trans people, equally with all people, within the body of Christ, and rejoices in the diversity of that body into which all Christians have been baptized by one Spirit.” In 2019, the church announced it would still recognize marriages in which one spouse later transitioned to the opposite gender. (SOURCE: National Review)