Chelsea remain interested in signing both Raphinha and Ousmane Dembele, 90min understands, although their hopes of landing either player hang in the balance. Head coach Thomas Tuchel is keen to strengthen the Blues’ goal-shy frontline this summer following Romelu Lukaku’s return to Inter on loan, and the best way to do so is considered to be through signing productive wide players given the lack of elite central strikers on the market. The London club is closing in on the £45m signing of Raheem Sterling from Manchester City, but sources have informed 90min that Leeds’ Raphinha and now-free agent Dembele remain on their radar. However, much will depend on Barcelona and their finances – or lack thereof. Although Chelsea have agreed a fee of around £60m with Leeds for Raphinha they have been unable to settle on personal terms as a move to Camp Nou is the Brazilian’s preference, and he is waiting for Barça to find a deal. The Blaugrana have made a proposal worth a similar amount overall, but the structure of the transfer would be heavily reliant on add-ons and instalments paid over an extended period – something Leeds have so far been reluctant to accept. With Chelsea lurking in the background prepared to strike a more straightforward deal, Barcelona have been pushed to structure their offer in a more satisfactory way in terms of instalment sums and deadlines or risk missing out on the winger, although 90min understands an agreement is not far away. Meanwhile, though Dembele is technically a free agent after his contract at Camp Nou expired, both Barcelona and Chelsea are still waiting to discover whether the Frenchman will accept fresh terms in Catalonia on a reduced salary, or whether he will finally end a saga that has dragged on for months by walking away. -Advertisement- POLL If the outcome is the latter, then Chelsea will be ready to pounce as they continue to keep tabs on the 25-year-old. Sources close to the situation believe Barcelona can only afford to sign – or re-sign – one of Raphinha and Dembele amid their continuing financial struggles, unless fellow forward Ferran Torres is sold – something that is deemed unlikely. Speaking about Dembele earlier this week, club president Joan Laporta said: “There is no decided date. We are in a situation of uncertainty because we work to sign and now we cannot sign. We work talking to players that interest us so that they wait for us until we can sign.