LAGOS – Aviation Round Table, a body of professionals in the Nigerian aviation industry is set to make enquiries into the suspension of operations of two Nigerian airlines within 48 hours interval. A statement by Mr Olumide Ohunayo, the Assistant General Secretary of the group, expressed sadness with the sudden suspension of operations of the two airlines. Recalled that Aero Contractors had early last week mentioned high cost of maintenance, skyrocketing fuel prices, inflation and forex scarcity as some of the major reasons for its suspension of operations. The airline however said that the suspension of operation did not in any way affect the maintenance activities of the Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) otherwise known as AeroMRO, the Approved Training Organisation (ATO), also known as Aero Training School, the Helicopter and Charter Services operations. It insisted that the decision to shut down operation was carefully considered and taken due to the fact that most of its aircraft are currently undergoing maintenance, resulting in its inability to offer a seamless and efficient service to the clients. The statement added: “We are working to bring these aircraft back to service in the next few weeks, so we can continue to offer our passengers the safe, efficient, and reliable services that Aero Contractors is known for, which is the hallmark of Aero Contractors Company of Nig. Ltd. “The past few months have been very challenging for the aviation industry and the airline operators in particular. With the high cost of maintenance, skyrocketing fuel prices, inflation, and forex scarcity resulting in high foreign exchange rates. These are amongst the major components of airline operations.” On the part of Dana Air, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Tuesday night said it suspended the airline’s Transport Licence (ATL) and Air Operator Certificate (AOC) indefinitely because of the outcome of a financial and economic health audit carried out on its operations and the findings of an investigation conducted on the airline’s flight operations recently. POLL According to NCAA, the airline was no longer in a position to meet its financial obligations and to conduct safe flight operations, adding that its action was made pursuant to Section 35(2), 3(b) and (4) of the Civil Aviation Act, 2006 and Part 1.3.3.3(a)(1) of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig.CARs), 2015. Ohunayo in the statement said that everyone was aware of the serious negative impact the suspension of operations of the two airlines would have on the travelling public and called on the travelling public to be patient with steps taken to continue to ensure safety in the sector. He said: “It is with great pain that ART observes the self-termination of scheduled flight operations by Aero Contractors Airline Ltd. and the regulator’s suspension of Dana Airline’s operations. “ART will as its usual practice, inquire into the root causes of this very discouraging incidents that result in loss of capacity for the traveling public. ART will make findings and recommendations to the stakeholders; government and the public. “We call on the air traveling public to be patient while steps are being taken to restore normal and safe services. Be reassured that we, an independent body of veterans in the industry and in co-operation with the government, regulators and operators, will ensure the best outcome for the industry and consumers for safe and reliable air operations in Nigeria.”