AC Milan have confirmed the signing of Divock Origi on a free transfer after his contract at Liverpool expired at the end of last season. Origi spent seven years at Anfield before airing his desire to leave the club following a lack of pitch-time under manager Jurgen Klopp. The 27-year-old, who made just seven Premier League appearances last season, has signed a four-year deal with the Serie A champions. Origi has reportedly signed a four-year-deal with the Serie A giants and is said to be earning around £3.4million per annum, according to Goal. The 27-year-old will be hoping to secure more pitch-time in the Italian top-flight after struggling to establish himself as a regular in the Liverpool starting XI. Klopp typically turned to the likes of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino ahead of Origi. However, the Belgian striker did deliver some memorable moments during his time at the Merseyside club. He scored twice in Liverpool’s epic comeback against Barcelona in their Champions League semi-final tie in 2019, before coming off the bench to score again in the final against Tottenham. -Advertisement- POLL Origi also chalked up an impressive record against the club’s Merseyside rivals Everton, and his final goal for the Reds came against the Toffees in April. He is now set for a new challenge in Serie A, which will be the fourth major European league he has played in, having also represented Lille in France and Wolfsburg in Germany. Origi will join former Premier League strikers Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Olivier Giroud to spearhead Milan’s attack, as Stefano Pioli’s men set their sights on retaining the Italian title next season. However, Origi will have to to fight for his place in the AC Milan team after Stefano Pioli previously said he would be rotating his squad during the 2022-2023 campaign. ‘The pecking order will change game after game; this has always been our strength. I don’t have a starting 11 in my head because we have too many matches coming up to consider the possibility of someone playing all 21 fixtures from 13 August to 16 November. ‘We’ll have two strong players with different characteristics up front. This is a very important aspect in such a tactical league. Origi is intelligent and I expect a lot from him.’