A 35-year-old woman, Funmi Mogbojuri, has been arrested by the operatives of the police from Ondo Command with a stolen baby in Sagamu, Ogun State. She allegedly stole the baby from the residence of her mother the very day the baby was born in Okitipupa, Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State. The mother of the stolen baby, Mrs. Binta Alhassan told journalists that Funmi had lived with her man friend in the house she resides before the man packed out. She disclosed that the suspect came to the house one evening and claimed that they her sister she came to see in Okitipupa had moved out of her residence and didn’t know her new location. She then asked for assistance from Mrs. Alhassan to allow her to stay the night in the house which he granted. The room from which Funmi’s lover pack out was opened and a mat was laid for her to pass the night and was also served dinner. The following morning, when the mother of the baby wanted to go to and have her bath, Funmi was left with the baby. But just before the mother of the baby could come back bathroom, Funmi had escaped with the baby. POLL Mrs. Alhassan said: “To my dismay, while on my way from the bathroom the following morning, the woman had disappeared with my baby who had not even been breastfed by then.” In her narration of the incident. The suspect said she could not understand the spirit that overshadowed her that made her steal the baby. The Ilaje-born suspect disclosed that she gave birth to two children who are with her husband in the Republic of Benin after the marriage collapsed. According to her, “it was not intentional, I will just beg Nigerians to forgive me. Truly, I stole the child and I do that in order to be taking good care of the child. I have given birth before, but I never had a child for the husband am presently with. I just like the child that’s why I abducted the child because I have not conceived for my present husband. “The husband I married now did not know anything about the situation, I lied to him that I was pregnant. This would be the second time I would abduct a child so am just pleading for forgiveness.” Spokesperson to the state Police Command, Funmilayo Odunlami, a Superintendent of Police(SP), disclosed that the suspect was arrested five days after she stole the baby She said the suspect presented the baby to her husband as her own baby having feigned pregnancy for months. The Police image-maker revealed that the suspect had been involved in another similar incident in which she allegedly stole a baby, but the baby died as a result if not being breastfed for days. She assured that the suspect would be arraigned after the completion of an investigation into the incident.