Chelsea are considering a move for Cristiano Ronaldo, but it remains to be seen whether Thomas Tuchel is sold on the idea of trying to sign the Manchester United forward. Ronaldo wants to leave United because of what he perceives as a lack of ambition in their summer transfer dealings and his agent, Jorge Mendes, offered the 37-year-old to Chelsea’s co-owner Todd Boehly last month. Boehly is understood to be intrigued about the idea of signing the Portugal international and the American has since held further talks with Mendes. However Chelsea are yet to firm up any interest and Boehly, the interim sporting director, is likely to be led by Thomas Tuchel’s thoughts on Ronaldo, who cited family reasons after failing to return to training at United on Monday. Chelsea’s new ownership do not want to foist unwanted players on their head coach and it is unclear whether Tuchel wants Ronaldo, who has also been offered to Bayern Munich, Napoli and Paris Saint-Germain. The Chelsea manager plans to mould a versatile, fluid attack and has allowed Romelu Lukaku to join Internazionale on loan. Lukaku struggled to adapt to Tuchel’s system last season – the Belgium striker did not press enough and lacked mobility – and it is likely that signing Ronaldo would create similar problems. Signing Ronaldo would give Chelsea a proven goalscorer but although he scored 24 goals in 38 appearances for United last season, it was debatable whether he had a positive impact on the team’s play. United, who have insisted Ronaldo is going nowhere and are unlikely to want to lose him to a domestic rival, finished sixth and often lacked cohesion. Boehly will need to hold talks with Tuchel before deciding whether to test United’s resolve. There is a pressure on Chelsea to step up their business. They remain in talks with Manchester City over a £50m deal for Raheem Sterling, who has held talks with Tuchel, and are waiting to see if Barcelona will beat them to the signing of Leeds United’s Raphinha. Chelsea agreed a £55m deal with Leeds for Raphinha last week but the Brazilian winger’s preference is to join Barcelona, who are confident they will raise funds to make a suitable offer for him. Barcelona are also making progress with Ousmane Dembélé in talks about a new contract. The France winger has been a target for Chelsea, who must decide whether to keep their bid for Raphinha on the table. There have been suggestions that the 25-year-old could stay at Leeds until January and wait for Barça to return with an improved offer. -Advertisement- POLL Chelsea also need to strengthen in central defence after the departures of Andreas Christensen and Antonio Rüdiger. They have targeted City’s Nathan Aké, Juventus’s Matthijs de Ligt and Sevilla’s Jules Koundé.