In a bid to check the menace and excesses of cultism in Edo State as well as unnecessary killings, men of the anti-cultism unit of the State Police Command have been working round the clock with area commands and divisions to ensure that the ugly trend is nipped in bud. The move by the police has yielded tremendous success during recent operations as no fewer than six suspects were picked up in the Benin metropolis at the weekend. ASP Jennifer U Iwegbu, Deputy Police Public Relations Officer of the Command who confirmed the operation in a statement said, on the 02/07/2022 at about 1715hrs, operatives of Edo state police Command Ekiadolor sector while on routine township patrol within Ekowe community and environs, intercepted some suspected cultists at the community youth house. “The Suspects on sighting the police operatives took to their heels from the scene of their unlawful assembly, this action attracted the attention of the operatives and they gave them a hot chase which led to the arrest of the following Suspects; Andrew Owhoyavwosa ‘M’ 22yrs, Joseph Meshak ‘M’ 25yrs, Osazee Solomon ‘M’ 35yrs, Godswill Obasohan ‘M’ 25yrs, Charles Odiase ‘M’ 52yrs and Okoh Peter ‘M’ 68yrs”. The spot search conducted at the scene, she said, led to the recovery of the following items;Two locally-made single barrel guns, One locally cut to size single barrel gun, 30 live cartridges, One first aid box, Kolanuts, Eggs and Cowries. Also recovered at the scene were one dead chicken, seven handsets and the sum of thirty-seven thousand naira cash. “Consequent upon this, the Commissioner of Police, CP Abutu Yaro fdc, has directed the deputy commissioner in charge of State Criminal Investigation Department ( SCID) to carry out a discreet investigation with the aim of arresting other members of the dreaded group terrorising the state,” she said. In a related development, according to her, Operatives of the command in collaboration with local vigilantes on 03/07/2022 at about 0230hrs, while on routine patrol along Igbe road in Auchi, Etsako West LGA of Edo state intercepted a motorcyclist who was acting suspiciously. -Advertisement- POLL “In an attempt to stop the rider by the Operatives, he fired a gunshot in an attempt to scare the team of operatives to enable his escape but was subdued and arrested. “On the spot search conducted on him led to the recovery of the following items; One locally made cut-to-size single barrel gun, one live cartridge, One expended cartridge and one motorcycle with Reg no. BEN-316-QP. “During preliminary investigation, the suspect confessed to being a member of the dreaded Vikings Confraternity. An investigation is still ongoing. The Suspect will be charged to court at the end of the investigation”, she further said. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police has assured residents of the state that the Command will not relent in its efforts to rid the State of Criminal elements and their cohorts. He further implores the general public to continue to collaborate with the Police by way of providing prompt and credible information that will lead to the arrest of all criminal elements.