The nation’s stock market witnessed mixed sentiments in the past week on bargain hunting activities in blue-chips and low cap companies that impacted the benchmark NGX All-Share Index which closed lower. The index, thereby, halted previous week’s positive outing on a very low traded volume in the midst of a positive market breadth and expectation of corporate numbers. The week recorded selling momentum and profit taking, as the share price of MRS Oil and Smart Product Nigeria were adjusted for a bonus share and cash dividend of 1 for 8 ordinary share and N0.10 dividends as recommended by their board of directors. Also, selling pressure continued across the major sectors, despite the continued flow of funds into the equity space, and the fixed income market that is appealing to some investors, especially the risk-averse, and ahead of June inflation data and more half year results as Infinity Trust Mortgage Bank and Living Trust Mortgage Bank released impressive half year earnings to the market in the week under review. Even as the market ranges, all you need is price because assets prices trend in volatility, whether low or high volatility, so when investing in the stock market, always approach it as a stock market, regardless of the environment or situation, because there are always stocks showing leadership and trending higher. Here, you may have to look harder to identify them, and depending on current market conditions, there are always stocks that are going up. The same can be said for weak stocks, regardless of the environment or situation, there are always stocks traveling south too. So, look for those with best momentum and relative strength characteristics. POLL Oil prices oscillated within the week to breakdown the $100 price on increasing fear of global recession before rebounding in the international market to trade at $107 per barrel, after the labor report in US beat economist forecast to reduce fear of recession. Just as the West continued to increase sanctions on Russia and its oil, even as these chronic high energy prices are killing the global economy, heightening inflationary pressures across the globe on a weak economic outlook, thereby influencing monetary policies of central banks as they move to checkmate the impacts of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on the global economy to avoid economic recession. The nation’s soaring inflation is a potent threat to the fixed income market and investment yields, which should be an indication that there will be a reversal of funds flowing back to equity space in no distance time as institutional investors balance their portfolios. Trading strategies that will help you build wealth and navigate this current market trend include learning and understanding how to use specific technical analysis tools. Investdata Technical Toolbox makes it easier for you to understand and use them effectively to enhance your trading results and bottom line. Try and get them, if you have not made an order. The secret of making money in stock trading is in the price movement, so concentrate you efforts to know what move these prices in the bear and bull markets Movement Of NGXASI It was a bear market during the week as the benchmark NGXASI recorded four trading sessions of down markets and one-day marginal gain, as bargain hunters took profit from recent retracement as they reposition their portfolio with sectorial leaders that pulled back ahead of half year earnings season. The NGX Index action opened the week on a negative note, halting the previous day’s gain after the index sliding by 0.01% on Monday, a situation that extended to Tuesday as some market players increased their selling pressure in banking stocks and others pulling down the index by 0.41%, as June Purchasing Manger index according to stanbic IBTC report decline to 50.9 points from 53.9 points in May. But at the midweek, the selloffs slowdown as benchmark index fell 0.07% on profit taking, which was short-lived on Thursday with the market gaining just 0.06%, but reversed on Friday when it loss 0.02%. This brought the week’s cumulative lost to 0.53%, compared to the previous week’s 0.24% gain. In all, the NGXASI shed 272.26 basis points during the week, closing at 51,557.41bps, after touching an intra-week low of 51.530.40bps, from its highs of 51,829.67bps, which was the opening figure for the week. Market capitalisation also fell during the period by N139bn, closing at N27.80trillion, from the previous week’s N27.94tr, which also represented a 0.50% depreciation in value. Just as additional of NB shares that was listed as result of bonus and FGN bonds boosted the market cap. The week’s top advancers’ table was dominated by low and medium cap companies that attracted buying sentiments as portfolio reshuffling continued in the midst of markdown for 2021 dividends and reaction to March year-end accounts payout ahead of economic data and half year earnings season. Also noteworthy is the fact that investors are taking advantage of the pullbacks and expected earnings reports to accumulate positions. Market breadth for the week was positive, as gainers outnumbered losers in the ratio of 31:26 on buying interest and selloffs, as revealed by the investor sentiment report showing 91% ‘sell’ volume and 9% buy position. Money Flow Index was looking up at 65.30bps from the previous week’s 64.21 points, an indication that funds entered the market on a weekly chart to confirm the inflow of funds into some stocks despite high yield in fixed income instrument and others, while on a daily time frame money flow index was up to reveal that funds entered the market on Friday despite the market closing down marginally. The NGX index’s action on a weekly and daily time frame ranges to form a sideways movement, as the market remains strong in the face of increased volatility, profit taking and price adjustment. We note also that the index is trading flat on ‘T’ line to signal the likelihood of reversal to up or down depend on the state of the expected financials. The major strong support level of 51,567.41 points on a low high traded volume to remain above the 20- and 50-day moving average to reveal strength. The candlestick formation, at the end of the week, showed indecision among players ahead of macrocosmic data, and other factors to reposition their portfolios for Q2 earnings seasons. The candlestick pattern indicates price correction or retracement of the trend, depending on market forces in the new week after the long holiday. Bearish Sectoral Indices Sectorial performance indexes for the week were down, as NGX Insurance led decliners after losing 2.53%, followed by Consumer goods, Energy, Banking and Industrial goods with 1.42%, 0.41%, 0.31% and 0.15% respectively. Activities in volume and value terms were down as market players traded 822.40 million shares worth N10.37bn, compared to the previous week’s 1.35bn units valued at N24.49bn, with volume driven by Financial Services, Conglomerates, and Consumer goods sectors. Specifically, was driven by trades in GTCO, UBA, Transcorp, Accesscorp and Zenith Bank. Academy Press and UPDC were the best-performing stocks in the week, gaining 48.82% and 20.39% respectively, and closing at N1.89 and N1.24 per share on bonus of declaration and market forces respectively. On the flip side, RT Briscoe and International Breweries lost 22.73% and 14.29% respectively, at N0.34 and N5.40 per share, purely on selloffs and profit taking. Outlook for the week We expect a mixed trend amidst bargain hunting and expectation of consumer price index for June and Q2 corporate earnings ahead of MPC meeting after Mortgages Banks on the exchange had kicked off the earnings season with impressive numbers from Infinity and Living Trust Mortgage Banks. Also, investors are repositioning for half-year earnings reports, as market players continue to digest PMI that drop to 50.9 points in June from 53.9points in May according to Stanbic IBTC reports. Also, investors and traders continue reacting to the earnings power, as the revaluation of quoted companies on their earnings performance and growth prospects continue. We note that income investors have sustained buying into interim dividend-paying stocks. Meanwhile, the home study packs on How to make money in the new market environment of rising inflation and interest rates, Comprehensive Stock Market trading course video, Stock Market Analysis Beyond Fundamental & Technical Analysis, 2022 Actionable Trading Plan and Opportunities in Q1, INVEST 2022 Traders & Investors Summit materials and 10 Golden Stocks for 2022, Strategies and How to invest profitably in this Changing Market Dynamics/ Recession, Mastering Earnings Season For Profitable Investing and Trading in any market situation/ cycles, Life Beyond COVID 19 Investment Opportunities In The Stock Market are now available. To obtain your pack send ‘Yes’ or ‘Stock’ to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.