There are strong indications that the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is on the verge of tearing apart following the rejection of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State by the party’s presidential flagbearer, Atiku Abubakar as running mate in the 2023 general elections. This crisis was also said to have led to the embarrassing defeats in the Ekiti State Governorship election, where the party came third behind the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the crisis is also currently threatening the party ahead of the Osun State gubernatorial election between Gboyega Oyetola and Demola Adeleke. It would be recalled that Atiku emerged as the presidential candidate of the party after the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal stepdown at the last minute to the presidential primaries in Abuja, a move that angered Governor Wike. Speaking after the party convention, Wike said, “I just decided that this our party must not be destroyed. I would have left where I was sitting down and said this convention cannot go ahead except if you allow me to talk. I would have flattened him.” Many believed that the post-convention reconciliation would have addressed the fallout from the primary election, but the choice of Vice Presidential running mate has further polarised the party. Days after, Atiku visited Wike at his residence in Abuja and promised to work with him closely to deliver the party in 2023. But one month after Atiku’s victory the party appears to be on a path of self-destruction. While the PDP has been hailed to have been the only major political party to have sorted the issue of running mate, the choice of Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate seems to be tearing the party apart. So far, several PDP chieftains have openly challenged the process leading to the choice of Okowa, as many accused Atiku of not keeping to his promise to appoint Wike as running mate. -Advertisement- POLL However, former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose and Governor Samuel Ortom have recently claimed that Atiku offered the VP slot to Wike as compensation. “Wike never said he wanted to be VP, but when Atiku visited him, he was the one who said, ‘I want you to be my VP’. He said that to Wike. If that then changes, is Wike not supposed to be told? Is he not supposed to know?” Fayose had told journalists. This was also corroborated by Ortom, who questioned the rationale for jettisoning the recommendation of the 17-man committee on the Vice President. During an interview on Channels TV, Ortom said 14 members of the committee voted in support of Wike, while only three backed Okowa. Adding that he is yet to decide on supporting Atiku, he nonetheless, admonished the PDP presidential candidate to reach out to Wike. In any case, there are persons within the party that agree with Atiku’s decision not to pick Wike. Former Governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, had said, “unfortunately, I don’t know if it is his temperament. Sometimes when you speak too much, when you insult your way to power, it does not always happen.” This is not the first time Atiku will face challenges over a running mate. Several southeast governors fumed over the choice of Obi in 2018 as running mate to Atiku, who was accused of not consulting widely enough. David Umahi, who was still in the PDP in 2018, had expressed shock with the choice of Obi as the VP candidate. “We saw news flying up and down saying that our presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has picked a running mate from the zone. We were shocked because we were not consulted,” he said. The National Chairman Iyorcha Ayu confirmed this during the inauguration of the 17-man committee on VP selection. He said, “Our presidential candidate, this time, has decided to carry everybody along unlike 2019 when he didn’t consult widely in his choice of running mate.” Amidst all these, Atiku believed not to be in the country despite the off-season elections his party is involved in. Ayu who has recently come under fire over the post-election crisis, particularly for the “You are the hero of the convention” comment to Tambuwal after the election was threatened to resign his position following several crises in the party in recent time. It could be recalled that the comment also prompted Edwin Clark to call for Ayu’s resignation. During an interview with Arise TV on Thursday, when asked if Ayu has mismanaged the party or is innocent of the issues going on, Ortom did not defend him, instead said, “Well, I won’t talk about mismanagement or innocence, but I will say, it is not too late, things can still be amended.” Ayu has a long history with Atiku. He was the campaign Director-General of the Atiku 2007 presidential race under the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). The crack is also fueling rumour that Tinubu who is in France and Wike, who is in Turkey, had a covert meeting on a possible alliance. Joe Igbokwe, an ally of Tinubu had posted the alleged meeting on social media, however, the post was subsequently deleted. This alleged meeting is coming against the backdrop of the recent overture by Fayose, who has been giving signals of possibly backing Tinubu on the basis of the “southern agenda”.