The Delta State Commissioner of Police, Ari Muhammed on Friday visited some criminal flash points Ika South and Ika North Local Government Areas with a view to fish out moles in communities within the flash points. The CP also assured residents of the affected Local Government Areas and others who travel through the state via the Railway Station located at Agbor, of adequate security and safety. The Delta State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe who made this known in a statement, said the CP visited the Railway Station at Owa-Ewere in company of the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Operations, ACP Sa’ad Ibrahim, the Area Commander, Agbor, ACP Friday Idachaba, and the Commanding Officer, Army 181 Aphibions Agbor, for an ‘on the spot’ assessment of the security situation in the area. According to the statement, the first point of call by the CP was the railway crossing by Emuhu, Benin-Asaba express way where hoodlums sometimes kidnapped their victims and take them into the bush. Other places visited by the CP includes the third power line by Boji-Boji Owa, Idumuesah in Owa Alero road, and the Agbor Railway Station. He noted that after assessing the security situation and arrangements, he then paid a courtesy visit to HRM Obi Dr. Emmanuel O. Efeizomor II (JP) the OBI of Owa-oyibu and the Dein of Agbor HRM Benjamin Ikenchuku (Keagborekuzi I). During the courtesy, issues bothering on the kidnapping trend within their Kingdoms were discussed and solutions were proffered. HRM Obi Dr. Emmanuel O. Efeizomor noted that the Government and the Police should support and empower the local vigilantes as the Police cannot be everywhere at the same time. He also stressed that series of meetings are ongoing with a view to fishing out the moles in the Community that is conspiring with these hoodlums. -Advertisement- POLL The CP assured the two monarchs that the Command is working in close synergy with the military and other security agencies and all modalities have been put place to ensure that this ugly trend is brought to a halt and residents/passengers boarding the train to and from Delta State will be adequately protected.