Arsenal new boy Fabio Vieira has admitted he prefers playing as a number 10, even though he has occupied a number of different roles in the past. The former Porto star was one of the Gunners’ first summer arrivals, joining in a deal worth a reported £30m plus add-ons. He has yet to make his debut for the London club due to an injury picked up on Portugal under-21 duty, but has travelled with the squad on their US tour and could feature in the States. Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta was drawn to the 22-year-old’s versatility, according to the player himself. However, despite his range of abilities, Vieira has made it clear where he would rather operate. “I’m an offensive player,” Vieira told The Athletic. “I like to make the last pass, and to help team-mates to score. And I like to score goals too.” “The manager told me he knows I can play as a midfielder — No 8, No 10 — or on the wing, left side or right side,”. “They know I am a versatile player.” “I prefer No 10. It’s my real position.” Vieira racked up 11 assists in the Primeira Liga last season as Porto reclaimed the title, also scoring six times, and has 13 goals in 21 appearances for Portugal’s under-21 side. However, despite earning a big-money move, he admitted there are still areas where he can improve. “I’m an offensive player but I need to work on the defensive side,” he said. “Defensive moments are very important in football, especially in the Premier League : it’s more physical, more powerful. POLL “I am focused on this. My coaches at Porto worked with me last season to improve my physical capacity and my concentration in defensive moments.” He is one of several new arrivals as Arsenal look to improve on last season’s fifth-place finish in the Premier League. Arteta’s side narrowly missed out on Champions League qualification last term, but have added to the squad with the Europa League set to provide extra responsibilities on top of the domestic competitions. Marquinhos has joined from Sao Paulo, while Matt Turner finalised his switch from New England Revolution and Gabriel Jesus completed a big-money move from Manchester City. Another City player, Oleksandr Zinchenko, could yet follow his ex-teammate to north London. Zinchenko, like Jesus, worked with Arteta at Manchester City when the Arsenal boss was part of Pep Guardiola’s coaching staff. The Ukraine international has been named in City’s squad for their own pre-season tour, but a move could yet materialise.