A true church of God is a place where people will come inside the church and go out. It is a place where people who want to hear the truth will stay and those who despise the truth will leave. God has plan and arrangement for everything and everybody. My appeal and advice is that people should take good care of themselves. Death occurs in various ways. It can come when a person does not take good care of himself or herself, when he or she disregards a lot, when a person fails to move closer to God and when people betray one and other secretly. In fact betrayal commonly causes untimely and sudden death. Disobedience of divine instructions can bring about manifestation of bad dreams and visions, a person can be implicated in a matter he or she does not know about. I want people to know and be aware that God has arrangement and plans for their lives and they cannot be cancelled but follow the plans. Let’s imagine the story of Joseph in the Bible. Many people taught he had no plan. He had a dream and narrated it to his brothers and father who were able to know the implication of the dream. His father never liked that he told his brothers about the dream that it was not a good plan for him to do so. He knew God had a good plan for his son. Also Joseph’s brothers knew the implication of the dream and hatched a plan to prevent God’s plan in his life becoming a reality. They plotted initially to kill Joseph but sold into slavery and deceive their father that a wild animal had killed him a show him a blood soaked Joseph clothe as an evidence. Genesis 37 verse 5 – 36 “…So when the Midiante merchants came by, his brother pulled Joseph up out of the cistern and sold him for twenty shekels of silver to the Ishmaelites, who took him to Egypt……” Eventually Joseph was sold to an Egyptian named Potiphar one of Pharaoh’s officials. He commenced plans in his master’s place by ensuring that all the works assigned to him were perfectly done and better than other servants. Joseph’s works were recognized by his master that he made him the head of his household and gave him the responsibility to oversee everything in his master’s house except his wife. A person who has a work or business and does not plan very well is bound to fail. Likewise a home that the children and everybody do not know what to do at a particular time, then the head of the home does not have plan. If a person does not have plan he or she can die suddenly. It was the plan of Joseph that elevated him to the position he attained. As Joseph was doing well the other slaves were jealous of him until his master’s wife blackmailed him. And this led to his imprisonment. While he was in prison, his diligence and hard work was recognized by the prison authority and again made him the leader of the inmates. It was the same dream that made him not to plan well came up again in the prison. In fact it was two inmates that had a dream and Joseph translated the dreams for them. Then he requested one of them that his dream was favourable to remember him when the dream comes to reality. The prisoner promised to invite Joseph to the king’s palace when the dream becomes reality Genesis 40 verse 14-15 “But when all goes well with you, remember me and show me kindness; mention me to Pharaoh and get me out of this prison. For I was forcibly carried from the land of the Hebrews, and even here I have done nothing to deserve being put in a dungeon.” It is my fervent prayer that all the people that have good plans their plans will come to manifestation in the name of Jesus. Amen. Some people have the plan to buy a car, to build a house, to have a husband or wife within a certain period of time. Anybody that does not have such plans in mind, nothing can happen in his or her life. When these plans are conceived, they should be entrusted in hand of God for authorization so that they are manifested. Now my challenge to people is to have plan for whatever you want to do. For example if you want to marry, have plan for your prospective partner and time, if you want to have children plan for it. Imagine Jesus’ parent did not plan to have a child it came suddenly that is why they encountered problems to the extent that Jesus was delivered in the manger. It was God that was planning for them and directing their movements. I had plan for my life since my infancy time. My plans were to be counseling people spiritually, to train my children so that some of them will be a lawyer, medical doctor and an accountant. I thank God that the process of achieving my plans is in progress. Brethren do not be persons that fail to plan in life. If you fail to plan your life wil be meaningless to you, society and God.