Major stake holders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are currently in confusion and fear over the loss recorded by the party in the just concluded governorship election in Osun State. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday declared Senator Ademola Adeleke, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the winner of the Osun governorship election in a keenly contested exercise which was adjudged free and fair by local and foreign observers. Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, the Returning Officer for the election and Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), announced that Adeleke got a total of 403,371 votes beating the incumbent, Adegboyega Oyetola of the APC who got 375,027 votes. He said, “I declare Adeleke Ademola Jackson Nurudeen, on behalf of the Chairman of INEC, of the PDP, having satisfied the requirement of the law, is hereby declared the winner and he is returned elected.” According to the total votes recorded by the electoral umpire, the PDP won 17 of the 30 local government areas of the state, while the APC won the remaining 13. The PDP won in Ede North, Ede South, Ifelodun, Boluwaduro, Egbedore, Odo Otin, Osogbo, Ila, Atakumosa West, Olorunda, Ilesa West, Obokun, Oriade, Orolu, Ife North, Irepodun, and Ejigbo LGAs. The APC, on the other hand, won in Boripe, Ilesa East, Ayedire, Ifedayo, Ife Central, Ayedaade, Iwo, Olaoluwa, Isokan, Atakumosa East, Irewole, Ife South, and Ife East LGAs. The loss of the APC in Osun is coming at a time the party is struggling to convince Nigerians on its choice of a Muslim- Muslim presidential ticket which has met with widespread criticisms from Nigerians. POLL Loyalists of Tinubu, who were shocked by the outcome of the election, declined to speak on the issue on Sunday, saying they await the party’s position. Some of the APC chieftains, who spoke with Daily Independent on condition of anonymity, said the outcome of the election is a bad signal, considering the fact that Osun is one of the states in the South-West where the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, enjoys popularity and Oyetola his nephew is the governor. A chieftain of the party, who is a member of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA), said they were shocked at the outcome of the election, especially given the fact that the governor has performed well so far. “I must tell you that we are shocked by the outcome of the election. We all believed that we will win especially given the fact that Governor Oyetola performed well. However, we have learnt our lessons and I believe that this will not in any way affect the chances of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in presidential election”. On his part, Governor Oyetola said he has taken cognisance of the results of the governorship election in the state as announced by INEC, saying he is studying the outcome. In a statement issued by his media aide, Ismail Omipidan, on Sunday, Oyetola urged his supporters to remain calm and urged security operatives to ensure there is no breakdown of law and order across the state. He, however, noted that the party would be responding appropriately after studying the results and consulting with critical stakeholders of the party. “I am calling on our supporters to remain calm, and the people of the state to go about their businesses without let or hindrance. “I also urge security operatives to ensure maintenance of law and order, to prevent break down of law and order”. CDD AsksINECToReplicateOsun, Ekiti Polls’ Successes In 2023 Meanwhile, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Election Analysis Centre (EAC), has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to replicate the successes of the June 18 and July 16 governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun states in the coming 2023 general elections. This is contained in its post-election statement signed its Director, Idayat Hassan, and the CDD-EAC Chairman, Prof. Adele Jinadu. The organisation commended all election stakeholders for what it described as a positive performance and the successful conduct of the July 16 governorship election in Osun State. In the report presented in Abuja on Sunday, CDD expressed satisfaction with the elections, saying despite apprehension about the possibility of violence, the process turned out to be peaceful. The CDD said like the Ekiti State governorship election before it, the Osun poll witnessed impressive voter enthusiasm.