LAGOS – In a bid to stem the tide of partial or total collapse of buildings under construction in Lagos State, the State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Tpl. (Dr) Idris Salako has called on Site Supervisors of buildings under construction across the State to pay adequate attention to propping while carrying out their building projects. Dr. Salako made the appeal recently, following a review of construction activities in different parts of the State and the need to bring to barest minimum incidents of building collapse especially buildings under construction. According to the Commissioner, preliminary investigation into why buildings under construction often collapse revealed that most of the propping used during construction works are often not properly placed or in most cases, experiences failure . Speaking further, Dr. Salako underscored the importance of proper placement of props especially at the stage of casting in order to avoid errors that can ultimately result into collapse. He therefore urged all site supervisors, owners/developers of construction works and other relevant built professionals to always pay proper attention to propping and observe the appropriate timing for casting in order to avoid building collapse. Apart from this, the Commissioner added that projects board must be properly placed on every site, noting that a typical project board must contain the name of the owner/developers, proposed number of floors and use, names of professionals on site as well as their addresses and phone numbers. Salako maintained that names of all artisans working on site, including iron benders, welders, bricklayers, carpenters and others must be provided on demand with their passport photographs appropriately attached. Salako, who commended officials of LASBCA for efforts being put in place to avert collapse by promptly removing identified distressed and defective structures across the State, said that adequate measures will be taken to ensure that Lagos buildings are safe and habitable for present and future generations.