Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has assured the traditional institutions in Ondo State that government would continue to maintain neutrality in the selection of traditional rulers and chiefs. He gave the assurance on Thursday at the presentation of staff of office to the newly installed Iralepo of Isinkan, Oba Olugbenga Ojo, at the Ita Owa in Isinkan, Akure South Local Government Area of the state. Represented by his deputy, Mr. Lucky Aiyedatiwa, the governor tasked the new Iralepo on unity, peace and improvemebt on the socio economic development of Isinkan. He charged traditional rulers in the state to support government at all levels, particularly on security of life and property which is currently the major challenge of the country. Akeredolu said: “I encourage you to accommodate everyone in your community, bearing in mind that the responsibility to lead Isinkan to its next level of socio-economic development has been placed on your shoulders. “Let me also advise the Kabiyesi to restrict your governance to your domain only. Any idea to extend your territory to other areas outside your domain will not be tolerated. May God help you to succeed in this onerous task. “In the same vein, I implore the people of Isinkan to ensure that Kablyes’s reign is remarkably peaceful and successful. His success depends greatly on the degree of loyalty, co-operation and support given to him by the people of Isinkan.” The state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr Akinwumi Sowore and Chairman, Akure South Local Government, Mr Gbenga Olaniyi, charged Isinkan residents to support the monarch. POLL In his response, the newly installed Iralepo of Isinkan, Oba Olugbenga Ojo, appreciated the governor for his magnanimity, promising to work towards the development of his domain. He appealed to all residents of Isinkan to continue to live in unity and peace, adding that they offer support and loyalty to the land. “This is the time our prayers, support consideration, assistance, encouragement, companionship and cooperation are needed more than ever,” he said