Men play a significant role in promoting contraception usage, preventing unintended pregnancies, and improving family planning policy and service delivery programs, according to research. African women have recently been heavily involved in family planning programs because they carry the weight of childbirth. However, conversations are starting to tilt more and more toward the requirement that males actively participate in the use of spousal contraception. In fact, it is thought that using this approach will help achieve goals for better gender equity and sexual and reproductive health. According to one school of thought, men can serve as the foundation for a couple’s use of contraception and gender change. A survey conducted in Nigeria found that males who support contraception are five times more likely to be married to someone who wants to use contraception. Men’s participation in family planning programs can strengthen husband-wife relations and views toward gender equality. Also, a statistic by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, 2015 -A Global Contraceptive Prevalence based on the response of married women from ages 15 to 49 confirmed low use of contraception by men. It showed that only 21 percent of men went for the direct male method – vasectomy, male Condom, withdrawal method, while other traditional methods were put at one percent. Furthermore, the same data on the methods used by women revealed that 75 percent of women used female methods- female sterilisation, pill, injectable, implant, IUD). In addition, the data shows the Global Prevalence of each option and the percentage needed. For withdrawal method, 3 percent, male condoms eight percent, Standard Days Method 0.6 percent, and male sterilisation 2.4 percent. POLL This further revealed that men’s knowledge of contraceptive methods has increased in a number of countries and that males between the ages of 35 and 45 have the most knowledge of contraceptive methods. Similarly, in another report by Kerry Macquarie et al, 2015, Men with primary education reported knowing 9 contraceptive methods, while, men with higher education reported knowing about 11 more contraceptive methods than men with no education. To this end, reproductive health experts have said in different forums that there is a need to close the knowledge gap of men in family planning education in order to increase contraception uptake in Nigeria. A 2015 National Demographic Health Survey, (NDHS) report revealed that men who are better educated, have more wealth, are monogamous, or live in urban areas prefer smaller families. Another review of NDHS surveys conducted between 1996 to 2006 found that a significant proportion of men in Saharan Africa approve of using contraception for a pregnancy. In line with a growing need for smaller families, contraception is now becoming increasingly recognised as a shared responsibility between men and women. However, men’s use of contraception remains low due to multiple barriers and challenges that keep them away from accessing and receiving the reproductive health information and care they need. Experts believe that inequitable gender norms perpetuate stereotypes that exclude men’s role in sexual and reproductive health. Since the signing into law, the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo made an explicit call for programmes and policies to educate and enable men to play a more active role in reproductive decisions, including, contraceptive method choice and use. ICPD noted that only a few governments commit to engaging men and addressing gender norms. As of 2014, only 22 percent of governments prioritised gender norms and made engagement. Neither does Nigeria’s national policies effectively engage men in supporting their partners to use contraceptives nor does it promote men’s use of male methods. On the other hand, some countries have successfully integrated policies regarding men’s involvement in sexual and reproductive health. For example, in 2003, Cambodia integrated guidelines on reaching men as family planning users and supportive partners into its 2006 to 2010 national strategic framework for sexual and reproductive health. Therefore, it is noteworthy for African countries, particularly Nigeria to take cognizance of their bulging youth population made of adolescent boys which cannot be ignored. A data by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Reference Bureau, 2017 shows that as of 2015 the youth population from ages 10 to 19 worldwide is 1.2 billion, while adolescent boys from ages 10 to 19 years are 623 million. The data further stated that nine in 10 of the global youth population lives in less developed regions, even as 107 births per 1,000 women from ages 15 to 19 years also occur in least developed countries. It is crucial to comprehend the difficulties male partners face in promoting family planning and the use of contraceptives, which eventually leads to an increase in unwanted pregnancies. Appropriate strategies can be applied by identifying the obstacles that male partners pose. Finding out how male partners support and encourage adherence and use, as well as how these helpful tactics might be implemented into policy to increase the adoption and use of contraceptives, is equally crucial. Therefore, according to family planning experts, Nigeria should prepare her boys to use contraception in the future and to be responsible partners.