The entry of GS4 crossover Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), with lots of alluring state-of-the-art facilities in interior and exterior is set to change the face of automobile industry in the Nigerian market. Chinese brands from the Guangzhou Automobile Group Company, popularly known as GAC Motor is gradually appealing to car enthusiasts across all segments not just in Nigeria, but across the world, while Very Important Persons (VIPs) are always exultant to be associated with its products. At the unveiling of the all-new GS4 SUV, showroom and workshop of GAC Motor over the weekend in Lagos, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other stakeholders in the financial and automobile industries in Nigeria, attested to the top quality performance of all GAC brands and equally expressed hope that the new brand would continue to radiate the high level routine in the sector. According to Sanwo-Olu, the GS4 is an interactive car with fully automated facilities, which makes driving easier for drivers and other occupants. He explained further that the cordless phone charging device in the interior of the car makes driving more enjoyable, concentrating without the apprehension of phone running out while driving. The governor added further that his association with GAC brands dated back to the pre-2019 era when he was elected as the governor of the state and emphasised that he had never been disappointed in all its brands. “I have been using the GAC brands before I became the governor in 2019. Since then, I have not for once been disappointed in any of its brand and I am sure the latest GS4 is design with the same technology of all its brands. “This car is full of the latest technology in town. Some of its technologies are not found in any cars yet. The cordless phone charging device will definitely attract you more to the brand.” POLL Also, Chief Diana Chen, the Chairman, GAC Motor, Nigeria, said the GS4 is coming into the Nigerian market to take over the auto industry and create a difference. According to her, the car comes with 1.5 litre turbo charge engine, which makes fuel consumption low, offers lots of razzle-dazzle for not much money. Like others before it, Chen said the latest brand is equipped with lots of technology and the mechanical refinement is not usually the top-of-mind criteria for the product. The GS4 Chen added comes with refinement, comfort, easy handling and overall simple in features. In a bid to make acquisition of the brand and others easier for enthusiasts, GAC signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Wema Bank for the sales of at least 1,000 GAC vehicles to clients. According to her, the financial institutions had about two years sold 1,000 brands of GAC Motors with positive testimonies, stressing that the automobile company has had remarkable times with the company in Nigeria. She said: “Our relationship with Wema Bank has been fantastic over the years. We were a small company and at that stage, not everyone gives you the opportunity to succeed, but the reverse was the case with the Wema Bank. We really enjoy the growing together with the bank.” Also, Mr. Ademola Adebise, the Managing Director, Wema Bank gave testimony to the quality of GAC vehicles. Adebise explained that for almost three years, the bank have been using GAC brand without any challenge on its performance and lauded the GAC Motor for the launch of the new brand – GS4, which he predicted would take over the SUV segment. “The acceptability of the GS4 is increasing regularly in Nigeria and the impact of GAC Motor Nigeria in the Nigerian economy could not be over-emphasised. In the area of employment, the company has given jobs to teeming qualified youth, while it is also contributing to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Lagos and Nigeria as a whole.”