LAGOS – Chairman of Senex Group, Orhosere Okeoghene, has decried the state of the finance sector in the country, saying that Financial companies, are at a crossroads, despite having the power to affect practically every aspect of the economy and play a critical part in its transformation. He noted that in the prospective decades and beyond, financial firms’ capacity to grab the rising opportunities that our changing environment brings will have a huge impact on the industry as well as our collective human experience. ‘Not everything will go according to plan, and businesses will need to plan for the inevitable setbacks that will occur during the next years’. He added that “Financial services may lead the way to a more inclusive, educated, sustainable, collaborative, and successful future if they exemplify the values of a higher bottom line that puts people on par with profits and actions over intent.” Okeoghene is the founder of Senex Pay Limited, a financial services firm, in 2016. Its Billings, payments, and remittances features are among the brand’s services, as it is often used for international money transfers, purchases, and payments. The company however has various business corporation, making it a consumer-centric brand. Consumers on the other hand, can carry out crypto transactions, receive payments, transfer money, and pay bills. According to him, SenexPay, is subsidiary of Senex Group, is well on her direction to conserving her first session of bargain, through a series of A-list clans, to support product development and engineering, market penetration and proliferation, licenses and regulatory compliance, so we determine the brand raises a round. While expressing his displeasure with the sector’s incessant regulatory practices, Okeoghene further stated that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s ban on cryptocurrencies had caused most entrepreneurs to relocate to other developed countries, resulting in a significant loss of tax revenue for the Federal Government.