OYINKAN SOMORIN Recently, the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria celebrated its tenth National Conference. The event, which takes place every three years was celebrated at Oregun Road, Ikeja, Lagos State in 2022. The three-day event was attended by members of the society from all over the world, with over thirty awards given to the deserved recipient. At the event, the President of the society worldwide, Dr. Abdurafiu Ademola Sanni spoke on the success of the event after the last conference. “This is the tenth series since it became a triennial event, wherein members worldwide gather to review their programmes and activities over a time span and set timelines for the immediate and long terms. “This conference is also used to engage governments at all levels via contributions on germane global and national issues directly or indirectly affecting Islam and Muslims. “Since the last conference at Abuja in 2019, we have recorded major milestones in our programmes and projects, including a permanent operational license for our Summit University in Offa. The university now has full accreditation for all degree programmes offered. It is imperative that we sustain the tempo so that the institution can grow,” he said. Chairman of the year 2022 Conference Planning Committee, Adeniji Kazeem; spoke on the success of the event. -Advertisement- POLL “This is an event that comes up every three years and it brings together members of the society to deliberate on a wide range of issues affecting the society. “Members come from different parts of the country to witness this event. The conference is a three-day event. On the first day was the opening of the conference with the theme: “Eko 2022”. The lecture was given by Chief National Missioner, Abdur Rahman Ahmad, who spoke on parenting and the impact it has on children.’ “The second day deals with reports of what has been happening over the years within the society. Elections and installations of new executives will be done during this event. For this year, our President, Dr. Sanni retained his position, alongside members of his cabinet. “On the final day, we give the merit award to deserving members of the society. These are members who contribute to society. The awards are designed to encourage them to do more and also to encourage those who have plans to do something similar for society. I am happy that despite our society attaining hundred years old, we are still waxing strong,” he said