Truly, we are going through hard times. I can recall vividly Adeola saying ‘Ilu Le’ when he was sojourning in Akure. It is needless going into details here. But to put it briefly, Ade suffered pangs of hunger in the place of his brief sojourn in. I can recall too in my toddling years in Uncle Sam’s Vanguard newspapers, where I cut my teeth in journalism, with late veteran and excellent journalist Ely Obasi as Head of Features, I wrote an earth quaking piece published under the general house column tagged Personal View. The piece was titled ‘I am Dying’. This was one of my best stories in my about three decades stint in journalism practice todate. The response the story drew was huge. The story was on the agonizing pain Nigerians had to bear then as a result of high prices of consumer items, foods in particular. Period was mid/ late 80s. Over a quarter of a century now, that pain is still with us. I am still dying, we are still dying. Who cares? If you don’t agree with me, you must be one of those up there who have access to State largess; who have access to State humongous emoluments, government rosy contracts. You must me on the list of those who have deep pockets. But those who are feeling the pinch, would agree with me that ‘country hard’. Really hard. For those who are married, their wives who interface with foods sellers in the market place would agree because their monthly food allowance has become too lean to meet home needs. A kilo of fish which sold for N600/700 two years back is currently between N1200 and N2000 and more, depending on the type of fish. Same goes for a litany of other foods – beef, pepper, onion, tomatoes, yam, potatoes, garri, yam flour, plantain, fruits, fast-moving consumer products, etc. With Covid, fruits are now a luxury. Ade consoled himself with the mantra ‘No pain no gain’. But the pain is staying for too long. How long would one wait for the gain. Must we die waiting for an elusive gain? How did we get here? Why did we get here? Bad leadership of course. Greed and graft flaunting leadership. Corrupt leadership. Mismanagement. Misappropriation. Insecurity – Boko Haram –terrorism, bandits – kidnappers. As if this was not enough travail, Covid-19 locked-in the economy all over the globe. All these and consequent the inflation, with food inflation leading the pack, climaxed into the hell we are in now. This is why one is not surprised that the Secretary General of the United Nations described the coming famine around the world as a “hurricane of hunger.” My professional colleague, Danielle Nierenberg, American author, activist and journalist, wrote in recently to intimate me about Dr Roland Bunch’s article titled ‘What Will Be the Most Effective Way of overcoming the ‘Hurricane of Hunger’? When she first met Dr. Roland Bunch, according to her, “I have to be honest—he scared me”. She said as one of the well-respected leaders on agronomy and resilient land management, “he offers extremely prescient predictions on how famines take root when soils fail— and also has an admirably clear-eyed view of what we need to do better”. -Advertisement- POLL When they first met in the mid-2000s Dr Bunch described how farmers in Malawi and other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa were noticing their soil was getting tired – maize yields were unpredictable and decreasing year to year— problematic when that’s the crop you depend on most for both consumption and sale to earn your livelihood. She said droughts were a major concern, but that Dr. Bunch understood that farmers were, rightly, more worried about loss of soil fertility. The problem: Droughts and depleted soils can be difficult to distinguish. While fertile soils can soak up and retain what little rain does fall, depleted soils become compacted and water simply runs off, so each problem accentuates the other. Plus, when farmers are facing infertile soils, they are more likely to move to new areas of land, which unfortunately eats up arable land without regenerating it. And in some cases, folks give up farming altogether and move to cities, where it’s difficult for them to find jobs that match their skills. Danielle said Dr Bunch wrote this warning right around the 2007–08 food and financial collapse, which stretched into riots and famines around the globe over the next half-decade, and unfortunately we may be back where we were then. Dr. Bunch, she said, “warns that the coming famine will be a ‘hurricane of hunger,’ which sounds ominous to me and so many of us who work in this space…” Why wouldn’t ‘country be hard’ when we are faced with a myriad of suffocating socio-economic challenges? ‘Ilu Le’ (Country Hard). Do they care? We care because we are badly hit.