AWKA  – A former president general of Isuaniocha community in Awka North Local Government Area of Anambera State, Comrade Tony Onyeagolu, has explained that the major reason why he was removed from office abruptly was because he did not support the selling of portions of land belonging to Community Secondary School, Isuaniocha. Reacting to a release by the Commissioner for Homeland Affairs, Mr. Chikodi Anara, he described as false all the allegations leveled against him while challenging the official to substantiate his claims. According to Onyeagolu, Anara asked him to sell the land to one Mr Cosmos Okonkwo. “I said no to the directive and said to him, you were the security adviser to governor Willie Obiano and the government told us that we are to protect government facilities in our various towns, how will I join you to sell my communal land already donated to our secondary school. People should ask Mr Chikodi Anara why he is always supporting hoodlums in Isuaniocha against the general wish of the town; let him explain why a security vehicle donated to a vigilance group in my town is still parked at police custody’. “His called boys used the vehicle when they murdered Ifeanyi and Chukwuebuka at Umuzocha and the investigation is going on since January 19th 2019, Mr Anara knows about this and he has not asked about the Hilux and the deceased car which is still parked at CPS”. “The administration of Willie Obiano set up a panel over the secondary school land headed by late traditional ruler of Nteje, Igwe Rowland Odegbo of blessed memory, the panel found out that my hands were clean, but Mr Anara who was the then security adviser to the governor never allowed that report to see the light of the day. Even all the petitions I wrote to the governor, he frustrated it and never allowed any to get to the executive governor’ Onyeagolu said following a petition he wrote to the National Assembly, the Senate Committee on Ethics invited Anara to appear before it to explain his role in the Isuaniocha issues but he declined and later sent letter of allegations which led to the committee calling the SSG, Professor Solo Chukwulobelu, to confirm the state government stand on the matter. Reacting to the foregoing, the Homeland Affairs Commissioner Mr. Chikodi Anara said, “I really hate to trade words with Anthony Onyeagolu. Looking ordinarily at what he is saying, is it possible that even the worst government anywhere can remove a PG from office because he refused to collaborate with other people to sell land belonging to a school owned by the same government? How do we classify this and other cock and bull stories he is telling?” -Advertisement- POLL He added, “I have made it clear that my only concern with Anthony Onyeagolu is that one, he must answer to the shooting of Chidiebere Okoye, hitherto a star footballer that he, with his gang, crippled with bullets and quarantined into a wheelchair. Chidiebere is there at Isuaniocha for anybody to interview.