….promises to work for, vote for credibility, not political structures Countdown to the 2023 polls, groups supporting former Governor Peter Obi of Anambra state and former running mate to former Vice President Atiku Abubarkar in the 2015 election, for President has emerged in parts of Niger state. The groups met at different locations within Minna, the state capital over the weekend and resolved at their separate gatherings to dedicate their time and resources to enlighten citizens on the salient qualities of Peter Obi compared to other Presidential aspirants. Addressing members at the IBB Pen House, Minna the Convener of Peter Obi Support Network (POSN), Malam Ismaila Favu said Nigeria is in dire need of change from the old folks to a young man whose integrity and track records has not been in doubts to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari next year. Ismaila Favu, a seasoned journalist and unionist mocked those who claimed that Peter Obi has no structures to emerge President in 2023, pointing out that, ‘for years those who claimed to have structures together impoverished and exploited Nigerians, this time we will work for and vote credibility above structures’. Also at the Mid-Event Resort, Minna, Coordinator of, Peter Obi Presidential Global Network (PPGN) in Niger state, Dr. Philip Ifejika said the gathering is to enlighten citizens on the need to support the Presidential bid of former Governor Peter Obi of Anambra state. Dr. Ifejika said the meeting which was well attended by leaders of many socio-cultural groups in Niger state provided the opportunity for supporters of Peter Obi to meet and strategize ahead of electioneering campaign kick-off. The Labour Party Legal Adviser, Akingbade Oyelekan, had during the question and answer session said membership of the party nationwide has continued to swell as a better political alternative for Nigerians ahead of the 2023 general elections. Contrary to speculations on the cost of forms for all contestable seats including; Senatorial, House of Representatives, Governorship and State Houses of Assembly, Oyelekan gave detailed breakdown of how much forms for each of the positions cost. The Legal Adviser however stated in clear terms that, Labour Party has no room for people who are not ready and willing to make financial commitments towards actualising their political ambitions by way of expecting that forms be given to them free to contest any seat. Also speaking, Chairman of the party in Niger state, Mohammed Musa told supporters that Labour Party has offices across the 25 Local Government Areas and is still counting the number of new members since Peter Obi indicated interest to contest under the party. They also used the occasion to unveil the party’s Governorship aspirant, Engineer Usman Mohammed, who encouraged participants to mobilise more support for Labour Party and Peter Obi for President, come 2023. While another Peter Obi support group is said to be meeting at another residential facility within Minna metropolis, Daily Independent reports that the agenda of the; PPGN, POSN and the others at the respective inaugural meetings is to ensure good governance for Nigerians which according to them can only be guaranteed if Peter Obi emerges President in 2023. If there is anything to go by what the proponents of rotational presidency had envisaged that it should be between the three major regions and tribes; Hausa-Fulani who has dominated the scene since independence, followed by the Yoruba and the Igbo, the groups said they see no reasons why the goal post should be adjusted when it comes to the turn of an easterner. Except for Goodluck Ebele Jonathan from the south-south region, who providence brought to the scene when former President Umar Musa Yar’adua died and he became President, the groups argued that; equity, justice and fairness is very much lacking in the current equation hence their strong support for Peter Obi. Apart from the fact that the former Anambra state Governor has intimidating records compared to other aspirants, the groups said he represents the face of the Nigerian youths that will not be President by proxy or engaging in activities that promotes capital freight but will change the narratives that has almost made Nigeria the capital of corruption world over.