Abuja – Henceforth, oil and gas companies that failed to remit outstanding taxes, royalties and levies to the federation account would face legal actions, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has threatened. NEITI gave this warning on Thursday at a ceremony marking this year’s African Day of Anti-Corruption in Abuja, stressing that the outstanding taxes, royalties and levies yet to be remitted to the federation account stood at about $6.4 billion (N2.66 trillion). Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, the Executive Secretary, NEITI, at the event, noted that while a large portion of the amount has been paid by defaulting companies, it warned that it will instigate action against those that have failed to remit the outstanding amount to the government. “All the companies who still doubt our resolve to sustain this drive that we will not hesitate to activate our standing agreements with relevant anti-corruption agencies to recover the funds”. The ceremony had the theme, ‘Strategies and mechanisms for the transparent management of COVID-19 funds’. Dr. Orji, who was represented by NEITI’s Director of Technical, Dr. Dieter Bassi, stated that it was important that public resources were handled in a transparent manner. According to him, “We need fiscal transparency to ensure that public funds are used for the purpose for which they are meant. We need ownership transparency to ensure that those entrusted with public resources do not themselves become the principal beneficiaries of these resources. POLL “We also need ownership transparency to ensure that when public resources are stolen, we are able to track and recover them”, he added. Earlier, in a pre-recorded address, President Muhammadu Buhari called for an end to illicit financial flow from developing countries into safe havens in western nations. He said this would make it more difficult for those who steal public funds to hide it in these countries. “Corruption is evil and all efforts aimed at tackling it are desirable. I have monitored the fight against corruption in Africa and I can see both successes and setbacks. The battle must continue for the sake of the continent and its people no matter the difficulties”, he added.