TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI Having played hide and seek with the listing of Katsina-born Ibrahim Masari as a placeholder to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) , Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) finally showed his colour last week when he finally announced former Borno state governor, Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shetimma as his running mate in the 2023 presidential election. Political watchers said Tinubu’s choice of Shettima, is a throwback to 29 years ago in the 1993 general election when Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola, a Muslim, chose Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, also a Muslim, as his vice presidential candidate under the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the aborted Third Republic. Even though the Abiola/ Kingibe emerged victorious in the presidential election held on June 12, 1993, the election was annulled by the military junta of General Ibrahim Babangida. While many had argued that a Muslim-Muslim ticket is impracticable now as the circumstances of 1993 and 2023 are not the same, Tinubu defied them with his choice of Shetimma, saying he is reenacting the spirit of June 12 1993 with his choice. In a statement issued by him, the former Lagos state governor recalled that Nigerians accepted the late Chief MKO Abiola despite his selection of a Muslim running mate in the June 12, 1993 election, regarded as the fairest and fairest poll in the history of the country. The statement read: “The spirit of 1993 is upon us again in 2023. I have never been an indecisive man and have no present intention to become one. Having now listened to the sage, careful advice of a broad section of the party and of the nation, there are a few points I feel I must make about the exceptional and extraordinary person with whom I will share the APC ticket and the principles of open and good governance that informed this choice”. “I am mindful of the energetic discourse concerning the possible religion of my running mate. Just and noble people have talked to me about this. Some have counselled that I should select a Christian to please the Christian community. Other have said I should pick a Muslim to appeal to the Muslim community. Clearly, I cannot do both. “Both sides of the debate have impressive reasons and passionate arguments supporting their position. Both arguments are right in their own way. But neither is right in the way that Nigeria needs at the moment. As president, I hope to govern this nation toward uncommon progress. This will require innovation. It will require steps never before taken. It will also require decisions that are politically difficult and rare. POLL “If I am to be that type of President, I must begin by being that type of candidate. Let me make the bold and innovative decision not to win political points but to move the nation and our party’s campaign closer to the greatness that we were meant to achieve. “Today, I announce my selection with pride because I have made it not based on religion or to please one community or the other. I made this choice because I believe this is the man who can help me bring the best governance to all Nigerians, period, regardless of their religious affiliation or considerations of ethnicity or region.” Tinubu’s choice has met with stiff resistance from the Nigerian Christian community who believed that his action smacks of religious intolerance and contempt as according to them, there are many northern Christians in the ruling party who are capable of delivering the much-needed votes for the APC. Others also argued that Tinubu by his actions has justified the fear of some Nigerians that the northerners don’t see him as a real Muslim, hence the need for him to pair with a northern Muslim in order to secure votes from the region. In its reaction, the Christian political leaders within the APC in the 19 Northern States have rejected the Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket, describing it as a flagrant violation of the party’s constitutional provision. According to a communique issued at the end of its meeting held in Abuja, the APC Christian leaders declared that, “The APC party constitution preamble states “will guarantee equal opportunity for all mutual and peaceful co-existence respect and understanding, eliminating all forms of discrimination and social injustice among Nigerian.” The communique, which was signed by the duo of Professor Doknan Db Sheni and Professor Saidu Ibrahim, read: “The meeting noted with concern the resignation of some high profile Christians from the APC across the states of the federation, as a consequence, with more to follow unless concerted efforts are made to redeem our party from hate mongers and those who seek to exploit religion to perpetuate their self-interests as opposed to the national interest.” They stated that “as Christians within the APC, we cannot, in all fairness to our consciences and faith go to our various constituencies to campaign for a Muslim-Muslim ticket.” The APC Christian leaders also argued that Nigeria is a multi-religious and constitutional democracy and not a theocracy with religion as a major national fault line which cannot be whimsically manipulated without dire political consequences on our peaceful co-existence as a people. On the contrary, the APC in the North West geopolitical zone has declared support for the choice of Shettima. A statement by the zone’s publicity secretary, Malam Musa Mailafiya Mada, sai that prominent among issues raised at the meeting was the emergence of Senator Kashim Shettima as the running mate of the party’s presidential candidate Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu and how the Zone should position itself in bringing victory to the party at all levels. “Participants resolved to work for the unity of party members and stronger commitment to mobilize Nigerians to vote to elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima as the next president and vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and all candidates of the APC in the 2023 general elections.” On his part, the immediate past Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Babachir Lawal, has declared that the APC presidential Muslim-Muslim ticket is dead on arrival. According to Lawal, President Muhammadu Buhari must prevail on Tinubu to drop Sen Kashim Shettima as his running mate if the APC must survive. In a statement he personally issued, Lawal described the selection of a Muslim-Muslim ticket as a disastrous error. “I thought I would be able to avoid commenting on the disastrous error by my very good friend, Sen Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in his choice of a running mate. I will be the very last person to stand in the way of my very good friend Tinubu’s path to the presidency. “This is because since 2011 my consuming passion has been for him to succeed Buhari as President of Nigeria. It will not be true if I say that I did not see it coming. “I have often read his body language, picked up snippets from several discussions with his lapdogs (some of whom, sadly are Christians but most of whom are moslems) and I have conveyed my reservations to them against the pitfalls of a moslem-moslem ticket towards which I sensed they were drifting, ” Lawal said. “And why Kashim Shettima? He is an overambitious man who has a Machiavellian bent and has lots of money with which to procure a preferred-candidate status among Tinubu’s lapdogs. “And as we are beginning to see, to also procure bogus supporters especially from among the Christian community to help launder his no-so-good image. While defending Tinubu, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN) said there was nothing wrong in flying a Muslim-Muslim ticket if it will enhance his victory in the 2023 Presidential election. Sagay who is the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) said religion shouldn’t be a factor when a candidate is looking for a running mate that can enhance his victory in an election. He said “My attitude to it is a very practical one. You are in an election to win the election. Pick the candidate that will enhance your victory, regardless of his religion”. “If a candidate is in an election and he is serious about winning, he should do a detailed analysis. Any person that will enhance his victory, that is the person he should select as running mate”. When asked if the North can accept a Christian- Christian ticket in the future, Sagay who is also a chieftain of the ruling party said “That is an interesting question. It is a question of social level of development. I think we in the South are sufficiently socially developed to accept the practical outcomes in the electoral process without bothering what religion the person comes from”. “So, if the northerners will not normally accept that, that should not be a measurement of our own response to the situation. It means the South is more socially developed”.