Despair is produced in the unrighteous by divine judgement. Evil doers have no rest or peace of mind. Their lives hang in doubt. They have no assurance of their lives. Their hearts tremble and fear both day and night because their works displease God. The wicked do not trust in God who provides hope for tomorrow, but depend on earthly wisdom, their evil deeds, and the devil, for breakthrough. Relying on your strength or the devil will fail you. To avoid disappointment, trusting God is the way forward. Today, the world is experiencing recession/economic downturn, which have made many miserable. Making ends meet is hard for many, but as believers, we must not despair. We must be hopeful because the grace of God will see us through. Do not backslide or go into shady dealings, because of anxiety. We are in a world of materialism. People prefer to cut corners to have mansions and flashy cars, but when they find it hard to achieve all these things, they become downcast and fall into a state of total desperation. Jesus is the way out of hopelessness. If we are already in sin because of the fear of tomorrow, or because we want to achieve our goals, it’s high time we came out of it. We must not continue in sin and wish that the grace of God abounds. Do not say there’s no hope. Do not walk after your own devices, and do not do the sinful imagination of your heart, because there will be consequences. Return now from your evil way. Some have resulted into blaspheming God, because they feel their bad situations have no remedy. That is not the way to go. We serve a God that answers prayers, and if he has not answered you, he is teaching you a lesson that will be of benefit to you. Waiting patiently for God, helps us to know more about God, and everlasting Joy is attained in the end. Saints are sometimes tempted to despair, but God is still in charge. Saints are enabled to overcome hopelessness. “We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed” (2Corinthians 4:8-9). Elijah became discouraged and fearful. This was a great man of God, who conquered the prophets of Baal through the grace of God upon his life, but due to the fear of Jezebel, he fled for his life into the wilderness, where he felt defeated and worn out. He said in 1Kings 19:4 that he had had enough, and prayed that his life be taken. He said he wasn’t better than his ancestors. That was a prayer of sorrow and anguish. Job suffered great loss. He was physically ill and devastated. His wife asked him why he was still holding on to his integrity. She asked him in Job 2: 9 to curse God and die. In the midst of Job’s tragedy, he never disappointed God. He held on to his faith in God Trusting in God is a preservative against despair. “Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God” (Psalms 42:11). Believing God in whatever situation you find yourself is paramount. Do not compromise your faith in Christ. Do not contemplate on committing suicide. Jesus is the way out of depression. Suicide will bring more harm to you and your loved ones, and also sentences you to eternal damnation. In whatever you are passing through, God will not forsake you, for he is with you. If you stand firm in him, he will be there for you in good and dark days. The Lord will lift you out from the pit of pain and suffering because he still cares.