The trend of resignations in the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) continued on Monday as three key members of the party including former Transportation Commissioner, George Tolofari resigned from the party. Tolofari, who was a governorship aspirant of the party for the 2023 elections, had served as commissioner under the administration of Rotimi Amaechi as Governor of the state. His resignation was contained in a letter he addressed to the APC chairman in Ward 12, Bonny Local Government Area. Tolofari said the APC came to power on the mantra of anti-corruption, justice and equity but expressed dismay that everything it preached against held sway and even threaten the existence of the county. The former Transport commissioner after reviewing the state of affairs of the APC-led government in the country was exiting his membership of the main opposition party in the state. “The above subject matter refers. Joining the APC was based on personal conviction, but having reviewed the general state of affairs of the APC-led government in the country, I’m no longer convinced of my continued stay in the party. “The APC came on the mantra of anti-corruption, justice, equity and insecurity. But today that hope is dashed as insecurity, corruption and injustice stare us squarely in the face and threaten the very existence of our beloved country. “To my dear leaders and die-hard party faithful in Bonny who see me as a role model and a loyal party man, I’m sorry to disappoint you by my decision. I guess I’m human after all, forgive me. POLL “My gratitude goes to my leader, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi and the party for the opportunity to serve the state and the party in the recent past. “Although this is a very difficult and painful decision to make I believe it’s time to move on. Let me also take this opportunity to wish the APC all the best in the forthcoming elections in 2023.” Also on Monday, two other members of the party Briggs Augustine Kenneth and Hon Theodore George will from the Akuku Toru local government area of the state tendered their resignations from the party. It will be recalled that former commissioners who served under Amaechi, Dame Ibim Semenitari (Information and Communications) and Dr Dawari George (Energy and Natural Resources) had also resigned their membership of the party.