ABUJA – Prince Ademola Adewole Adegoroye, the Minister of State for Transportation, has said that routine exercise is panacea for a healthy workforce as it promotes health of body and mind leading to increased productivity. Mr. Eric Ojiekwe, the Director, Press and Public Relations, in a statement, noted that the Minister spoke Friday when the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, led members of the Sports Club to present to him a set of trophies won at the June edition of the Walking/Jogging Exercise to commemorate the 2022 Civil Service Week. “I am going to join you and we are going to do this together” he said, adding that keeping healthy promotes a lighter and happier individual while not doing so has negative effects on the body. The Minister urged the Sports Club to make sure the trophies which are for a cycle of one month and are up for another deserving team at the July Walking/Jogging must be brought back home in July and always. Speaking further, the Minister extolled the Permanent Secretary as according to him, it was through the instrumentality of her exceptional, innovative and purposeful leadership that the sports club won the laurels. He equally appreciated her efforts at fully kitting the staff and setting up an ultra-modern workout gym, saying that this is a pointer to a new Nigeria where leaders prioritize welfare of all. On the numerous requests that were made, including a bus for the Sports Club, the Minister of State promised to discuss the issues with the Minister of Transportation, Engr. Ma’azu Jaji Sambo and to assist within his capacity to the attainment of a fit and healthy transport workforce. Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Ajani, noted that the office work is sedentary so encourages accumulation of calories which is unhealthy for the body and it was in this regard that she encouraged the Ministry’s sports club to resuscitate sporting activities. POLL Also speaking at the presentation, the Director, Human Resource Management, Patricia Umo, observed that sports is the only fora that promotes peace, development and unity irrespective of political affiliations, praying the Minister to support the Permanent Secretary to give the Sports Club the desired support. Also speaking the Sports Manager, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Sports Club, Engr. Samson Ojon, explained that the trophies were for best kitted and for having the highest number of attendants at the event. He pledged that with the kind of support from the the Ministry, the team will continue to do well.