GBENGA FATUROTI Uneasy calm has gripped the State of Osun as residents goes to poll Saturday 16th July 2022 to elect a new administration that will run the affairs of the state for another four years. The state is presently under the control of All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Adegboyega Oyetola is seeking re-election on the platform of the party while 14 other registered political parties and their candidates are seeking Oyetola’s plum job and position. Participating parties include the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with its candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, Accord Party and its candidate, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, Social Democratic Party and its candidate, Architect Goke Omigbodun, Labour Party and its candidate, Hon. Lasun Yusuf and former Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives among others. Majority of the contestants are known faces in the contest for positions of authority in the state and first timer except Oyetola and Adeleke who are slugging it out for the second time. According to reliable information gathered from Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), 1,955,657 registered voters are qualified to vote in the coming election and the body has indicated its readiness to be fair and just in conducting a free and fair poll. As at the time of filling this reports, investigation conducted by Independent Newspapers however revealed that security agencies have drafted additional personnel from headquarters and other states to assist in the conduct of the exercise while non-sensitive and sensitive materials have arrived the state and placed in very secured custody. Contest Between Oyetola, Adeleke And Others POLL Our findings further revealed that the Saturday election might look like a straight fight between the ruling APC and opposition PDP. Though other parties might spring surprises but not to the level of having significant votes in winning the poll because they lack political structure, financial capacity, popularity and public acceptance in the 30 local government councils of the state unlike APC and PDP. In 2018, Oyetola managed to win the poll with just 482 votes. He defeated Adeleke at the re-run election that took place in seven polling units across four local government areas after the first ballot. Adeleke had in the first ballot won with 353 votes after polling 254,698 against Oyetola’s 254,345. However, there are slight political factors to be considered in projecting who wins the July 16 governorship election. First and foremost, both PDP and APC are enmeshed in internal schism as they are preparing to renew their bitter rivalry ahead of the poll. Both of them have been torn apart into camps with several court cases threatening their peace. So Adeleke and Oyetola already have political enemies that would want to pull them down in making their dreams come true. But Oyetola has since coming on board, making frantic efforts to bridge the supposedly wide gap between the government and various strata sectors of the state by fraternizing with various groups of individuals and groups. For a very long, the current administration has been engaging the people for support and their votes by attending to their needs. Apart from regular payment of salaries of workers in the state, revitalizing the primary health centres and communities across the 332 wards of the state, the administration has warmed itself to the heart of individuals and groups through the civic engagement office and anchored by Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Special Adviser to Governor Oyetola. The office has made people assumed their role as critical stakeholder in the state political system, with a view to engendering inclusive and participatory governance of the state. The government also launched its feedback website to enable residents of the state have easy access to government for inquiries and complaints about government programmes. This afforded them, the opportunity of direct contact with the government and its activities through modern technology. Equal another milestone was achieved by launching online television and radio for quick dissemination of government activities and other news story. Few days ago to be precise, Oyetola government flagged off disbursement of N300million micro credit facilities to 5,000 small scale entrepreneur and also presented CAC certificates to them to stimulate the state economy and create wealth for the benefit of the masses and incoming generation as contained in government development’s agenda. The soft loan ranges between N250,000 to N3m. Osun Labour Backs Oyetola As at the time of filling this report, all the three organised labour unions in the state have not hiding their desire to support the administration of Oyetola describing it as labour friendly government. The labour is also planning a joint labour movement to drum support for Oyetola re-election bid as at the time of filling this report. A statement issued and signed by Comrade Jacob Adekomi, State NLC chairman, Bayo Adejumo, Chairman, Joint Negotiation Council and Kola Adebowale, Chairman, TUC fixed the rally at Nelson Mandela Freedom Park, Osogbo, though not majority of state workers backed the action. The emergence of APC presidential candidate and National Leader of the party, Bola Ahmed Tinubu may also count and work in favour of Oyetola. It was the believe of the majority that Oyetola would enjoy the power of incumbency and also full support from the party’s presidential candidate who is believe to be his godfather and his uncle. Another challenge Oyetola would have to contend with is the agitation by people of Osun West Senatorial District to produce the governor. After Senator Adeleke, Osun West has not produced another governor. In 1999, Chief Adebisi Akande from Ila-Orangun in Osun Central became the governor and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola from Okuku also in Osun Central became governor in 2003. Aregbesola from Osun East took it from Oyinlola in 2010 and handed over to the incumbent Governor Oyetola from Iragbiji, Osun Central, in 2018. The people of Osun West, where Adeleke belongs, have lamented that they have been marginalized and are determined to produce the governor of the state this time, to the disadvantage of Oyetola. With widespread complaints of hardship since the inception of the ruling APC at the central government, there are people who just want a change of government and prefer a new governor from another party in the state. This set of people appeared to have been tired of the APC and want to taste PDP again. So, their sympathy will be in favour of Adeleke. Also, this category includes those who did not benefit directly from Oyetola’s administration and want a power shift so that the benefits can rotate to another set of people in the state. Adeleke’s Strengths And Challenges No doubt, Adeleke, the candidate of PDP has continued to enjoy the goodwill of his brothers – late Senator Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke and Deji Adeleke. The late Senator Adeleke was the first civilian governor of the state while Deji Adeleke is a businessman and father of popular musician David Adeleke also known as Davido. Before he died, Senator Isiaka Adeleke was a very prominent politician in the state and had a lot of followers. Majority of those supporting the young Ademola Adeleke now are doing so because of the senior Adeleke, given their relationship with the deceased. Most people are of the opinion that if not for his late brother; Ademola would not be able to contest for governorship because he was not a politician initially. But, when he finished the senatorial tenure of his deceased brother, Adeleke was able to provide empowerment opportunities for his constituents and this would count for him positively. If the zoning agitation by the people of Osun West is anything to go by, it will favour Adeleke. Also, Senator Adeleke enjoys the backing of all serving public office holders in the party including Wole Oke, Bamidele Salam and Francis Fadahunsi. For Adeleke, the division in Osun PDP and lack of support from majority of party leaders and chieftains may be his undoing. Dotun Babayemi, one of the governorship aspirants in the party is still claiming the party ticket despite INEC’s recognition of Adeleke. If the intra-party crisis is not resolved and elders of the party brought together to support Adeleke, it may spell doom for him. Apparently, majority of the aspirants that struggled for the PDP ticket including the former Secretary to the State Government and Fatai Akinbade and their supporters might not be working for Adeleke given the circumstances surrounding the primary election of the party, while Babayemi who was declared the winner of the parallel primary election of the party might also be a big issue. Top leaders of the party that matter including Senator Olu Alabi, Alhaji Suaib Oyedokun, former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola, former Deputy Governor, Olusola Obada and Tajudeen Oladipo are all with Babayemi and it might be hard for Adeleke to face the election without their full support. Another serious issue is Adeleke’s certificate. This was a major subject during the last governorship election in the state. His opponent used the issue to distract him as they insisted that he was not qualified to contest for the election. The certificate issue is also coming up now and it may be used again. However, the PDP candidate claimed that he has obtained a certificate from an institution abroad. Oyetola, Adeleke Trade Tackles Adeleke said Oyetola is already jittery of electoral doom since the INEC approves him as the candidate of PDP. He added that the people of the state have already given the governor a ‘red card.’ Speaking at the PDP secretariat in Osogbo at the unveiling of an ex-chairman of Osun East Local Government Area of Osun State, Kola Adewusi, as his running mate, Adeleke said, “Osun people should come out and vote for me during the poll. It is clear Oyetola and his party is afraid of contesting against me. “They should not be afraid yet. They should wait till election day. They will see the people of the state have given Oyetola a red card. By the grace of God, I will be announced as the winner of the contest.” He also extended an olive branch to all co-contestants in the primary, urging unity for victory in July. In a statement by the Director of Media and Strategy of his campaign, Olawale Rasheed, the PDP candidate noted that the publication of list of candidates is the final stage of the struggle for the party’s ticket, calling on all aspirants within the party to join hands with him as mobilisation commences for the state elections. Senator Adeleke who charged Osun voters on the new era of government’s responsiveness, compassion and care said, “It is time for us as a party to join hands to face the APC to secure a landslide victory in July. “We have disagreed among ourselves. Now is the time for us to forgive and forget. We are not enemies; we are brothers. In brotherhood, we shall contest and win. So I call on our elders, leaders and fellow aspirants to strengthen and expand this winning train,” he affirmed. While assuring party members across the state of his determination to lead the party to victory, Senator Adeleke repeated his earlier red card to Governor Oyetola, saying “the game is up for the usurper in the Abere Government House. Our people are ready to vote and elect me as governor because they know me, they have my record as a senator, they know I am pro-people, they know my agenda is for them. Osun people know I will return government to the people, away from anti-people interests that exploit and pauperise them,” the statement noted. Reacting, Governor Oyetola said Adeleke’s remarks were jokes of the century adding that the people of the state are behind him (Oyetola) to continue in office. Speaking through the state Commissioner for Political Affairs and Intergovernmental Relations, Taiwo Akeju, the governor added that Adeleke could not be governor since he (Oyetola) has impacted positively on the lives of the residents. “Adeleke’s statement is a joke of the century. Oyetola is doing well for the people and they want him to continue. Adeleke will be defeated even in his Ede hometown,” Akeju said. Though there are still issues against the emergence of Adeleke and Oyetola from their respective parties, barring unforeseen circumstances, Adeleke and Oyetola would represent PDP and APC as they are the recognised candidates by the national leadership of both parties and INEC. The people of the state wait how the struggle would pan out this time. Aregbesola/Oyetola Feud: The ongoing feud between Governor Oyetola and his predecessor in office and now Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola may not have any significant effect on the chances of both PDP and APC. It is a political suicidal for Aregbesola to think of dumping the party for allegedly being schemed out of things as regards politics of the state is concerned. It is better for him to remain in the party and settle his case. It’s also very difficult for Aregbesola to pitch tent with former Osun State Deputy Governor and now National Secretary of APC, Senator Christopher Iyiola Omisore because of the animosity between them. The only saving grace for him to remain relevant in the politics in the state is for his allies to win the suit filed before the Federal High Court in Abuja over the outcome of APC Governorship primary election in the state. Aregbesola loyalists branded “The Osun Progressives” TOP had alleged that Oyetola was still member of the caretaker management committee of APC when the primary election took place which they argued was against the constitution of the party. But in its defence, Oyetola’s counsel stated that his client had secretly resigned his membership before the primary election. Despite this fact, Oyetola was cocked sure of winning the Saturday governorship election banking on his performance and his engagement of his government with all strata of individuals and groups in the state. He however appealed to all stakeholders against being engaged in any act capable of disrupting the unity and peaceful coexistence that the state is continually enjoyed. Osun Central Senatorial District For Oyetola, the APC might have a smooth electoral sail across the state because of the existing structure which comprise party executives, leaders, government functionaries, supporters and sympathisers. Specifically, the Governor is expected to have above average electoral performance in Osun Central Senatorial District because he hails from Iragbiji, Boripe Local Government. Also, Osogbo which has Osogbo and Olorunda local governments has the highest votes in the state and has always been voting massively for progressive. However, PDP will also have a good electoral show in Osogbo in the coming election because of division in the APC, recent outburst of Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun Oyetunji and what people described as ‘foot-dragging’ infrastructural development in the State Capital. The winning margin might not be that significant for APC in Osogbo. The Governor is expected to win his own local government with wide margin higher than that of the 2018. Political analysts have submitted that electorates in Orolu and Irepodun local governments of Osun central would vote massively for the LP candidate, Yussuff. The former deputy speaker of the House of Reps hails from Ilobu, Irepodun local government. According to observation, PDP is likely to win Ifelodun, Odo-Otin and Boluwaduro local governments of Osun Central. APC appears to be an orphanage in Ifelodun because of the demise of late Akinrun of Ikirun, Oba Abdurauf Olawale Adedeji and Chief Gbadamosi Owoseni. Political functionaries who are claiming to be leaders in the local government are still struggling to coordinate their immediate followers. Osun West Senatorial District The PDP is predicted to win majority of the local government in Osun West Senatorial District where Adeleke of PDP and Ogunbiyi of AP hail from. Adeleke of PDP has his electoral strength in Ede, an ancient town with two local governments, where he got his bulk vote in 2018. Adeleke got 16,693 votes as against Oyetola’s 4512 votes in Ede South while in Ede North, the PDP candidate won with 18,745 to defeat Oyetola who polled 7025. Ede North and Ede South Local Government will be delivered for Adeleke with margin higher than that of 2018, according to political analysts. Another local government which will decide the winner of the Zone is Iwo, where a former Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti and the factional chairman of the party, Hon. Rasaq Salinsile hail from. Analysts believed that the two party chieftains who have not been seen anywhere near the campaign tour of Oyetola will have a say in the election result of the local government. Adeoti is a grassroot politician who is loved by his people. This is evident in the result of the 2018 election where he contested under ADP and got 16,425 votes in Iwo. Osun East Senatorial District Osun East has no governorship candidate. But votes from the senatorial district are mainly for Oyetola and Adeleke because of party structures and political bigwigs in the area. One of the cities where PDP has strong presence is Ile-Ife, the hometown of the National Secretary of the APC, Senator Iyiola Omisore. The 2018 governorship candidate of the SDP joined APC in February 2021. The PDP is also strong in Ijesaland with personalities like Senator Francis Fadahunsi, Hon. Wole Oke, Sanya Ominrin and Mr Ibukun Fadipe. In 2018, electorate in Ile-Ife voted massively for Omisore. He won in Ife Central and Ife east local governments, while APC won Ife South and Ife North local government.