While Shakira and Gerard Piqué had their reasons for splitting, one person really, really wants them back together. That would be Shakira’s mom. “It’s logical,” Nidia Ripoll Torrado told Hola! sister publication Europa Press of the celebrity couple one day reconciling. “If that’s what they want, what makes them happy.” Ripoll is based in Barcelona, Spain, along with her husband, William Mebarak Chadid, who is dealing with ongoing health issues since a fall last month. Despite rumors she may relocate to her old stomping grounds of Miami, Shakira is over there as well, coparenting sons Sasha, 8, and Milan, 6, with Pique, who plays with La Liga there.  View this post on Instagram A post shared by Shakira (@shakira) POLL According to Spanish sports newspaper Marca, there is a custody battle royale possibly brewing between the singer and soccer player. Pique does not want his ex to leave the country with their kids, and may take the issue before a judge. “Shakira is not going to stop until she manages to move to Miami and take the children with her,” reports the media outlet. “That is her main objective. But she can’t without Pique’s consent, and he isn’t giving it to her.”  Shakira, for her part, has not discussed her new relationship status. The 45-year-old Colombian superstar is busy promoting her new show “Dancing with Myself” and taking care of her father. Earlier this week, she posted a picture of Sasha hugging his grandpa, with the caption, “You taught us to get up after each fall, and this time we know you’ll do it again.” Another video on her social media shows her helping Mebarak with his memory with flash cards. What a difference a year makes. Just last summer, Shak and her entire fam (including Pique, 35) indulged in a carb loaded meal at one of their fave restaurants La Leggenda Pizzeria in Miami Beach. The “Hips Don’t Lie” singer sold her waterfront mansion overlooking Biscayne Bay last year for right around a cool $11.6 million. Apparently, like the rest of the universe, she wants to be here.