The Governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 governorship election in Ebonyi State, Chief Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, has pledged to make every Ebonyi child a wealth creator if elected next governor of the state. Odii who made the pledge on Saturday during the official opening of his campaign office located at Amagu street, Abakaliki, noted that Ebonyi indigenes were very creative people and deserved the encouragement of the government to thrive. “My plan is to create wealth for our people. I have been creating wealth in my personal capacity and by the grace of God, when I will be entrusted with the governance of Ebonyi State, every Ebonyi child will be a wealth creator”, Odii said. The business Mogul also promised to diversify the economy of Ebonyi State by leveraging on its agricultural endowment to ensure affordable healthcare, and quality education, to build manufacturing and creative industries. Odii who solicited the support of the people, said, “the mission to transform Ebonyi State is not one man’s efforts, we must come together to make it happen.” He also thanked the PDP faithfuls for believing in his vision, and for electing him to fly the Party’s governorship flag. “One Month ago, you and the delegates chose me as the PDP Governorship candidate for the 2023 general elections, and you have been showing me solidarity which shows you believe in my vision. You have demonstrated that you have trust in me. For me, it’s a win-win for all of us”, he said. Odii also appealed to the aggrieved members of the Party to embrace and come together to wrestle power from the All Progressives Congress-led government in the state. -Advertisement- POLL “I know that there are people who are aggrieved within our party but that will soon come to an end. I, therefore, want to use this opportunity to plead for unity; let us come together as a party without faction and in solidarity with one purpose, which is to deliver good governance to our people, to be able to take over power from the APC-led government in the State. And by the grace of God, we shall”, he stated. Odii who expressed optimism that the PDP would win a landslide in the upcoming general elections in the state called on the people to get their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs), to vote and defend their votes during the elections. “We want to win landslide by the Grace of God. So, I urge all of us to get our PVCs and come out on the day of the election to vote and defend our votes, so that you can give us at least one million votes, which will give you access to good healthcare, quality education, empowerment and creative industries, amongst other dividends of democracy”, he concluded.