Renowned businessman and entertainment mogul, Obinna Iyiegbu, popularly known as Obi Cubana, has relaunched a ‘New Face’ of a global New Age Power Bank. This is coming few days after he launched a multi-billion-naira Golf City Estate in Abuja. In a ceremony attended by several people, including celebrated artists, actors and actresses, at Monarch Event Centre, Lekki, Lagos, the CEO, New Age Concepts Ltd, Chief Kingsley Opara, said his company decided to relaunch the New Age Power Bank because of the need for Nigerians. Describing the decision as a new dawn in the business strategy of the company, Chief Opara said that New Age Power Bank is manufactured by New Age Mobile Concepts Ltd, the makers of New Age phone charger and other phone accessories. ‘’Currently, New Age Concepts Ltd is among top leading mobile accessories merchandising companies in Nigeria, offering high quality mobile accessories’’, the CEO said. At the event, popular Nigerian music artist and producer, Michael Collins Ajereh, popularly known as Don Jazzy, was unveiled as the ‘’New Face’’ of global New Age Power Bank brand ambassador. Speaking during the unveiling, Cubana said his business partnership with New Age Mobile is born out of his genuine and legitimate business around the world. ‘’If you ever contemplate buying a power bank that is strong, well-matched with most mobile devices and possesses an inbuilt microcomputer automatic protection chip against overcharge or over voltage, then you can’t go wrong with New Age Power Bank. -Advertisement- POLL ‘’As you rightly known, Smartphones consume lots of battery power because they have lots of applications as well as inbuilt processors for fast operations. The celebrity said that in order to ensure top-notch quality, New Age battery-powered devices are manufactured to be versatile, so it can work with any model and brand of phone and smart device. He said the New Age Power Bank comes with different sizes, which include, New Age Pack 22500mah, 18500mah, 15600mah, 15000mah, 12500mAh and many others. As explained by the company’s market team, the power bank can charge a smartphone up to 10+ times from 0-100% full and can be relied upon.