Kalidou Koulibaly sent an emotional goodbye to Naples and the Napoli fans as he completes a €40m move to Chelsea. The 31-year-old Senegalese defender is leaving the Partenopei after eight years in order to start a new adventure in the Premier League with the Blues. He became one of the best defenders in Italy, and possibly the world, whilst with Napoli and formed an incredible bond with both the city and the supporters. Writing on his Instagram page, Koulibaly posted a video looking back at some of his memorable moments with Napoli and he penned an emotional farewell to the fans. “1 June 2014, an unforgettable date: my arrival at Napoli, the beginning of a story of pure love. “I was a shy boy, but with a great desire to prove to the world that I could do it! “Victories, defeats, joys, disappointments. Too many emotions experienced together: impossible to summarise. But I kept everything: in my mind, in my heart. “My two sons were born in Naples. I met people who will forever be part of my life and who made me and my family feel at home: from the first to the last moment. “Thanks to you, Napoli, I became the man I am today. POLL “Thanks to the club, the president, the coaches, all my teammates and all the people I have had the pleasure of working with over the years. “Thank you, Napoli and Neapolitans, for all the love we have given each other. “I am proud to have honoured you with all my heart and I will continue, forever, to carry you in my heart and to nurture for you one of the most important feelings for me: respect. “You have been, for me, everything. “Now I feel I have to leave and get back into the game: it’s time for a new adventure. “Kalidou.” During his eight years with Napoli, Koulibaly made 317 appearance across all competitions. In that time, he scored 14 goals, provided eight assists and helped the team win both a Coppa Italia and a Supercoppa Italiana title. Koulibaly will be expected to shine in the Premier League with Chelsea and now he has the chance to prove himself at the highest level.