Jurgen Klopp has revealed more Liverpool players could following Sadio Mane out of Anfield this summer. The Reds boss is thought to have shut up shop with regards to spending in the current transfer window having sealed a mega-money – potentially club-record £85million – deal for Darwin Nunez, and signed talented teenagers Fabio Carvalho and Calvin Ramsey. In terms of outgoings, Liverpool reluctantly allowed Mane to leave for Bayern Munich for a fee of £35m, alongside a number of fringe players. Divock Origi, Neco Williams, Takumi Minamino and Loris Karius are among the others who have departed the club this summer, and it seems the exodus might not end there. According to Klopp, further Anfield exits are anticipated before the transfer window closes. “It is necessary,” the Liverpool boss told ESPN when probed over the Reds’ desire to freshen up their ranks this summer. “We didn’t only lose Sadio, we also lost Divock Origi and Takumi Minamino just from the playing squad last year. “Some other players might leave as well, but we brought in Luis [Diaz] in the winter, Darwin now, Fabio [Carvalho] and Calvin [Ramsay]. It is really exciting because the boys are fresh and full of excitement — big eyes — being together with us, so it just changes the dynamic in the group and it’s really necessary. “I’m now in my seventh season and it’s important that we don’t just do the same thing again and again and again. We have to push ourselves to the next level and for that you always need a new input and that’s what we got.” Liverpool ended last season with two pieces of silverware, having battled on all four fronts throughout the campaign. The Reds followed up a League Cup triumph over Chelsea in February with a win against the same opponents in the FA Cup final, but fell short in the Premier League and in Europe. Manchester City pipped them to the title on the final day of the Premier League season as a stunning 3-2 comeback success over Aston Villa ensured a fourth English top-flight crown in five years. One week later, the Reds were agonisingly edged out 1-0 by Real Madrid in the Champions League final as Thibaut Courtois’ heroics in the Los Blancos goal kept Klopp’s side at bay and denied them a seventh European Cup. POLL It remains to be seen how Liverpool will fair next campaign following Mane’s high-profile departure this summer. The Senegalese striker has been integral to the Reds’ cause over the past six seasons and contributed a whopping 23 goals last term.