LAGOS  – The Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Agency (TRACE), has trained no fewer than 500 school teachers from over 134 primary schools in the Ogun West Area Command as road crossers for pupils and ultimately mitigate the rising cases of road crashes involving pupils trying to cross highways and busy roads while resuming classes in the morning and after close of academic hours. Cdr. Seni Ogunyemi, TRACE Commander/Chief Executive Officer, while speaking earlier on the objective of the training, said: “The Traffic Control training for teachers is actually targeted at reducing fatalities suffered by Children, especially during school hours. “Most of the crashes involving school children occur when coming to schools or closing from schools. It is particularly higher when trying to cross the road in a hurry to either get to school early because they are late or want to get home as quickly as possible. “Added to this is the over-speeding and impatient nature of motorists, especially Okada riders and Tricycle operators on mostly narrow and overcrowded roads, scouting for passengers and trying to outrun their fellow riders. These unhealthy road attitudes serve as precursors to road crashes involving school children” After the successful completion of the Ogun West training, the TCC/CEO of TRACE also mandated Cdr. Kunle Ajibade, Area Commander, Ogun West, to ensure that the Safety project is replicated in other senatorial districts of Ogun State. Oba Abdulkabir Adeyemi Obalanlege II, the Olota of Ota, came for the practical session of the programme, and participated in the work out exercises required to keep participants fit and apt to serve as effective road crossers. The Olota, also commended TRACE Agency for coming up with the programme, describing it as very essential to stemming and reducing road crashes of school children in Ota. In his address, he said, “I’m going to liaise with corporate organisations in Ota towards providing more road safety infrastructure, safety signs and modern equipment that will improve the level of safety for school children on our roads.” Mr. Sheriff A. Musa, Chairman, Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government, in his opening remarks commended TRACE for the brilliant initiative, stating that the training of teachers for the enhancement of the safety of pupils cannot be over-emphasised or come at a better time, he said, “I made it a point of duty to grace this occasion to show our avid support to the cause of our children who should not be left to the careless attitude of drivers who are mindless of other road users.” -Advertisement- POLL The training team from TRACE headquarters, Abeokuta, was led by Cdr. A. B Ajayi, Assistant TRACE Commander, who trained the teachers on traffic control, road safety and pupils’ crossing techniques. He also highlighted and interpreted some basic road safety signage, serving to guide road users of imminent dangers, while crossing the road or walking as a pedestrian by the road side. Explaining further, Cdr. Ajayi gave several examples of behavioral patterns of road crossers, especially children that should be taken into cognisance by would be crossers, including ability to gauge driving patterns and traffic mood at the point of crossing the children. Commander Akeem Ganiyu, Unit Commander, of the FRSC, Ota, trained them on roads safety regulations and rules, showcasing the various signage available and their meanings, covering; the regulatory signs, the warning signs and the informative signs, urging the participants to always look out for these signs while on the road, especially at crossing points. Mr. Bayo Fashoranti, State Training officer, Red Cross Society, took participants on how to effectively provide first aid attention to crash victims, stop bleeding, and stabilize seizures. He also trained them on types of intervention suitable for epileptic victims, electric shocks, food poisoning and host of other ailments. ACP Mohammed Musa, Area Commander, Nigeria Police, Ota, appealed to participants to be law abiding, and to promptly incident crash reports to the police for proper documenting in the case of a legal proceeding is required to be instituted against a serious traffic offender. Kabiyesi Isiyemi Akinyemi Adeniji, Alatan of Atan, who also doubles as the Head Master of St. Michael’s Primary School 1, Ota, and the host of the event, congratulated TRACE for conceiving the idea of such a programme, while appreciating the rich line up of topics participants were treated to, he said, “It is my desire that such a programme should be organised frequently for teachers in both primary and secondary schools. “There is no way that we would not have challenges, but we appeal to government to come to our aids by putting zebra crossing along these roads. This will enable pupils and others to know when and where to cross.” Alatan said. The Chairman of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAN, who doubles as the Group Corporate Affairs Manager, Sona Group of Industries, Mr Soji, Fagbemi, while applauding TRACE Corps for the initiative, also said MAN will continue to collaborate with all government agencies in supporting their programme, adding, “Before we have an open-door policy but now the door is not even there again; it has been removed”. Comrade Oyetola Folake, the Deputy Chairman, NUT Ado-Odo/ Ota Local Government, in her own contribution, said she was highly impressed by TRACE’s ingenuity in organising a training programme for teachers. “I have advised our teachers to make effective use of all they learned during the programme. It is a very good programme.” She added. Mrs Ayoola O.A, a Primary School Teacher with St. Michael’s Primary School 1, Ota, said, “It was an exciting experience for me to learn how to safely cross children before and after school. It’s particularly gratifying to learn the dynamics of patience by the road side and checking traffic mood before putting up your hands to stop oncoming vehicles to enable our pupils cross the road. “I’m also impressed with the training delivered by the Red Cross Society, giving basic understanding of how to revive unconscious children, providing first aid to an accident victim, how to stop bleeding and interventions for other vital health issues.” She added. Cdr, Ajibade Adekunle, TRACE, Area Commander, Ogun West, in his closing remarks, thanked all the organisations that donated generously to the success of the event, especially those that donated the reflective jackets, with deep appreciations for Reverend Adeboye Olukorode, Education Secretary for Ado-Odo-Ota Local Government for his immense supports in mobilising the teachers from various schools.