Ace TV and video production guru with global renown Aderemi Ogunpitan here discusses salient points to consider in making campaign videos With the political parties about to embark soon on campaigns for political posts across Nigeria, digital video content must be the go-to medium for political marketing. Because of the strategic impact of digital video, political strategists will need it for campaigns to brand their candidates, and tell stories that will resonate with Nigerians that are believable and authentic. The YouTube and social media  revolution and the subsequent introduction of smartphones with HD cameras means that the citizen filmmaker can now be a vital resource for campaigns.  I am certain that campaigns are not even looking to  develop a way to harness these amateur videographers into video strike force teams for their candidates, yet or even how to develop the conceptual and strategic framework to unleash these citizen political videographers. Speaking the visual language of the new generation is just as vital as canvassing and seeking to score political points. Critical too is the ability to speak in languages that are close to home. The ways we interact with video affect society on a more fundamental level as well. The manner in which we obtain and spread knowledge — and share our immediate experiences — has become more personal and direct, influencing the way we see the world and one another. Told from perspectives we can relate to, you get attention What will become important as the political campaigns heat up will be how candidates can authentically capture the personal sides of real people’s lives, their stories and how they intend to make a difference.  Bringing authenticity and immediacy to campaigns will be the difference that separates those seeking to make impactful connections and those just making noise. Campaigns can make epic, story-driven short films that evoke a strong emotional response for sure. Our approach at IBST is our ability to recruit, manage, and curate a volunteer video strike force team that creates consistent video content  combining two passions: politics and videography.  Many of the latent and youthful generation of Nigerians are hoping to make a career of this, and take advantage of the opportunity to work with an experienced professional team to mentor them, and likewise, create content for a candidate that can actually make a difference. It’s a win-win-win scenario. If you have your own team telling your story from your point of view, you create the brand, and you control the message. Just as one trains canvassers to accurately portray their voice as a surrogate in their neighborhoods, you can train the amateur videographers to stay on brand on social media, but do it in creative and unexpected ways. Even down-ballot and local candidates can afford to utilize video if the creators are volunteers or interns. -Advertisement- POLL The online video revolution now offers many other options and the political and communication requirements of today are invoking new strategies and implementation tools. 