Last-mile transport provider B-On, led by former BMW board member Stefan Krause, plans to build on its acquisition of electric delivery van maker, StreetScooter Engineering. krause told journalists its next objectives are to add a manufacturer of three-wheeled electric vans and to develop an “urban mobility” passenger vehicle. Krause, who served as BMW’s chief financial officer and then global sales director between 2002 and 2008, has also held senior positions at Deutsche Post, Deutsche Bank and US startups Canoo, Faraday Future and Fisker. B-On, formerly known as Odin Automotive, purchased the StreetScooter family of vans, intellectual property, tooling and manufacturer Neapco contract from Deutsche Post in January. Deutsche Post has decided to exit the van manufacturing business nearly eight years after buying the German startup in 2014. B-On will use StreetScooter’s main Work L van, its bigger brother, the Gigabox, and three-wheeler vans to create a global business focused on selling last-mile delivery solutions, Krause said on the sidelines of London MOVE, 22 urban mobility to display. The StreetScooter name will not be used on vehicles. Although Krause did not name the three-wheeler company bought by B-On, but information gathered indicated that it was Hong Kong-based Kyto Ventures. -Advertisement- POLL The rickshaw-style vehicles will be made at a factory in Indonesia, Krause said. Deutsche Post entered the electric van business after failing to find a suitable vehicle to offer zero-emission urban delivery. The decision to build the StreetScooter annoyed former Volkswagen Group CEO Matthias Mueller, who wondered why Deutsche Post hadn’t asked VW first. Deutsche Post worked with Ford to build an XL version of the StreetScooter based on the Transit van, but in 2020 the logistics company announced it would stop making StreetScooters by the end of the year due to cost to excessive. Deutsche Post, however, continued production of the StreetScooter until 2022. B-On has a contract to supply the logistics giant and its subsidiary DHL with a fixed number of vans per year. Krause declined to say how many, but the number is believed to be around 3,000 per year. The former director financial BMW plans a expansion rapid in sector of the vans electric included the American factory.