The wholly indigenous company Eroton Exploration & Production Company Limited, on Tuesday, stated its commitment to promot­ing professional and responsible oil field practices with the pro­tection of its operational envi­ronment at the core of its values. This comes in the wake of a recent Oil Spill incident which occurred on June 15, 2022, from Cawthorne Channel Well 15 Well­head (CAWC015L/S) in one of its areas of operation. CAWC015L/S is a dual string well which start­ed production in May 1977. The incident is attributed to sabo­tage from unknown persons, as the short string has been shut-in since 1988 due to High Gas Oil Ra­tio (HGOR), while the long string watered out and quit in 1991. The company spokesperson, Mercy Max-Ebibai, Head, Exter­nal Affairs and Corporate Com­munications, informed reporters that a preliminary Joint Investi­gative Visit (JIV) found that the entire valves on the Christmas Tree, wellhead accessories (such as the control valves, tree caps, etc.) were removed. The vandals also removed the well platform and gangway making it more complicated to intervene on the flowing well. The stamen reads in part: “The removal of the platform means our technicians have nothing to stand on in attempt­ing to control the unplanned flow as the well is standing at about 30 feet above sea level. On inspection by our team of Engineers and Service Contractors (marred by poor visibility from crude flow and height), it was observed that the crude oil leak is most likely from three (3) points: the Well Christmas Tree Cap, Swab and Wing Valves, which were carted away by the vandals.” Eroton also confirmed that all regulatory obligations have been adhered to with the rele­vant authorities duly notified within the allowed window. This includes the statutory Form A to NOSDRA, NUPRC, NNPC and other JV partners, the Ministry of Environment and the princi­pal representatives of the respec­tive Community Development Boards (CDB). Representatives of these stakeholders also partook in the preliminary JIV. It stated that despite chal­lenges like tidal change, Oil Spill containment activities have con­tinued in earnest. “The containment booms have been deployed and rein­forced to contain the spill spread. Oil recovery has commenced with the mechanical skimming of free phase oil, whilst a Wild Well Control vendor and our Engineers are being deployed to site to establish Well Control across all the flowing points on the Christmas Tree with a view to get the well under control. “Con­struction of a platform which would be installed around the flowing well to provide a standing point at height for the interven­tion technicians is currently in progress.” The spokesperson also high­lighted that the company is pro­actively reprioritising its security architecture to ensure additional measures in the monitoring of these vulnerable sites, to mini­mise potential vandalism and spill incidents such as this in the future. -Advertisement- POLL Empathising with the affected host communities, the company spokesperson confirmed plans for a conclusive JIV to be held immediately after the contain­ment, to estimate spill volume and Environmental Impact.