Lagos – The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has said it is on alert following the first outbreak of Marburg virus in neighbouring country, Ghana, and has released guidelines as well as put in place measures to prevent an outbreak. Ifedayo Adetifa, NCDC Director- General, stated this in a statement on Wednesday, noting that no case of the Marburg virus has been reported in Nigeria, noting, however, that steps are being taken to stop its spread. The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Monday declared an outbreak of Marburg virus disease (MVD) in Ghana, NCDC reported. The current outbreak in Ghana is the second time the virus will be detected in West Africa, after the 2021 experience in Guinea. Adetifa disclosed in the statement that given the proximity of Ghana to Nigeria as well as the WHO alert, the NCDC-led multisectoral National Emerging Viral Haemorrhagic Diseases Working Group (EVHDWG) has conducted a rapid risk assessment to guide in-country preparedness activities. Adetifa said, “Nigeria’s capacity to respond to the outbreak in the country and the fact that persons with MVD transmit the virus when they become symptomatic unlike for SARS-CoV-2 that causes COVID-19 that can also be transmitted by infected persons without symptoms” were taken into consideration. The head of the NCDC added that Nigeria now has the National Reference Laboratory in Abuja and the University of Lagos Teaching Hospital Laboratory Centre for Human and Zoonotic Virology laboratory facilities to conduct virus testing. If needed, diagnostic capacity can be expanded to other laboratories. In the event of a solitary imported case, Nigeria has the resources (human, technological, and lab) to identify and manage it quickly, he said. POLL According to Adetifa, the risk of importation may be further diminished because the situation in Ghana is currently under control, aggressive case discovery is ongoing, and surveillance has been increased in Togo and Benin. The NCDC boss further disclosed that “many of the contacts under follow-up in Ghana will soon exit the 21-day quarantine period and so far, there have been no secondary cases reported.” NCDC outlined recommendations and encouraged Nigerians to rigorously abide by them in order to stop the Marburg Virus Disease outbreak in the nation. According to NCDC, citizens should avoid non-essential travel to locations where the outbreak is reported for the moment; avoid direct contact with blood, saliva, vomit, urine, and other bodily fluids of people with suspected or confirmed Marburg virus disease; avoid animal reservoir (fruit bats), other sick animals. “In suspected and/or confirmed MVD cases, direct physical contact should be avoided by ensuring strict isolation, the use of protective gowns, masks, gloves, and safe disposal of needles, bedding, and other contaminated materials,” the agency advised. It further called for strict practice of infection control in the healthcare setting for all suspected patients. “Male survivors of Marburg virus disease should practice safer sexual practices and hygiene for 12 months from onset of symptoms or until their semen test negative twice for the virus. Infections have been recorded in health facilities and in healthcare workers while looking after patients with suspected or confirmed MVD,” the centre added. The Marburg virus causes a rare, highly infectious disease and severe haemorrhagic fever (MVD) in humans and non-human primates just like the Ebola virus, its closest relation and only other member of the Filoviridae family of viruses. NCDC said, “It is another example of a zoonosis such as Lassa fever…. The natural animal reservoir/host are fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus). Following the transmission from infected animals to humans, it spreads in humans through direct contact with the bodily fluids of infected people, and contaminated materials and surfaces. “The virus can enter the body through broken skin or mucous membranes in the eyes, nose, or mouth. The initial symptoms of the disease include sudden onset of fever, chills, headache, body aches which may be accompanied by a rash, most prominent on the chest, back, and stomach, nausea/vomiting, chest pain, sore throat, abdominal pain by the fifth day of illness. Increase in severity of the illness can be heralded by the appearance of severe watery diarrhoea, jaundice, inflammation of the pancreas, severe weight loss, bleeding from multiple areas, delirium, shock, liver failure, massive hemorrhaging, and multi-organ dysfunction and/ or failure. In fatal cases, death occurs often between eight and nine days after symptom onset. The case fatality rate for MVD is estimated to be 24 percent to 88 percent. The Marburg Virus Disease (MVD) is known to persist in the body – placenta, amniotic fluid, foetus of infected pregnant women, breast milk of women who were infected while breastfeeding, and semen – of persons who have recovered from MVD. “This is mostly due to poor adherence to infection prevention and control (IPC) measures. There is currently no treatment or vaccine for MVD, however, infected persons can benefit from supportive care and treatment of specific symptoms which improve the chances of survival. Early detection and treatment improve prognosis.”