According to Rudy Galetti, Manchester City are edging closer to signing Marc Cucurella from Brighton & Hove Albion, with both clubs engaging in advanced talks at the moment. The 23-year-old Spanish international is Pep Guardiola’s primary target in defence and seen as a replacement for Oleksandr Zincheko, who is expected to join Arsenal. Manchester City made headlines when they signed star striker Erling Haaland earlier in the window but have largely been quiet since. They also brought in Kalvin Phillips from Leeds United, but compared to other English heavyweights, the activity has been generally slow. Pep Guardiola seems to be specific regarding his targets, and after landing two crucial players, a third one could be on the cards. Brighton’s Marc Cucurella remains Manchester City’s priority defensive target for this window, although the Citizens and Brighton are yet to agree on a fee for the 23-year-old Spaniard. Brighton are open to cashing in on Cucurella, and they could be targetting a similar fee to what Arsenal paid for Ben White last summer. However, Manchester City are unwilling to go beyond £50 million for the Spanish international, although there’s plenty of optimism about the deal being done. Cucurella was impressive during his first season in England, as Brighton attained the highest-ever finish in their short Premier League history. The Spaniard’s ability to slot in as a left-back, left wing-back and central defender pleases Guardiola, who has been keen on bringing him to Manchester City. Manchester City have been a bit short at left-back, with Joao Cancelo playing as the preferred choice in the position last season. They have Oleksandr Zinchenko as an alternative, with the Ukrainian international playing regularly in the latter part of the campaign. But Zinchenko is expected to join Arsenal in the coming days, with Cucurella being considered his replacement. Zinchenko tends to offer plenty towards Guardiola’s attacking style of football. Cucurella will be expected to play a similar role, as the Manchester United manager is unlikely to field a back-three or use the Brighton star in midfield. The 23-year-old is expected to become Manchester City’s starting left-back next season. As per Rudy Galetti, Manchester City and Brighton are in advanced negotiations over a move for the Spanish international, with a deal likely to be closed in the coming days. The details of the potential fee remain undisclosed at the moment, but it is expected to be in the region of £50 million. POLL Cucurella is considered an ideal Guardiola signing, with his versatility the primary factor driving the pursuit. Manchester City will be signing a brilliant player who has shown his potential in the one season he has spent at Brighton.