LAGOS  – Coronation Asset Management has released a comprehensive report on the Mutual Funds industry in the country to cover the first five months of 2022. Many analysts are of the opinion that a decade of pension fund growth in Nigeria has prepared the ground for a boom in the country’s mutual fund sector as investments in carefully constructed higher performing risk-managed funds now outperform interest on bank deposits and even land. In 2020 alone, for example, assets under management in Nigeria’s Mutual Funds grew by 50 per cent – topping N1.6 trillion. Mutual funds are investment funds that pool money from many investors to purchase securities, like stocks, bonds, money market instruments, and other assets. Mutual funds are operated by professional money managers who seek to assemble the right mix of funds, balancing risk with growth according to investors’ risk appetite, growth needs and investment horizons. Since mutual funds are regulated and professionally managed financial service instruments, they provide a lot more security than unregulated instruments. Being assembled by qualified professionals, they are also simple to manage as all purchase and sale requirements are carried out by the fund managers. Analysts at Coronation Asset Bank said: “ With Nigeria’s mutual fund industry being only eighth the size of the country’s pension industry, there is a lot of room for growth. Certainly, in other markets around the world, the growth of successful pension fund industries led to the establishment of vibrant mutual fund markets. “In such a fast-growing market faced with such a large opportunity, it goes without saying that not all mutual funds are created equal. As with all investing, investors need to be confident that they are working with regulated professionals leveraging world-class research and risk management methodologies to build and operate transparent mutual funds delivering measurable returns. “To this end, Coronation Asset Management is on a mission to build a safe, accessible and transparent mutual fund industry in Nigeria that allows investors to understand, easily compare and then invest in – or sell out of – mutual funds, effortlessly and safely. Mutual funds are, after all, the easiest way for everyday working people to access quality risk-managed investments and earn secure, long-term returns”. -Advertisement- POLL Significantly, one year after the publication of its report ‘Comparing Mutual Funds – Apples & Oranges’, Coronation Asset Management returns to the subject of comparing the performance of Nigeria’s mutual funds with its latest report titled ‘Comparing Mutual Funds II – Apples & Oranges, and a Hand Grenade’. The report is a key investigation into the rapidly-growing N1.52 trillion mutual fund industry in Nigeria. This year, it takes a deep dive into the differences between the amortised accounting method, which most funds in Nigeria use, and the international mark-to-market accounting method, as applied to Fixed Income funds. “We find that the amortised accounting method has a fundamental flaw when it comes to dealing with interest rate fluctuations; so much so that we think it could lead to systemic risk in future. “The mark-to-market method of accounting for Fixed Income funds is not simply a matter of following Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS). Mark-to-market is by far the safest method of accounting for Fixed Income securities in a mutual fund, guaranteeing that fund managers only show a Unit Price (UP) to investors that reflect what can be realised in the market,” says Guy Czartoryski, Head of Research at Coronation Asset Management. According to the report, this year, and after a 10.6 per cent decline in total assets under management (AUM) during 2021, the mutual fund industry is growing again, with total AUM up 8.7 per cent in the first five months of the year to N1.52 trillion (US$3.64bn).