Sector 3 of the Joint Border Patrol Team (JBPT) has said that its operatives have smashed a human trafficking operation, rescuing three human cargo believed to have been spirited into the country from Burkina Faso. The team with its headquarters in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, said on Wednesday that the operation was part of the continued onslaught on unrepentant smugglers within JBPT’s Area of Responsibility (AoR) which is the North Central States. It also said that it intercepted other contrabands worth millions while effecting arrests to boot. “The three illegal immigrants (Teenagers between 16-18 years of Age) were arrested around the Babanna axis of the Sector coming from Benin, Edo State en route Burkina-Faso. “After thorough investigation, it was discovered that the teenagers were been trafficked by a syndicate to Burkina-Faso. The teenagers were handed over to Nigeria Immigration Service as one of the agencies in the sector saddled with such responsibilities,” said Sector 3 Commander, Olugboyega Peters. He also announced the seizure of a luxury Bus popularly called Macapolo belonging to All Express International along the Abuja-Lokoja highway conveying large bales of banned fabrics. “It’s a total of Forty-four Bales of acidic secondhand clothing and Sixteen sacks of fairly used infectious shoes with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of Three Million Six Hundred and Eighty Thousand Naira (3, 680,000). POLL He said that the successes were made possible by the reinvigoration of operations in its sector. He narrated that his sector, at different times and locations, intercepted and seized Three Thousand and Sixty-eight (3068) Kegs of 25 litres each of PMS totalling Seventy-Six Thousand Seven Hundred (76,700) litres in an attempt to smuggle them out of the country. ” It is difficult to imagine that despite the current fuel scarcity of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS) in the country, some unpatriotic Nigerians still attempted to smuggle this product out of the country through our border,” the sector Comptroller said.