….As Security Agencies promise maximum security for CMs LAGOS – The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brigadier-General Muhammad Kaku Fadah has warned the Corps Members that will be involved in election duties during the Osun State Gubernatorial election to strictly abide by the electoral laws. The DG, in a statement signed by Eddy Megwa, Director, Press and Public Relations, warned that anyone found wanting would be sanctioned accordingly. He stated this in Osogbo while addressing the Corps Members who have undergone training as Adhoc staff by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). General Fadah urged them to remain neutral and perform their election duties with diligence and as good ambassadors of the NYSC. “Your colleagues did in successfully in Ekiti and l believe you will also do us proud here in Osun State. “Avoid sharp practices, avoid taking gratifications, don’t take sides, play according to the rules of the game and be security conscious”, he said. General Fadah also visited security agencies in the state to canvass for security for the Corps Members on election duties. POLL At the Army Engineer Construction and Command in Ede, the DG commended the cordial relationship between NYSC and the military command. The Commander, ECC Ede, Brigadier-General Suleman applauded the Director General for finding time to check the Corps Members on election duties. “We will continue to partner with you to ensure the safety of all Corps during and after the election”, he said. Also at the State Police Headquarters in Osogbo, the Coordinating DIG for Osun Election, Mr . Johnson Babatunde Kokumo reiterated maximum security for the Corps Members. He commended the Management of the Scheme for mentoring Corps Members for national assignments. “Corps Members are our children and our priority. We will not relent in our efforts towards ensuring their safety”, he said. Similarly, the Osun State Director, Department of State Services, Mr. Bankole Alade, while hosting General Muhammad Fadah in his office in Osogbo assured of a stronger synergy with NYSC adding, “We will continue to do the needful to protect Corps Members during and after the elections including all the Corps lodges within the State”. In the same vein, the Deputy Controller General, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Mr Mungadi Dauda Danladi on behalf of the Controller General of NSCDC, described Corps Members as invaluable assets in the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in the country. He promised the readiness of the NSCDC for Corps Members’ safety across the state.