Abuja – The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu; the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and some governors on the platform of the party, will tomorrow storm Osogbo, the Osun State capital, to hold a mega rally for its governorship candidate, Sen. Ademola Nurudeen Adeleke. This is coming ahead of July 16 governorship election. Atiku’s running mate and governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa, will also be at mega rally in mandate- recovery quest. Ayu charged all stakeholders in Osun State, party faithful and residents to come out en mass to grace the mega rally, adding, “I charge every lover of democracy and good governance to come out and identify with the PDP candidate, Sen. Ademola. He is the face of positive change.” Ayu, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, expressed confidence that with the prevailing overwhelming support of the people, the PDP and its candidate, Sen. Adeleke, will emerge victorious in the Saturday, July 16, 2022 governorship election in Osun State. He also expressed satisfaction that the on-going consultations and efforts for the success of the PDP in the 2023 general elections are yielding very positive results. The national chairman therefore called on all members and teeming supporters of the party to remain united and focused on the PDP’s mission to Rescue, Redirect and Rebuild the nation from the misrule of the APC. Atiku, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, said that investment in education pays the best dividend than any other investment. Atiku made the assertion on Wednesday on the sidelines of the graduation ceremony of the Anglia Ruskin University (ARU) in Cambridge, United Kingdom. POLL The ARU Awards Board had on the 12th of November, 2021, confirmed the award of Master of Arts International Relations on Atiku Abubakar following the successful completion of his Master’s degree programme at the university. The graduation ceremony could not hold then because of the COVID-19 disruptions. According to the statement, the former vice president was not physically present at the graduation ceremony on Wednesday having collected his certificate earlier. The statement further said that Atiku was also not represented in line with the policy of the university. The statement read: “The PDP presidential candidate stayed away from the event in solidarity with Nigerian students (and their parents and wards) who have been at home for months with no end in sight to the protracted strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “In all honesty I could not mount the podium with other graduands to collect my certificate today. I had worked hard to complete my studies and was excitedly looking forward to donning the graduation robe and collecting my certificate. However, I am compelled to skip the event in solidarity with our students who through no fault of theirs are being degraded at home.” Atiku restated his position that the mind is a very terrible thing to waste, noting that there’s no return on investment that can surpass that on education. “Education is a game changer because it unlocks the sustainable ‘crude oil’ in the brain as against that in the bowels of the earth. “Education remains a priority to me. That explains why I invested in it and was prepared against all odds to walk this journey that has earned me a higher degree today,” he said. He pleaded with the Federal Government and ASUU to resolve all extant issues to pave the way for the strike to be called off so that students can return to school for their own good and to the benefit of our country.