Two former deputy governors and top political brass in Ekiti attended a crucial meeting organised by a political pressure group Bola Ahmed Tinubu Solidarity Vanguard(BATS-V). Chief Moses Alake, leader of the forum and  former deputy governor of Oyo State  as well as Surveyor Abiodun Aluko graced the meeting held at Royal Castle Hotel, Ado-Ekiti In his remark,  Chief Alake thanked the people of Ekiti for voting APC in the just contoured gubernatorial election but noted that the people still need orientation as there was a relatively low turnout of voters in the last election. “Ekiti really needs to join the movement and not be left behind as this is our turn Awa lokan” he enthused. “I, therefore, urge all Ekiti people to get their PVCs and vote Asiwaju massively just like they have done in the just concluded Ekiti elections” He concluded.. The global Chairman and Convener of the group  Ambassador. Dare Owotomobi in his goodwill message noted that members of the vanguard will not be neglected in the scheme of things because everybody is important. Owotomobi disclosed that the group has chapters in 36 states and has been making waves even before Asiwaju Tinubu threw his hat into the ring. POLL He noted that Ekiti State had not been friendly to pro-Tinubu groups prior to the conclusion of the  APC Presidential primaries. Surveyor Abiodun Aluko in his remark said ” it is a thing of joy to be associated with Asiwaju Tinubu and since the grassroots is where real voting takes place members are ready to mobilize massively for Asiwaju Tinubu. The global chairman also hinted the Ado- Ekiti of the group would be ready for launch soon. Owotomobi, therefore, urged members to commence grassroots sensitisation and mobilisation. Ambassador Owotomobi appreciated the Incumbent Governor and Governor-Elect for providing enabling security environment for the meeting. He also on youth mobilization and women mobilization coming soon in the state, also noting that state had down their inauguration, and Ekiti would soon join in the comity of the 36states as their inauguration comes up soon He also hinted that the group had the support of our stare leader, His Excellency, Niyi Adebayo, Mr Dele Alake, Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele,  Oluomo Segun Osinkolu,the E _ Eleven group, the Afenifere group and notable leaders numerous to mention He also said that Ekiti should be ready to be grateful to Asiwaju Tinubu for his efforts in sustaining and upholding democratic echoes in Ekiti, He finally said, anybody that gives you his child has gone beyond ordinary benefactor as He, Asiwaju is our in-law as he gave us his first Daughter to us as a wife and that Mrs Folasade Tinubu Ojo has been doing proud as the wife of Ekiti State and that we would reciprocate all his good gesture come February and this we would achieve by mobilizing Ekiti people irrespective of political affiliations for this task ahead which BATSV is ready to spearhead He was of the opinion that APC will do better in the presidential elections in Ekiti than what was obtainable in the election. PRO BAT Vanguard in Diaspora Chief Segun Ajibulu described Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as a human builder who is passionate about the development of the country. Hon. Ropo Ige, the State Chairman (BATSV), while encouraging the over 50 people that attended the programme said eminent personalities in the APC are solidly behind the vanguard and that even Asiwaju Tinubu is also with his blessings. “Men of substance are with us, Chieftain like Senator MOB, Minister Adeniyi Adebayo and a host from all the parts of the country will join us when we officially launch the movement for Asiwaju.” The attendance you are seeing here today is that sent invitation, by the time we start our movement it will shake the foundations of Ekiti” He, therefore, encouraged members to be steadfast and ready to work for BAT. Honourable Aderounmu Grace said Tinubu will not disappoint the people and that it is the joy of every well-meaning person to see that he emerges in the Presidential elections next year. “I have known BAT for years and I can assure you the country is safe with him,” she said. Elder Ayobioloja Kehinde and Chief Dayo Fakiade who were both youth leaders at the state and Southwest respectively promised that members will be called into full activeness soon and the thousands man march for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be done. Other speakers included the Southwest youth leader, Ayobioloja Kehinde, Ekiti state youth leader, Chief Dayo Fakiade Southwest zone, Hon. Mrs Ayo Olajide, and the pioneer Commissioner.