The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams has charged the Ondo state government under the leadership of Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and traditional rulers in the state as a matter of urgency to look into a way of promoting the cultural identity of the people of the state. In such that the state will be using cultural promotion as a tool for the socio-economic development of the state. Iba Adams stated this while delivering his speech on Thursday during the 2022 Okota Festival at his home town Arigidi-Akoko, Ondo state. “Okota Festival usually reflects the unique tradition of my people here in Arigidi- Akoko. Okota river goddess had always impacted the lives of the people positively. Her influence towards the progress and development of the town is noteworthy”. Aare Onakakanfo said in all the six southwest states, Ondo state has not been doing enough in terms of projecting the unique culture and tradition of its people, which is really affecting the state among the other states in the region. According to him, “I think it is very important for the Ondo state government to look into this as a way of promoting the cultural identity of the people of the state. “The traditional rulers in the state should also step up their roles as custodians of Yoruba culture and tradition. “The state government and the traditional institution need to do alot more in promoting the culture and the tradition of the people in order to improve the state economy and further enhance development in the state”. POLL Iba Adams explained that all over the world, there is an obvious difference between religion, culture and traditions and that any race or people that abandon their culture and tradition do so at their own peril. “For instance, indigenes and people of Akure, Owo and the Ikare still make tremendous progress in their socio-economic lives even better than my people here in Akoko because they identify with their own culture and traditions. “The reason for this is that those of us in Akoko land have, for a very long time, ignored our tradition and heritage, and we remain backward for this. So, I am using this opportunity to appeal to all our traditional rulers in Akoko land to rise to the occasion and join the train of prosperous people that promote and celebrate their deities and ancestors. “As the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land and a prominent son of Akoko land, I am ready to support any traditional ruler that is ready to promote the tradition and culture of his kingdom. “As custodians of Yoruba culture and tradition, it is the divine role and responsibility of all our traditional rulers to promote the cultural heritage of the respective towns and communities. “Prosperity, wealth and abundance, both social and economic fortunes are all spiritual in nature. They don’t come by accident. It is by promoting our culture and tradition that we can able to access spiritual fortunes and be liberated from poverty and misfortunes. “We are all migrants, irrespective of where we come from as Yoruba sons and daughters. And it is very important for us to fulfil our own part of the spiritual covenant that we had with the deities and ancestors of our respective towns and communities across the southwest. It is not too good that Akoko land is retrogressing and sadly too, there is no industry in the entire Akoko land. “In this time and age, economic progress and development largely depend on the amount of both capital and human resources that a community or town can boast of. “So, I am using this opportunity to appeal to our amiable governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN)to please look into this and extend his economic development policy programme to Akoko land, which has a history of being one of the prominent communities that is blessed with huge electoral value”.