LAGOS  – Startups need more than software developers to succeed; they need community managers, marketing, sales, finance and operations, creative writers . Current school curriculums do not understand the startup paradigm let alone producing ready-made talents for the emerging economic space. As African startups raise more money to build high scale solutions across the continent, they are creating more jobs than they can fill both in technical and non-technical positions. While many of schemes are minting software talents, very few programmes exist to prepare non-technical talents for roles in the emerging startup ecosystem. According to Uche Aniche, #StartupSouth coordinator, experience has shown that startups need more than software developers to succeed. “They need community managers, sales professionals, finance and accountants, operations, creative writers etc. Existing school curriculums do not understand the startup paradigm let alone produce ready-made talents for the emerging economic space,” he added. This is why, he said, #StartupSouth is introducing TLNTPlus, a talent accelerator programme. He said that TLNTPlus by #StartupSouth is a talent accelerator and a hands-on upskilling programme for smart young professionals interested in developing domain competency needed in the innovation ecosystem while honing their experience with #StartupSouth and other emerging startups teams in its network. -Advertisement- POLL According to Uche Aniche, #StartupSouth coordinator, TLNTPlus is a six-month commitment open to professionals who are interested in exploring amazing opportunities while contributing to the development of the innovation ecosystem in Nigeria. He said that selected participants would be grouped into teams chaperoned by highly experienced professionals, exposed to tasks designed to teach trendy hard/ soft skills – including discipline, self-discovery, dependability and how to be proactive He added that participants would primarily work in teams within #StartupSouth and/or within a qualifying startup or organization and their work is evaluated. He stated that the programme affords participants the opportunity to gain relevant in-demand skills valuable to their career path, adding that best performers may be recommended for full-time paid roles at partner startups/organizations at any point in the programme. He disclosed that categories available on the programme are administrative, finance, accounting, human resources, corporate communications, operations, projects, marketing and sales, marketing communications and digital marketing. Others, he said, include content development, community engagement and management, fees and remuneration. Aniche added that startups within the network are increasingly requesting highly skilled professionals from it, stating that with TLNTPlus, interested community members will be prepared to support startups in the network. He said the programme is suitable for recent graduates, entry to mid-level professionals interested in pursuing a career in the startup/technology space. According to him, successful candidates will be invited to a virtual interview with programme coordinators and application deadline is July 10 2022. Once accepted, he said participants would have the opportunity to go through highly personalized world-class training and mentoring while gaining experience working on real-time projects that solve practical problems.