Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum and Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State have joined other All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants to obtain their nomination and expression of interest forms ahead of the party’s primaries slated for May 31 and June 1. Sylva and Governor Ayade becomes the 25th and 26th aspirants to pick the party’s forms ahead of Tuesday’s deadline for the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms. The International Conference Centre, Abuja, was agog with activities as several aspirants vying for various electoral offices stormed the venue to obtain their forms at the last minute. -Advertisement- A group, Good People of Nigeria, said they obtained the forms on behalf of Sylva, a former governor of Bayelsa. Speaking in front of the NNPC Towers in Abuja, the leader of the group, Alhaji Mohammed Abu Abaji, said the group had been closely monitoring the works of the minister in controlling the petroleum resources of Nigeria and believes that he is the right person to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “That is why we bought these forms and called on him to come and contest in the APC primaries; I think it is one of the small things we can do for him. “For the period he has been the minister you can see that he has spent a lot of time in the Niger Delta to talk to his people. We believe that as a president a lot will happen for oil prospects for the development of Nigeria. We are the good people of Nigeria and it is a collective donation. Everybody you see here donated money for the fund. Sylva received the forms and lauded the group as he expressed shock that they could go to that extent to obtain the forms for him. POLL The minister, however, said he would not confirm his acceptance of the forms as he needs to consult widely before taking a decision. Daily Independent had earlier reported that the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, also picked his copy of the forms at the venue. Some political associates of the Senate President were at the ICC to obtain forms saying Nigeria needs a “Nigerian president” and not one given to ethnic tendencies. Leader of the group, Sam Nkire, told journalists that “We are not here on our own, we have his backing. Even though friends and brothers contributed to purchase this form for him, he has given us the go-ahead.”