Manchester City came back from two goals down for the first time under Pep Guardio­la to earn a point at West Ham that means victory over Aston Villa on the final day will see them crowned champions. City’s grip on the EPL title was looking distinctly shaky at the break as the Hammers led thanks to Jarrod Bowen’s well-taken double. But Jack Grealish struck for the visitors four minutes after the re-start and Vladmir Coufal headed Riyad Mahrez’s free-kick into his own net as City avoided defeat after com­ing back from two goals down in a top-flight game for the first time since 2012. -Advertisement- They even had a chance to win it five minutes from time but Lukasz Fabianski saved Mahrez’s penalty after Craig Dawson had fouled Gabriel Jesus. Guardiola looked devas­tated at that. But given the situation they found them­selves in at the break, with Liverpool potentially having the chance to catch them when they play on Tuesday, the final outcome was posi­tive for the visitors. It certainly was for West Ham, who have qualified for European football through their league position in succes­sive seasons for the first time in their history. It is a measure of the suc­cess Guardiola has had in this stadium that his first five visits all yielded victories – and a stag­gering total of 22 goals. Now City have drawn on three successive visits – losing on penalties in the Carabao Cup earlier this season. POLL In the week they signed Erling Haaland, they found it impossible to hold West Ham’s number nine, Michail Antonio, and were unsettled by Bowen’s direct running. Without Grealish’s volley from Rodri’s knock-down flick­ing off Craig Dawson’s leg and over Fabianski, they might have been in for a very fraught second half. As it was, they dominated possession and put the Ham­mers defence under so much pressure, it felt inevitable an equaliser would come. That Coufal provided it was unfortu­nate as the Czech did not have to dive at Mahrez’s free-kick, which Fabianksi seemed to have covered. Mahrez blew the oppor­tunity to avoid a nervy final day – but, 10 years after Sergio Aguero’s famous injury-time ti­tle winner, City fans do at least know that anything can hap­pen if events start to conspire against them again. West Ham’s Jarrod Bowen scores his second goal against Manchester City in the Pre­mier League Jarrod Bowen has scored 12 EPL goals this season, and has assisted another 12 This has been an excellent season for West Ham – with European qualification being welcomed by manager David Moyes, even if it ends up being the Europa Conference League. Bowen, a Premier League player of the year nominee, has been one of the stand-out stars. The former Hull man showed an impressive turn of pace to run on to Pablo Fornals’ hooked long pass, sprint round Ederson and finish from an acute angle. Bowen showed composure also when he ran on to Anto­nio’s through ball and found the net again. However, had he pulled a cross back rather than try to score from an impossibly nar­row angle shortly after Greal­ish had breathed new life into the game, West Ham might have got a rare home win over City. Antonio also fluffed his lines when Fernandinho’s woeful back-pass sent him through, chipping wide of Ederson and the City goal.