LAGOS – Dr Abdul-Lateef Olajide Adediran popularly called Jandor has pulled 679 votes out of the 709 accredited number of delegates to emerge the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State and win his closest and only rival, Vaughan David Kolawole, also called Dacova who garnered 20 votes, with 10 void votes recorded. The election which took place in Ikeja Lagos had Mr Emmanuel Ogidi as the electoral committee chairman. Adediran thanked Daviva and all the party leaders for their support. -Advertisement- In his speech before voting commenced, Adeniran said, “Don’t forget that all of us including the four contestants who were in the race until this afternoon are eminently qualified to be Governor of Lagos State and to emerge as the PDP candidate. I want to thank them for keeping the PDP before my arrival, including my elder brother Davova. “Our aspiration is to rescue Lagos and that is why we have decided to come together to speak with one voice. “I am fortunate to be the last man standing. I want to appeal to you delegates that I need the vote, not just for me but for the PDP. He added, “If you give me the ticket, it won’t be a ticket for just PDP, it will but a ticket for God entire Lagosians,” he said. Vaughan David Kolawole, also called Dacova congratulated Jandir and advised him to ensure that Lagos is changed, even as he promised to support him. POLL while speaking before voting commenced stated that his passion is to deliver Lagos, remove your children from the streets of Lagos, build roads, provide jobs and that Lagos children will no longer be Olu Omo boys. “I can see the energy here it is to take over Lagos and if anyone of us emerges, I will support him. “I am not in the contest because of money, I am in the contest because I want to be a hero. I have been a hero in the fashion and designing business and I want to repeat it. It will be recalled that just before voting commenced, four aspirants, Dr Ade Dosunmu, Engr. Deji Doherty, Jimi Kamal and Rhodes Gbadebo withdrew from the race.