P/HARCOURT – The level of insecurity in the Gulf of Guinea and other parts of Nigeria’s coastal line has become a source of great concern to President Muham­madu Buhari in recent times. Buhari on Monday lament­ed that insecurity and mari­time crimes are threatening the economic opportunities within the Gulf of Guinea, advising that the situation needs collaborative efforts, among stakeholders. The president expressed his regret on this sad devel­opment at the International Maritime Conference held in Onne, Rivers State, as part of the 66th anniversary of the Nigerian Navy with the theme, ‘Optimising Collabo­ration for Maritime Security and Socio-Economic Develop­ment in Africa’. -Advertisement- Represented at the event by the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi, President Buhari described the theme of the conference as apt and timely, as it would fashion out the best way for­ward for collaboration among the various security agencies to stamp out or drastically re­duce maritime crime. President Buhari also com­mended the efforts of the Ni­gerian Navy which he said has brought about decline in sea piracy and ultimate­ly delisting of Nigeria from the International Maritime Bureau of piracy list since March 2022. “The Nigerian Navy is the pertinent agency in the marine sector that has the responsibility in the consti­tution to check threats in the maritime sector. These threats have become transna­tional and beyond the scope and capability of one nation to deal with. “The situation therefore calls for international collab­oration and this conference therefore symbolises strate­gic collaborative initiative be­tween the Nigerian Navy and other international maritime stakeholders, to mitigate the increasing vulnerabilities in African waters especially in the Gulf of Guinea. “This region, we all know is very rich and endowed with living and non-living resourc­es and therefore the economic opportunities therein as well as the strategic problems can­not be overemphasised. POLL “These prospects are how­ever threatened by the rising insecurity and maritime crimes that impaired the development of the Gulf of Guinea states. “It’s therefore apt to posit that any collaborative initia­tive by the Nigerian Navy to build partnership across the Gulf of Guinea is in the right direction, to optimise credible capacity that will guarantee our collective maritime de­fence. “To this end, we owe a strong reason to support the Nigerian Navy and I make bold to commend the Nige­rian Navy for their giant strides in maritime security operations, which resulted to several arrests of economic saboteurs, perpetrators of illegal bunkering, smug­glers, pipeline vandals, and other miscreants in the fight against illegality in the Gulf of Guinea maritime domain.” Earlier, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, said that collabora­tion was imperative as mar­itime crimes within the Gulf of Guinea have become trans­national and are beyond the scope and combat capability of one nation. “Most disturbing is that most of the criminal activi­ties are directed at economic life of both littoral and land­locked states. “The present situation calls for increasing interna­tional collaboration and in­telligence cooperation within states. “Let me at this juncture ac­knowledge several past mis­sions at continental levels of operation across regions and collaboration towards inte­gration of organic national probability aimed at achiev­ing holistic and sustainable maritime security architec­ture for the country.”