LAGOS  – The National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), has begun discussions with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on how to achieve affordable automotive purchase financing for Nigerians. Mr. Jelani Aliyu, the Director General of NADDC stated this while making a presentation at the 9th Annual Transport Lecture, organised by Transport Day Newspapers, with the theme: ‘Nigeria’s Transportation For Development; Sectoral Achievements, Prospects and Challenges,’ held in Abuja, recently. Aliyu explained that the council earlier in the week, held a meeting with the CBN to discuss the issue and how to resolve the challenges associated with auto financing in the country. -Advertisement- “We want to work out a solution that would enable Nigerians buy new vehicles and pay over a period of six years,” he said. The NADDC boss said the move was part of the agency’s efforts geared towards promoting and enhancing value addition in the transport cum automotive sector of the economy by creating a conducive business climate to further enhance investment inflow and industrialisation. Aliyu said NADDC was also shifting attention to carbonless transport system in Nigeria in a bid to develop and promote advanced transport technology in the automotive industry. He maintained that vehicle electrification was inevitable at this time, insisting that it is the future of automotive industry globally. “There is no gainsaying the fact that poor maintenance culture of vehicles in the transport sector contributes immensely to environmental pollution. The use of EVs that have advanced technology will not only curb these excesses but will also lead to more productivity in the industry. POLL “Currently, one of our top focus areas is scaling up production of applicable electric vehicles locally, to enable Nigeria meet its target for the Paris Accord and 2060 net zero commitment, both on reducing harmful gas emissions from vehicles” he said. He further stated NADDC recently set up a Technical Committee on Electric Vehicle Development Plan aimed at drawing up a comprehensive development plan for vehicle electrification in Nigeria. The committee, he posited would lead to the realisation of full scale local production of multiple brands of applicable EVs that would be in tune with the economic structure of the country and would be supported by establishing effective ecosystem of charging infrastructure. According to the NADDC boss, this plan would also ensure that Made-in-Nigeria EVs are of world standards and compete favourably in the global market. “As a pilot scheme project, the NADDC has established 100 per cent Solar Powered EV Charging Stations at Usman Danfodio University Sokoto, University of Lagos and University of Nigeria Nsukka and also discussing with other stakeholders for collaboration in establishing more charging infrastructure all over the country.