It was a case of sweet victory for Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, the incumbent deputy governor of Kano state who in the wee hours of Friday clinched the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Primary Election. Gawuna who had before now secured the approval of his principal, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje as a successor, pulled a landslide victory over his lone opponent, Sha’aban Ibrahim Sharada at the Sani Abacha Sports Complex, Kofar Mata, Kano. Senator Tijjani Yahaya Kaura, the Chairman, Kano Gubernatorial Primary Election Committee said Gawuna polled 2,289 votes while the other aspirant Sha’aban garnered 30 votes. -Advertisement- Yahaya Kaura explained that the total number of delegates accredited for the exercise was 2,420, the total votes cast was 2,339 while the invalid votes totalled 20. In his words: “I Sen.Tijjani Yahaya Kaura, Chairman of Kano APC Governorship Primary Election Committee, on behalf of the National working committee of our party hereby announced that result for this election have been collated and counted accordingly. I hereby certified that Dr.Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna having scored the highest number of votes is hereby declared the winner.” “He is, therefore, the standard flag bearer of the APC in the Gubernatorial election that will take place in 2023 in Kano State he said”. In his remarks the APC Gubernatorial Candidate Dr.Nasiru Gawuna thanked Allah for the victory, Consequently, he appreciated the support of Governor Ganduje, the party leaders and delegates while appealing to all party members to join hands and work hard towards the success and victory of the APC during the general elections. POLL Gawuna similarly commended stakeholders for conducting themselves in an orderly and peaceful manner during the primary election. On his part, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje commended the election committee for a thorough and transparent exercise. The primary election was supervised by the representatives of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the Police and the Department of State Security.