AKURE – Ondo State government on Thursday disclosed that its agric programmes were targeted at youths to attract them to agribusinesses and stem the rate of ritual killings in the state. Pastor Akin Olotu, Senior Special Assistant(Agric and Agricbusiness) to Governnor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu disclosed this in Akure when the executives of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ),Ondo State Council, paid him a courtesy visit. He disclosed that the state government has been going through religious organizations to appeal to youths to come and register with his office for agric programmes including fish farming. -Advertisement- “I have met with PFN leadership in the state, I want us to pay attention to ritual killings in the state. We may not know the gravity of what is going on now untill the next five years,” Olotu said. The SSA also revealed that the state government invested much into oil palm growing and production in Okitipupa area of the state which was capable of ranking the state as the highest producer of the produce. He added that with the rate of investment in agric and other interventions, the internally generated revenue of the state would appreciate substantially before long. Appreciating the role of the media in nation’s development, Olotu said journalists were strategic partners in governance and any government that did not have a good media relationship would not be loved by the public. He commended all journalists in the state on the way they carried out their duties, saying “it is good to appreciate others, when I heard about election of NUJ that they have had another set of executive and I say that we must appreciate this people. POLL “You journalists deserve appreciation for the job you’re doing. “Any government with good media relationship, you will discover that the people of the state will have love for that administration.” The Chairman of the State NUJ Council, Prince Leke Adegbite, appreciated the SSA for his efforts to revamping the Agribusiness sector of the state economy. He expressed happiness in Olotu’s appreciation of journalists’ contributions to ensuring peace and unity in the state and the country at large. Adegbite, therefore, assured the union would not relent in its efforts towards curbing issues of fake news and fake journalists in the state and the country at large.