Apostle Success Kanayo Uchime, President of Kingdom Missions Outreach, is a journalist and international missionary. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Dr. Uchimee discussed his role as a missionary and the impact of missions to the spread of the gospel. Excerpt: Could you briefly tell the readers about you? I am Success Kanayo Uchime, an apostle, and a missionary-journalist. I am from Anambra State and married with three children. I and my entire family are involved in the mission work. Our mission base is here in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Nigeria. -Advertisement- How was your call to ministry? I was called in 1991 into missions while worshipping in the Household of God, Ikeja, Lagos. I told my pastor then, Rev. Chris Okotie. But, he said the church could not work with me hence they do not have plans to be involved in mission. So, after getting married in 1993, I and my wife left the church to fulfill our vision. We first worked as pioneer missionaries among the Ejila-Awori people in Ado-Odo/ Ota LGA, Ogun State. It was from there we ventured into foreign missions in faraway Philippines in South East Asia in 2007. We later retired back to Nigeria some few years back and have continued with our home missions, and are now based in Ebonyi State. Why do you choose to be a missionary instead of a church pastor or overseer? It all has to do with calling. It is better to be where God wants you to be. Anything short of that is disobedience. I once tried pastoring in the city at a time, but it didn’t just work out; it was frustration everywhere. There’s glamour in being a pastor or general overseer, but not so as a missionary, more so, when you’re involved in rural missions like us. But, despite that, one feels fulfilled and accomplished doing what God assigned one to do. He has never disappointed us for once. Though there is no glamour in missionary work, but I feel contented doing it. It’s an obscure type of ministry as people don’t get know your name as such, but God knows and recognises what one does in the Kingdom. What is the vision and mission of Kingdom Missions Outreach? POLL Our vision, just like any other mission agency, is to enthrone Christ where His presence is not felt. We’re rural missionaries and as such, we do all in our disposal to ensure that rural dwellers hear the word of God and experience his loving kindness just as people in the cities. We also work among migrants from the North who are settled here in South East. It has been a challenging work, and our Master Commissioner, Jesus Christ, has been helping us overcome those challenges. Could you tell us your personal experiences in missionary work in Nigeria? If I start to retell our experiences as field missionaries, the pages of your newspaper will not contain it. But all I’ve to tell you is that we’ve seen both good and ugly experiences. But, in all we give God all the glory. We’ve seen instances where it looked like we’ll go no further anymore, but God usually intervenes and see us through. God helped us to train all our children even at post-graduate levels with just little income. It could only be God. One remarkable and ugly experience we encountered is losing our beloved daughter, Nkeoma, in faraway Philippines in 2013. She was in her final year in the university then. It was a turning point in our missionary work. We least expected it to happen, but we overcame it and marched on. One other ugly experience was when our ship nearly capsized at the Pacific Ocean while returning from a mission trip in one of the provinces in the Philippines. For over one hour, the ship struggled to remain afloat. To God be the glory, at the end, we were delivered from the hands of death. What are some of your unique experiences in foreign missions? One unique experience was working among the poorest of the poor in the Philippines, the Badjao tribal people. They are called the gypsies as they are nomads who usually roam around sea shores. In fact, tracking them down was an unthinkable thing. Reaching out to them was the major reason we relocated to Dumaguete City in Negros Oriental from Cebu Island. We held fellowship with them at sea ports. One difficult aspect of it that the set you meet this week may not be the ones you meet when next you visit. So working among them was very challenging to say the least. Funding was another major challenge we experienced while on foreign mission work. Receiving fund from home was unthinkable as those at home usually placed demand on us to send fund home, while our respondents over there looked up to you for fund. So, there, we were caught in the web. But, in all God usually provided as trusted Him for provision. What areas of missions are you involved in now? The missionary enterprise is holistic. It is all involved. We don’t have specialisation. We work as church planters, medical missionaries and even missionary teachers. We are planting churches now here in Ebonyi State. I also work as missionary journalist because of my training as a journalist. Again, we run a school of missions, World Missionary Training Institute (WMTI), here in Abakaliki. So, I also work as a missionary teacher. With the number of churches in the country now, will you say that missionaries are still needed in the country? At all times, missionaries are needed. Some argue that the era of missions has come and gone with the enormous work done by the early missionaries. But, we say no! The church gave birth to missions and missions need to be sustained by the church. The strategy and approach may differ from that of people of old, but that doesn’t mean that the work of missionaries is no more needed. This is the era of modern missions. That’s why you see so many mission agencies/boards springing up here and there. Most churches do not see the urgent need to get involved with rural mission work, especially cross cultural work and such mission agencies fill in the gap. So, where the churches can’t go, mission agencies will get there. That’s the beauty of it all. What roles would you say the missionaries play in church growth and expansion? For sure, church growth is predicated upon the level of missionary activities. When missionaries do their work, church growth occurs. That is, when we talk of growth in terms of numerical growth. Even in spiritual growth, missionaries are also needed to sensitise and awaken dying churches. We’ve seen a whole lot of transformation happening in mission fields both in urban and rural missions as a result of the activities of missionaries. We’ve seen unprecedented revivals taking place in nations which can be attributed to the underground work of some missionaries. How has insecurity and terrorism affected mission works in Nigeria? Just like every other area of our society, insecurity hinders or slows down missionary activities. Missionaries are no ‘super humans’ that never dies or get wounded when there is unrest or insecurity. There have been cases of missionaries being kidnapped for ransom or killed in the cause of their work. That is why we keep praying for peace and normalcy, especially in the terror-turn communities. This will enable missionaries and other Christian workers carry out their activities unhindered. As a missionary of repute, what advice would you offer to Christians and church leaders in Nigeria? Any church that does not have easy access to the mission fields on how to reach them with the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, cannot be said to be a true New Testament church. Therefore, the need for churches and their leaders to get involved in organised missions. There should be no procrastination as we are approaching the end times. Furthermore, Christians need to extend support to missionaries who are not part of their congregation. More than that churches need to adopt missionaries, especially those working in very remote regions of the world for sponsorship. Do you intend to get involved in foreign missions again? Yes, of course! One is not done yet with foreign missions. We just retired back home just for a moment. We came home to re-strategise and get back again. Our third missionary journey to Asia is still in focus. It’s a vision we are looking up to God to help us accomplish. This might see us going back to the Philippines and from there to other needy parts of Asia. In missionary circle, Asia is known to be a needy region, being a major part of what is called today the 10/40 Window nations of the world. Though a chunk of African nations, especially in the North are part of this Window, but almost the entire Asia is found there. They are regions with the lowest level of gospel presence and highest persecution of Christians. They also have the highest percentage of other world religions. The nations there are regarded as ‘closed’ nations when it comes to gospel spread. So, we are getting back. That is why we are trusting God for sponsors; those Christian philanthropists whom God will use to finance our trip to foreign missions. God did it before, and we are hopeful that He will do it again.