Uneasy calm is the best description of the unfolding political scenario within the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Niger State as key stakeholders including aspirants accuse the chairman, Alhaji Haliru Zakari Jikantoro of championing an agenda that is threatening the very foundation of the party in the state. The ill feelings among the ranks of the party against the party leadership in Niger state, our correspondent learnt is centred on the alleged doctoring of the delegates’ list a few days to party primaries to elect candidates that will fly the APC flag in the 2023 general election. Alteration of the list which has unsettled almost all the aspirants and party stakeholders across the state who are now threatening for a total showdown with the party if the list of delegates turned out to be different from the list earlier submitted to the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC). Changing the delegate list, according to sources close to some of the aspirants will not only affect chances of the party in the Governorship but the Senatorial, House of Representatives and even State Houses of Assembly delegates lists. Worst hit in the level of manipulations by the Haliru Jikantoro led APC in Niger state, the source further explained is the delegates list for the Senatorial and House of Representatives delegates list from Niger-North (zone C). Some of the aspirants had told our correspondent about unfolding political manipulations of by the current APC leadership in the state, which they have also vowed to resist what they termed, ‘desperate moves by Jikantoro and the Governor to impose candidates on the people. Also another party stakeholder from Niger-North Senatorial District who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity said he is aware about sinister motives to change the delegates list from some Local Government Areas including; Agwara, Rijau and Kontagora where the Governor hails from. According to o him, “They are seriously tampering with the delegates list because the Governor is interested and desperate to pick the Senate seat from the zone, that is why all the manipulations because he knows that people will not vote for him in the normal clear contest”. “You remember that the party Chairman, Alhaji Haliru Zakari Jikantoro once declared in a trending video that he is in full support of the Governor’s Senatorial ambition, so we should expect something like this because he knows that Governor Bello is not popular in the zone and cannot defeat the incumbent Senator, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi in a free and fair election”. “As I speak to you now, the Governor has not stepped anywhere in the zone to campaign ahead of the delegates’ election but wants the party Chairman to impose him on the people. It will not work because we are watching and will resist any attempt force him on us”. “Delegates from zone C cannot afford to have a diasporan Senator in 2023, therefore if the party succeeds in manipulating the process that will bring about imposing Governor Bello on the people as the APC candidate that will be the end of the party in the zone because the people will wait for them in the general election”. The source further hinted that “Their power will only stop at the party level but cannot withstand the general election because the people will reply them fire-for-fire with whatever they are coming with because that is when the people will also exercise their powers with their votes”. “Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello I know cannot win under a free and fair contest against the incumbent Senator representing the zone”, the source said as he recalled strong suspicion that trailing the trending video and which has continued to generate concerns among party stakeholders in the state.