Chief Modestus Umenzekwe, Onwa Achina, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is a board member, Federal Housing Authority (FHA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he examined some of the achievements of the current administration, especially in the area of infrastructure. Excerpt: As a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and board member, the Federal Housing Authority (FHA), do you think the Federal Government has provided enough road and housing infrastructure in the country so far? The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing which duties include provision of adequate and affordable housing via home ownership and rental scheme; planning, designing, construction, rehabilitation of highways; monitoring and maintenance of federal roads and bridges nationwide, has since 2015, carried out signature projects that have given the present administration of Muhammadu Buhari a reason to be prized by Nigerians. -Advertisement- Dotted across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja are signposts and landmark presence of the Federal Government, courtesy of the ministry. The works and housing ministry keeps working even at a time when some other ministries have gone to sleep due to electioneering activities. The political activities have really taken over governance as politicians jostle to be nominated for various position, how come the Housing sector is relatively stable? As preparations are getting hotter for the primaries by the various political parties across the nation to select, chose or vote those who will eventually emerge as flagbearers in the 2023 general elections, it is visibly clear that many ministries, regrettably, have been abandoned to their fate, creating big vacuum as their principals have joined the race for the presidency or governorship as the case may be. The distractions of course are obvious and expected. However, the same cannot be said to be the case of the Ministry of Works and Housing, ably headed by the workaholic Hon. Minister, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN), for while other ministers have abandoned their offices, it is obviously discernable that the gentle giant has continued to work and has left no stone unturned in his effort to propel his ministry to an enviable height for the realisation of the country’s infrastructural growth agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari. Seven years down the line, the comprehensive and burgeoning infrastructural achievement of the present administration is tantamount to a presentation of the scorecard of the Ministry of Works and Housing under Mr Fashola. I stand to be corrected and I say if anyone is giving kudos to the president for infrastructural development, it is also an indirect commendation of the Minister of Works for a job well done, delivering on his mandate over these seven years, as new road and housing projects have been initiated and completed, and old ones concluded as well. The achievements recorded by this administration manifestly emanated from the numerous roads and housing projects of the ministry of works and housing. POLL Are you saying this administration is touching people’s lives through housing and road infrastructure? The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has achieved more on infrastructure development for the country than any other administration in recent times. While in Kano recently during the inspection of the ongoing ‘dualisation’ of the Kano-Katsina road phases I and II in Kano and Kaduna States, Fashola, said, “As you build efficiency, you are building prosperity. Even though the president cannot reach physically everyone individually, he is having a handshake with the people through infrastructural development.” We feel government presence through the infrastructure the government provided for us, housing, roads, rails, schools, hospitals, among others. Also at a town hall meeting organised in Abuja by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohamed, Mr Fashola said that the government through the Ministry of Works and Housing, is currently handling 1,019 roads and bridge projects nationwide and that within 18 days, towards the end of last year (2021), it commissioned 941 kilometers of roads connecting 10 states across five geo-political zones which are impacting positively on the lives of the people in many more ways. Where are these roads that have been done? The roads that were commissioned include the Kebbi-Sokoto-Kontagora-Jega-Yawuri Road in Sokoto and Kebbi States; Shuarin-Azare Road in Jigawa and Bauchi states; Azare – Potiskum Road in Bauchi and Yobe States; Vandeikya – Obudu Road in Benue and Cross River States and Nnewe – Oduma Road in Enugu and Ebonyi States. There are also the joint border bridge in Mfum, Cross River State, which is a major international link to Cameroon; Ikom Bridge, now a gateway to the northern part of the country through Katsina-Ala in Benue State had all been completed by the Federal government. The Bonny-Bodo project construction which has four major bridges and eight minor ones are already in an advanced stage of completion. The project is one of the major projects which had defied execution by past administrations but the Buhari administration has tackled and is making significant progress. Other such difficult projects include the Second Niger Bridge in Anambra and Delta States, the Abuja – Kaduna – Zaria- Kano Road, the Apapa – Oworonsoki Road and the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Other infrastructure projects across the country include ongoing tertiary institutions internal roads rehabilitation, construction of new federal secretariats in six states and rehabilitation of 24 Secretariats across the country and construction of housing estates under the National Housing Programme in 34 states. Another milestone is the East- West road project. Fashola received the East-West road construction with open arms. It was on Wednesday, March 30, 2022, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio handed over the project back to the Minister of Works and Housing. The road is a 328 kilometre road that starts from Effurun in Delta State and transverses the Niger Delta, Rivers State and ends up in Oron in Akwa-Ibom State, while Section 5 of the road is from Oron to Calabar in Cross River State. Abubakar Malami attesting to the work of the ministry on December 6, 2021, at the completion and handing over of rehabilitation of Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Kontagora-Makera Road, Phase 1 and 11, Sokoto and Kebbi, said “This road has been built to the highest of design and workmanship and if well used and not abused, it should last for the design service life.” Do you think the SUKUK Fund has helped the government to achieve some of its road infrastructure feats? The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing in February this year received a symbolic cheque of N210billion of SUKUK funding for the execution of critical road projects across the country, two other ministries benefited from a total of N250 billion 2021 SUKUK. While the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing received N210 billion, the Ministry of Federal Capital Territory received N29 billion and the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs received N10 billion. Looking at the ratio, you can see the great importance the government attaches to the ministry. The SUKUK, which is a form of Public Private Partnership (PPP) was among the funding options adopted by the Federal Government under President Buhari to fund the construction of critical roads in Nigeria. It will interest you that at the presentation ceremony of the N250 billion Federal Government 2021 SUKUK cheque to the three beneficiary ministries, the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, gave an account on how his ministry spent the previous SUKUK funds given to the ministry. According to him the first SUKUK funds of N100 billion, released in 2017, 25 roads, covering 482 kilometres length were delivered; the second SUKUK of 2018 had 28 roads covering 643 kilometres length delivered, while the third SUKUK funds of N162 billion covered 44 highway and bridge projects with the total length of 757 kilometres covered across the nation. He went further to explain that SUKUK financing has enhanced completion of some priority road and bridge projects across the country which includes: The completion of 296 KM Sokoto-Tambuwal-Jega-Yawuri in Sokoto and Kebbi States, completion of 142 KM Section II (Shuwarin – Azare) of Kano-Maiduguri road, completion of 106 KM Section III (Azare- Potiskum) of the Kano-Maiduguri road and the completion of 1.2 kilometer/360m length Ikom Bridge. With the SUKUK Bond it has become easy for the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, to do what he knows how to do best. Today, 44 federal roads spread across the six geo-political zones are being financed under this SUKUK road project: North Central having eight, North East, eight, North West, seven, South West, six, South East, five and South-South, having 10 roads each, with the breakdown of the financial implication as follows: North Central N26.5bn, North East N30.5bn, North West N26.5bn, Southeast N26bn, South-South N26bn, and South West N27.05bn Other achievements of the ministry in the past seven years include Sections 1 to 4 of the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway, Construction of Ihiala-Orlu Road in Isseke Town-Amafuo-Ulli with Spur (Ihiala-Orlu-Umuduru Section) in Anambra State, Rehabilitation of Oba-Nnewi-Okigwe Road Route Section II: Anambra/Imo States Border-Ibinta-Okigwe Road; Construction of Oseakwa Bridge in Anambra State; Rehabilitation of Old Enugu – Port-Harcourt Road (Agbogugu-Abia Border Spur to Mmaku); Rehabilitation of Nsukka-Obollo-Ikem-Ehamufu-Nkalagu Road in Enugu State; Rehabilitation of Owerri-Umuahia Road Sections I, II & III Imo/Abia States; Rehabilitation of Bende – Arochukwu – Ohafia Road Section I in Abia State; Rehabilitation of Abakaliki-Afikpo Road Sections I and II in Ebonyi State, among others. There is the completion and commissioning in 2018 of the Zik Mausoleum in Awka, Anambra State, 22 years after construction started. Of course Calabar, Rivers, and Onne Ports have witnessed significant infrastructure upgrades and fiscal incentives to promote their attractiveness. An LPG tanker berthed in the Eastern Ports (Rivers Port) for the first time ever in October 2019. That year, Onne Port also received its first container ship in 12 years, while Calabar Port received its first container vessels in 11 years. The Concession of Onitsha Inland River Port is now in its final stages. If the government of APC government has indeed achieved this much, how come there is complaint across the land? The economic and social significance of infrastructure to the people is uncountable, let me tell you what Fashola always say, “When contractors get money they pay their own suppliers like those who supply asphalt, crush stones, sand and others, thereby redistributing the wealth of the nation around the economy and creating employment in the process.” He also said a lot of jobs have been created for suppliers of sand and building materials, artisans, labourers, farmers and even food vendors who make their daily earnings from the construction sites.