MAKURDI – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue state has adopted direct primaries as a mode of electing candidates for the 2023 general elections. The decision to adopt direct primaries was reached at a stakeholders meeting held at City Bay, Makurdi on Sunday, which had in attendance 8 out of the 12 governorship aspirants of the party. During the meeting, representatives from all the three senatorial districts in the state had, in turn, acceded to the mode of direct primaries for the party primaries to be held this week. -Advertisement- The ratification was followed by the eight governorship aspirants as well as all the aspirants for the national and state assembly seats. Shortly after a voice vote by stakeholders who ratified the process, the state chairman of the party, Comrade Austin Agada noted that the party deemed it fit to adopt direct primaries for its elections in order to make the process transparent. He also stated that the decision will also put paid to legal tussles that may deny the party from fielding candidates for the 2023 general election. While he also said the direct primaries option was decided upon for the best interest of the party to avoid issues that may lead to crisis, he argued that the mode of primaries would allow for internal democracy in the party. He therefore declared that “The mode of elections for party candidates during the primaries shall be by direct primaries.” POLL Earlier, the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs and leader of the party in the state, Senator George Akume, said he has decided to stay aloof and allow the party pick candidates of their choice for the 2023 elections. According, to him, “I have made mistakes by interfering in the process of choosing candidates in our dear party, but I will never do it anymore. “This time around you will decide who emerges as candidates in APC, the choices are yours. Shine your eyes, on who will be your candidate. “Incidentally all the aspirants are very good, and well qualified to lead in whatever positions they are contesting. Nigeria needs Benue and Benue needs Nigeria and we have to make the right choices. “We have put our house together, it’s a spirit of the APC; it is not a do or die affair. The party have great minds and great people; together we are stronger”, he declared.