Telecom operators in the country may continue to face tougher realities in their operations, as various measures are being introduced by the Federal Government and other related agencies to generate revenues from the service providers. In spite of the telecom sector’s rising contribution to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over the years, some regulations and oversight activities of the government have been stifling the financial fortunes of the operators. A case in point is the setting up of a Joint Committee of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) senior and management staff towards the implementation of inter- agency strategies for enhancing national revenues in the telecommunications sector. -Advertisement- The decision to set up the committee was one of the major outcomes of the meeting between FIRS and the NCC on March 8, 2022, organised at the instance of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami, to discuss the request by FIRS for data and documents from the telecoms industry for enhancing national revenues from the sector. The activities of NCC and the FIRS are acknowledged as pivotal to the achievement of sustainable revenue and growth projections of the Federal Government. In this regard, the telecoms sector has sustained a relatively high contribution to GDP over the years – ending the fourth quarter of 2021 at 12.6 percent. Besides, FIRS recently acknowledged that some telecoms licensees contribute significant high percentage of total national tax revenue. It is expected that the Joint Committee will enable both organisations to further optimise revenues for the Federal Government from the telecoms, digital economy and adjacent sectors of the economy. POLL Speaking on the development, NCC’s Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management, Adeleke Adewolu, stated that the terms of reference (ToR) of the committee include: review the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the NCC and FIRS on June 9, 2020; and carry out inter-agency interaction on the implementation of NCC’s Revenue Assurance System (RAS), to ensure that it incorporates the needs of FIRS to the extent that RAS can remain the sole interface with telecom service providers’ networks vis-à-vis the tax authority’s information needs from the telecoms sector. Over the years, governments across the country have always seen the telecoms sector as a veritable source to raise their internally generated revenue (IGR), and had always imposed multiple taxes on telecoms operations, a situation that has been described by operators as a cog in the wheel of progress for the telecoms industry. Early this year, the Federal Government announced that it is targeting N1.2 trillion revenue from telecommunications operators in the next 10 years. To meet this target, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) authorised NCC to operate the Revenue Assurance Solution (RAS) for 10 years and granted the regulating agency the approval to operate RAS platform after it received the certificate of the Full Business Case (FBC) from the ICRC. The RAS was designed by NCC and the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMCDE) with the aim of improving “the collation and collection of annual operating levy (AOL) from network operators”. The RAS which is to span a 10-year period, is expected to increase the revenue accruals from AOL to the tune of N1.21 trillion within the period. This month, the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) disclosed that the rising cost of operation, especially in the continuous increase in diesel price in the country prompted its request for an increment in the cost of services offered by its members. The request, which was made to the NCC by ALTON, if granted, will lead to about a 40% increase in the cost of calls, data, and SMS. According to ALTON Chairman, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, “Given the state of the economy and the circa 40% increase in the cost of doing business, we wish to request for an interim administrative review of the mobile (voice) termination rate for voice, administrative data floor price, and cost of SMS as reflected in extant instruments. “With respect to voice and SMS cost, ALTON respectfully requests the commission to consider a mark-up approach to address the upward price adjustment desirable for the industry. “For data services, we wish to request that the commission implements the recommendations in the August 2020 KPMG report on the determination of cost-based pricing for wholesale and retail broadband service in Nigeria.” While the telcos are contending with the industry’s myriad challenges, the Federal Government came up with the policy to inject a new tax on phone calls in the country, soon. The new telecom tax which is coming in the equivalent of a minimum of one kobo per second for phone calls, according to the government, is meant to boost sources of funds required to finance free healthcare for the vulnerable group in Nigeria. In the face of the frustration being faced by the telcos, NCC dismissed the request by telecom companies to increase calls, data and SMS tariffs by 40 percent. While acknowledging that the operators might have a justifiable reason for the request, the commission said there would not be any cost review in the telecom sector until empirical studies are conducted to ascertain if increments are necessary.