LAGOS – Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State and a presidential hopeful on the platform of the Peoples  Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the unproductive state of the country is responsible for the crisis it is facing. Obi who was in Lagos on Wednesday to meet with delegates to the forthcoming convention of the party noted that Nigeria is passing through a very difficult time, stressing that the cost of servicing debt in Nigeria is too high. He said, “Nigeria is a consuming nation. It has a sharing formula but no producing formular. The young and old people want to be given free money. -Advertisement- “My job is to move Nigeria from consumption to production. A country of 200 million people borrow more money than the revenue they generate. “When I was in Bauchi State I visited the tomb of the late Tafawa Balewa. He was the first man to borrow money in Nigeria from the world bank. He borrowed 200 million dollars to build the Kanji dam.” He told them at the point that he was borrowing the money that he needed the money to spur economic growth of the country. Kanji dam was built in 1964 and it is still standing. He added,  “If we have followed the footstep of Tafawa Balewa and used one third of the money to invest in power, Nigeria will not br where it is today. “We are the giant of Africa and generate 4,000 mega watts of electricity, South Africa which is the second in Africa generates 54,000 mega watts of electricity and it has a population of 60 million people.  Egypt is the third in Africa, with a population of 100 million people and generates 55,000 mega watts of electricity. Nigeria is just an unproductive nation. POLL “I want to appeal to the delegates 0to consider the future of Nigeria. If Nigeria collapses all of us will be refugees and if we continue the way we are going, Nigeria will collapse. “What are doing is sharing the future of our children and our unproductivity is responsible for the crisis in Nigeria. The natural way to pull people out of poverty is to provide means of livelihood and if that happens criminality will stop.” The former governor said, “It is unfortunate that we are comitted to killing our nation. The children that we didn’t send to school yesterday are the ones that are bandits today. We celebrate criminality and it is has to stop,” he noted. While appealing to the delegates to vote wisely, he said, “I want to appeal to the delegates that when you vote, please put the picture of your children in mind. Nigeria is fast collapse. The country that we are destroying will take its revenge on our children,” Obi said.