ABUJA – The crave to boost their knowledge in Information Communication Technology (ICT) has seen a group of students drawn from Government Secondary School, Gwarimpa, a suburb of Abuja, developing a website that would enable them monitor their teachers’ delivery of the course content for each term. Beyond that, the website is designed to solve other challenges encountered in the school, especially providing a platform where pupils and guardians would access their results online, including disseminating realtime information to parents about their ward’s attendance in class amongst others. It will also help in tracking students, teachers’ punctuality in school and give on the spot attendance ratio of students in school. -Advertisement- Some of the students who took part in the project, Paul Seydon, Okpara Emmanuel,Hauwa Mohammed, Adanma Mohammed, Chidi Wisdom, Smart Bold and Silas Faga, said they came up with the concept because they observed these challenges in their school environment and needed to do something to address them. According to them, most times when parents are processing their children’s admission, manually, the crowd tends to be much, so they came up with a system where the exercise can be conducted seamlessly, such that the site provides a one-stop-shop to address all the bottlenecks usually encountered in the school. The project which took the students eight months to develop has a successive plan for continuity. According to Paul Seydon, who spoke to our correspondent on behalf of the team, “we decided to unveil this project having observed the challenges the school faces, such as overcrowding during admission processing, isuuance of students result, punctuality and the need to also monitor our teachers delivery of the course contents. “The site is designed to help in passing information speedily to parents, track students attendance to school and lessons, help in admission process in a way of reducing crowd as a result of manual registration during admission. POLL “It will also help to know the actual number of students in the school at any given time, help in checking students result online and also track teachers attendance and delivery of their various lessons. “The project is intended to be launched on Google play store very soon, and it has a successive plan for continuity”.