CHIOMA UMEHA With millions of children suffering from acute malnutrition, wasting, stunting, underweight, and vitamin and mineral deficiencies, Nigeria faces a future devoid of human capacity in all fields unless immediate action is taken. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) reports estimated that more than two million children in Nigeria are suffering from severe acute malnutrition (SAM). -Advertisement- The agency further reported that the prevalence of undernourishment rose from 7.1 percent (from 2004 to 2006) to 14.6 percent (from 2018 to 2020). Similarly, Mr. Matthias Schmale, United Nations (UN) Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria, recently raised the alarm that the food security and nutrition situation is deteriorating in the country. Schmale further alerted that more and more families pushed towards vulnerability, and forced to resort to negative coping mechanisms including child labour and early marriage. Sadly too, a recent United Nations (UN) agency, Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO)  analysis titled, ‘The Cadre Harmonisé (CH)’ reports that 14.5 million Nigerians  require urgent assistance  to  address their nutrition needs. The analysis considered food and nutrition security outcomes (Food consumption, livelihood evolution, nutritional status and mortality); complemented with inferences drawn from the impact of relevant contributing factors (hazards and vulnerability, food availability, food access, food utilisation and stability). POLL The result of the analysis indicates that 14.5 million people (9.1 percent) of the analysed population require urgent assistance in the current period (March to May, 2022). During the projected period (June to August 2022), the number of vulnerable populations may rise to 19.5 million (12.3 percent) of the overall population, unless conscious efforts are made to provide strategic resilience-focused interventions and humanitarian assistance in areas where necessary. Experts while disaggregating the CH result revealed that children are one the vulnerable groups are among the worst hit in view of the escalating acute food shortage. The issue was also the major focus at a recent two-day media dialogue with media practitioners on Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs) As Child Rights, which was held in Enugu, Enugu state. For Nkeiruka Enwelum, Nutrition Officer, UNICEF Nigeria Country Office, poor nutrition contributes largely to high rate of child mortality. Enwelum said poor nutrition during the first 1,000 days of a child’s life, from conception to two years of age, causes lifelong damage. 45 percent of all child deaths are from poor nutrition. Poor nutrition in the 1,000 days from conception of a child to two years of age results in permanent damage. Micronutrient deficiencies often does not have physical manifestations so referred to as hidden hunger. This includes iron deficiency which causes anaemia and tiredness/weakness, vitamin A deficiency which causes a type of blindness, and calcium deficiency that causes weak bones. According to UNICEF, the first 1,000 days of any child have been discovered to be vital. UNICEF recommends that a child receives exclusive breastfeeding for at least 180 days, or six months, in order to put the child on a solid foundation in life, free of life-threatening illnesses. This allows the brain to function optimally, as well as allows the child to contribute meaningfully to society. Either the women did not effectively breastfeed their children during the first six months or they just gave the newborns water, which could disturb their normal growth and result in stunting. Nigeria has the second-highest burden of stunted children in the world, with a national prevalence rate of 37 percent of children under five years of age. An estimated 2.3 million children in Nigeria also suffer from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM). However, research shows that only two out of every 10 children affected have access to treatment. Malnutrition among children continues to be increasingly threatening, and $351 million is urgently needed by May to deliver life-saving food security and nutrition assistance to the most affected people. In total, the 2022 Humanitarian Response Plan for Nigeria is seeking $1.1 billion to support 5.5 million people. Not all funds set aside to fight childhood malnutrition have been released in Nigeria. Despite the United Nations declaring 2016 to 2026 as the ‘Decade of Nutrition,’ funds have been disbursed at the end of each year in some circumstances and not at all in others. There have been campaigns over the last four years with catchy slogans like “Investing in child nutrition saves children and reduces poverty in adulthood.”  According to research, every dollar invested in child nutrition in Africa generates a $16 return on investment; ‘Women empowerment increases children’s nutritional status. ‘With just N22,000, you can save a kid on the verge of death,’ ‘Support efforts to end malnutrition in the north-east,’ ‘Save the lives of children in the north-east, say no to violence, promote food and nutrition security,’ and so on are some of the more prevalent slogans. ‘A malnourished child is everyone’s burden,’ ‘Let us all join hands to save Nigeria’s future,’ ‘Think Nutrition, Save the Future!’, ‘Insurgency fuels malnutrition, malnutrition destroys our future,’ and ‘Do you know that if malnutrition in the north-east is not stopped, Nigeria’s GDP will worsen?’ are among the other slogans. All of this is aimed at securing a future for Nigeria. The time to match words with action is now.