***Vows To Prosecute Offenders LAGOS – The Lagos State Taskforce has reiterated its stand on zero tolerance to vices that have negative and harmful effects to the environment and actions carried out by recalcitrant law breakers with resonating effects on all and sundry in the State. This statement was made by CSP Shola Jejeloye, the Chairman of the Agency, in his office at Oshodi, where he briefed his officers and men on the need for them to expand their horizons and increase their output by carrying out the laid down assignment and responsibilities as enshrined in chapter E6 Schedule Section 4(I) of the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Law of the State. -Advertisement- He highlighted the vices to include; displaying of wares by the road side, selling on herb, illegal blocking of streets for social activities, flagrant pollution of the environment, indiscriminate parking of vehicles on roads, usage of unapproved bus and Okada bus stops, street trading, illegal collection of fees on the highways and people constituting nuisance with impunity within the State would no longer be tolerated, insisting that sanity would be restored no matter how long it takes. He urged his officers and men to carry out an all round operations in areas like Iyana-Ipaja, Oshodi, Ikeja Along, Yaba and other areas where Lagosians are made to face unnecessary traffic jam and hardship caused by traders who display their wares on the Road meant for easy passage of vehicles along that routes. “It has become worrisome having to spend man hours in traffic caused by unauthorized display of wares by traders on our roads thereby creating an artificial bottleneck. We have to put a stop to that by ensuring that activities involving buying and selling are taken off the roads and into the marketing complex designed for such” Jejeloye stated. Street trading that gives room for traffic robbery in some parts of the State is one of the issues highlighted by the Chairman who stressed the need for officials to ensure that the practice is brought down to barest minimum if not completely wipe out. “There are many instances where some street traders carry out their activities during the day and when it gets dark they pull out dangerous weapons like knives and sharp objects to rob motorists held up in traffic. If we can ensure that this issue is taken care of at the roots, it will drastically reduce the cases of traffic robbery being reported daily. We have received series complaints from motorists and we will make sure this heinous acts become a thing of the past” Jejeloye stated. POLL CSP Jejeloye assured Lagosians that the Agency will not rest on its oars in ensuring that sanity is maintained in all parts of the State as he and his officals are working round the clock to make sure that offenders are brought to book. “We are going to make series of arrests in the coming week and they will all be made to face mobile court immediately for prosecution. This will serve as a deterrent to others to desist from carrying out activities that are detrimental to others. The Roads, inner streets and Highways belong to us all and it is in our best interest to make sure we safe guard and preserve them for our use” he concluded.