…As Presidential Aspirant Assures On Improved Security Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Friday, May 6, 2022, visited Governor Chukwuma Charles Soludo at the Governor’s Lodge in Amawbia where the VP described his host as an asset to the nation. -Advertisement- Welcoming the Vice President to Anambra State, Governor Soludo remarked that the government and people of Anambra State were delighted to receive him in the State. He commended the Vice President for his exemplary leadership role as the chairman of the National Economic Council and in other areas where he has acted on behalf of Mr. President. POLL Governor Soludo again called on the progressives in the country irrespective of party affiliation to form a coalition toward building a better and stronger Nigeria. He emphasised that once the federating states were made to work, the country at large would ultimately be better for it. Talking about insecurity, Soludo solicited the assistance of the federal government in tackling the menace in the State. Meanwhile, the governor has commended the Armed Forces and other security agencies for working very hard to keep the country safe and secure. He also used the occasion to brief the Vice President on his administration’s urban regeneration efforts, road and traffic management as well as other programmes which his administration is embarking on. Responding, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo expressed gratitude to Governor Soludo for the warm reception accorded him and his entourage. The VP described Soludo as an asset to Nigeria and whose advice he had always sought on economic issues. Vice President Osinbajo reassured Soludo of sustaining the existing partnership between Anambra State and the federal government in tackling insecurity in the state. He reiterated that issues about security remain the first order of business stressing that President Buhari has recently re-engineered the security architecture and assured that the strategic moves will soon begin to yield the desired result. Present at the occasion were the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr Ernest Ezeajughi and other top government functionaries.