Ike Nnaebue is an idealistic filmmaker, who has won awards nationally and on the world stage. He is also the chief executive officer of LP House of Creatives. In this interview with Ikechi Nzeako, he stressed the importance of a conducive space and functional infrastructure in the creative process and why his company is building a network of safe spaces for creatives, tech entrepreneurs and business people. What was the motivation to establish the hub? The motivation was simple; I have been working as a creative for a living; I have been a musician, filmmaker, writer, and editor for over 20 years. And for all those years we have been complaining that there is no structure in the industry and that the government has not done this and that. But if you have complained about something for 20 years and nothing was done, I think it would be foolish to continue to do so. So, I decided to do something about it and found like minds and we started LP, which is Love Portion and now LP House of Creatives. -Advertisement- And what do you do? We curate safe spaces for creatives; we are building a network of creative spaces across Africa and some select places in the world. What we want to do is create a synergy between creatives, tech entrepreneurs and business people; this is why we host events where creatives and tech and business people meet, network and collaborate. We collaborate with other organizations and communities to bring about the change we want in our society. African creatives need to be paid better; they need a conducive environment to work from and to work in; they need to come to a space like this to relax because we know that creativity has a lot to do with inspiration. If people are not inspired, they will not be able to create and we know that space is a huge factor for inspiration. We have had many testimonies about this. This is our second hub; the first one is in Sangotedo in Lekki, Lagos. Our plan is to build 10 hubs this year across Africa. One will be in Kenya, another one in Kigali, one Rwanda, one in Cotonou, Accra and one Abuja and Port Harcourt. We want to bring the number in the network to 10 by the end of third quarter 2022. We are raising money to do this at the moment. While trying to raise money, we are looking at properties in Abuja and Port Harcourt right now. It takes creativity to build a business; it takes creativity to write codes that solve problems; it takes creativity to write screenplays that become films. It takes creativity to create sounds and music videos. It is one ecosystem and we are trying to galvanize it. What is the environment in the hub like? POLL The environment is serene and relaxed; we have spaces like the courtyard and it is open air. It is important that there are trees in our spaces because we understand the power of nature to inspire; we make sure that people are close to nature, people get a lot of inspiration when they are close to nature. We have spaces that you can rent to stay as a hotel room and we curate experience around that. You can take a room that comes with massage and others that will make you have the experience that will inspire you. We actually sell Experiences. We have other spaces like offices, which you can rent to do your meetings and conferences. We also have food and drinks for our clients. We also have business incubation programmes; we help incubate media and tech startups. Many people have great ideas but they do not have the spaces where they can grow the ideas and we provide the appropriate spaces and support to them. When did you start? We have been doing this for about two years now; we started in 2020. Our first hub is in Sangotedo, Lekki, Lagos, and this is our second. How has the experience been? The experience has been amazing and magical; it is like doing something that deeply touches people. When people come into our space, it quickens their minds. It is either that they are able to awaken a dormant dream or they dream new and bigger dreams; it is very rewarding for us as people always share how they are transformed when they come into our space. What are challenges of running a business like this in Nigeria? The challenges we face relate to funding; now we are tying to raise money and ensure that the existing hubs are up to par. It is important for us that we create a network of hubs. We face the challenge of running a business in Nigeria; we have the power issue. We spend a lot of money on power; we have four generators here and they consume a lot of fuel; the price of diesel has hit the roof. There are other challenges but we are ready and will surmount the challenges. What advice would give to entrepreneurs in the country? I think Nigeria is one of the best places to start a business; I say that because I have travelled and seen what is obtainable in other places. You just need to understand the terrain and challenges that come with starting a business in Nigeria. What is your assessment of the creative industry in the country? The creative industry in Nigeria needs funding; there is the need to create structures that will help the industry to grow. The sector needs funding and support. Nigerians are very creative and talented and there is need to create the environment that will bring the best out of our people.