LAGOS – Stakeholders including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Enugu State Government, and the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade & Investment have commended Nigerian Breweries Plc for taking the bold decision to commence civil works on the expansion of Ama Brewery in Enugu, which is estimated to cost N56billion. The expansion project is expected to boost the brewing capacity from 2.7 million hectolitres to 4.8 billion hectolitres in the first phase and up to 6 million hectolitres in the second phase. Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), while praising the company for the expansion project, noted that the apex regulator would continue to come up with policies that would improve the non-oil sectors of the economy as a means of cushioning the impact of the global shock on the Nigerian economy. -Advertisement- Emefiele, who was represented by the Director, Trade and Exchange, Dr. Ozoemena Nnaji, urged the company to take advantage of the several intervention programs put in place by the Bank for further expansion projects, assuring that it remains committed to collaborating with the company in the collective quest to increase the contribution of the non-oil sector to Nigeria’s GDP. Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the Governor of Enugu State, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Ortuanya, while speaking at the commissioning ceremony, commended Nigerian Breweries Plc for taking the bold step to expand its current brewing capacity, which demonstrates its commitment to the Nigerian economy and Enugu State. According to Ugwuanyi, when completed, this project would enhance the industrial growth of Enugu and Nigeria while improving the company’s market share. Otunba Niyi Adebayo, the Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade & Investment, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Industrial Department, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade & Investment, Mrs. Olumuyiwa Ade-Ajayi, in his remarks, commended the management of the company for their foresight and determination in embarking on this massive project which would, no doubt, mark a significant milestone in local content achievement. He stated further that the company has, over the years, demonstrated immense capacity to support the government’s commitment towards local content, as can be seen in Nigeria’s economic transformation. Mr. Dolf van den Brink, the Chief Executive Officer, HEINEKEN, on his part, stated that the investment in Ama Brewery is a further demonstration of the long-standing history and relationship between HEINEKEN and Nigeria, which dates back to 1946. POLL “Based on our longstanding role in the past and present, HEINEKEN is investing €112 Million in this important Ama Brewery Expansion project because we see ourselves as playing a major role in Nigeria’s future. We are proud to be part of the growth and development of this great state and country.”, he said. The President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, represented by the Director-General, Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadir, lauded the company for its resourcefulness in kicking off the civil works for the expansion of Ama Brewery. According to Ajayi-Kadir, this bold move by the company demonstrates the strategic thinking of the board and management of the company and its firm belief in the boundless possibilities in the Nigerian market.