LAGOS – Advans La Fayette MFB Limited, one of the leading microfinance bank supporting small businesses, and a member of Advans Group has launched the education loan products to assist school owners and parents respectively to run their schools and pay school fees with ease. The new products are Advans Boost, comprising of Advans School Boost and Advans Eduloan. Advans School Boost is designed to provide working and investment capital for school owners while Advans Eduloan is to assist parents to pay their children’s school fees with ease. The third product is the Advans Kiddies, which is a high-yield savings account to help parents save towards the future of their children while still earning interest. -Advertisement- Gaëtan Debuchy, the Managing Director, Advans La Fayette MFB Limited, in his welcome remarks at the launch and Stakeholders’ Engagement event held at the Shoregate Hotels, Ikeja, Lagos, said: “We recognised that lack of finance is one of the biggest banes of education. Emboldened by the fact that investment in quality education yields the best dividend, we created these products to offer solutions to the challenge. As a leading microfinance bank, we are focused on providing premium financial services to our customers.” Fanny Belhomme, the Project Manager, Advans La Fayette MFB, while speaking at the event, said: “Advans School Boost allows school owners to access loans up to 75 million Naira to cover school expenses. The loan has a very competitive interest rate, a flexible repayment plan and no hidden costs. “Parents can access up to N500,000 with the Advans Eduloan, to pay their children’s school fees. The loan is easy to access, with a low-interest rate and flexible repayment plans”, she added. Kayode Abraham, the Marketing and Communication Manager, Advans La Fayette MFB, said: “The process of accessing the education loans is neither rigorous nor daunting. Simply visit our website: www.advansnigeria.com to complete the application form and receive the funds immediately, if eligible.” Advans Nigeria is a member of Advans Group; a leading international microfinance group currently serving over 1.1 million clients in 10 countries including Cambodia, Cameroon, Ghana, Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Pakistan, Nigeria, Tunisia and Myanmar. For more than 15 years, the bank has offered a complete range of financial services that has helped build over 4 million small businesses.