According to a report from The Athletic, VfB Stuttgart’s sensational final minute survival in the Bundesliga seems to have paid dividends as the club are now on the verge of sealing a permanent deal for Konstantinos Mavropanos. The Arsenal defender has been on loan at Stuttgart for two seasons and could now make his move permanent this summer. The report indicates Stuttgart are set to trigger a £4.5 million clause in the Mavropanos deal. Although the clause hinged on their survival in the Bundesliga, the Swabians had informed Arsenal of their desire to keep hold of the defender regardless. -Advertisement- Mavropanos, after all, has played an integral role behind Stuttgart’s rise to prominence under the tutelage of Pellegrino Matarazzo. The Greek’s physical and aerial dominance, combined with his no-nonsense defensive mentality had been a boon for a Stuttgart backline ever since their promotion in 2020. While the Swabians had struggled with form this season and required a rescue act from Borussia Dortmund during the final matchday of the campaign, they believe Mavropanos could continue to play a key role for the club in the years to come. Mavropanos’ permanent move to Stuttgart might not bode well for West Ham, though. The Hammers had been on the tail of the Greek international for quite some time now, with David Moyes identifying him as an ideal alternative for Craig Dawson or Angelo Ogbonna next season. But it appears the 24-year-old is set to continue his chapter in the Bundesliga. The defender already has over 50 appearances in the German top-flight to his name and his defensive contributions could once again be vital as Stuttgart look to recover from a disastrous campaign. On a curious note, however, there is a window of opportunity for Stuttgart to make a quick profit by immediately offloading Mavropanos. The Swabians will be aware of West Ham’s interest in the player and the Hammers will be more than willing to exceed the £10 million or perhaps even the £15 million mark. POLL Since Arsenal will be powerless to interfere in this deal, it will be an opportunity for Stuttgart to earn a considerable transfer revenue. However, amid uncertainty surrounding the future of Borna Sosa, and Sasa Kalajdzic, Stuttgart are highly unlikely to consider the sale of another top player at the club.