A chieftain  of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bunmi Adetumbi has declared that his brilliant performance in the Red Chamber would earn him return ticket in the party. Adetumbi, a second term Senator  who is  the current occupant of the position for Ekiti North District  maintained that his records of achievements remains unmatched, having attracted projects worth N3billion to the constituency. The ranking senator therefore challenged those allegedly calling for his head in the race to come out verifiable evidence to debunk his claims on performance. -Advertisement- In the statement made available  to journalists  by his Director of Operations,Segun Adelugba,the senator urged members of the public to disregard the  alleged sponsored protest against him ,describing it as the handiwork of his political adversaries . Some APC members had on Saturday besieged the party’s Secretariat at Ajilosun Area of Ado Ekiti and condemned alleged grand plot by some powerful individuals to foist the Senator on the party. “The projects I have done are  positively impactful and non-partisan constituents, whom I have served well were appreciative of my giant strides and giving me credit going by the quantum of messages of hope that I get on daily basis.” “The projects that I had attracted through partnerships with federal government and its agencies as well as the ones I  personally bankrolled dotted across towns, villages and 56 wards in Ekiti North. They are verifiable evidence of my superlative representation”. Outlining some of  his achievements, Adetunmbi said: “In the area of infrastructure, I have sunk 20 solar-powered boreholes, built seven road projects, built 3,6 and 12-block of classrooms in six selected schools located in different towns. Those leading the protest cannot claim to be representatives of communities that have expressed appreciation for my good works in the district.” POLL “I facilitated ecological and erosion control and roads in Oye Ekiti, have undertaken five township projects in Ido, Otun, Ikole and Ifaki, built lock-up shops classrooms and an ICT training centre  in four local governments of Ikole, Ilejemeje, Oye and Ido/Osi councils, while new projects for the district have been captured in the 2022 fiscal year.” “Work is currently ongoing on a road project that I facilitated in Oye Ekiti in Oye Local Government area of Ekiti. This is a cogent evidence of democracy dividends that can be measured and evaluated by anyone”. In the area of education and human capital development, Adetunmbi he had expended over N10 million on scholarship awards to 200 students to acquire higher degrees , while about 300 artisans have been exposed to modern training to sharpen their expertises in areas of ICT and wig making for young ladies. He added further; “450 beneficiaries of the first phase of NDE Special Public Works I facilitated got N60,000 each, making a sum of N27m. Another round of 650 beneficiaries of NDE Special Public Works collect N60,000 per beneficiary gulped a sum of N39m.” “The second phase of Covid-19 loan benefited 50 persons and through this, over N20m had been injected into our local economy, apart from training for unempoloyed graduates, among other innovations I have brought to uplift my constituents. “I had also given  financial benefits to  different interest groups in Ekiti North. Each of them got a sum of N50,000 running into millions to banish poverty. In totality, I have attracted over N3b projects to my constituency”.