Ejike Abana (Government House Correspondent) The government of Anambra State has condoled with Mr. Jubril Ahmed, the husband of late Hariri Jubril who was killed alongside her four children by yet-to-be-identified gunmen in Anambra. Government House Correspondent, Ejike Abana reports that the delegation sent by Governor Soludo including the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Paul Nwosu, his Women and Social Development counterpart, Mrs. Ify Obinabo, Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Christian Aburime, among others met with him at the Cattle Market, Amansea. -Advertisement- Commissioner Nwosu who conveyed the condolence message from the Governor and Ndi Anambra to the family of the departed, explained that it was not a targeted attack on a particular tribe or religion. Mr Nwosu expressed shock at how people could be killed in cold blood, noting that the Governor would have attended but for urgent security concerns, he is attending to, stressing that Ndi Igbo and other tribes have lived together for so long in peace and harmony, urging them to go about their lawful businesses. The emotion-laden Commissioner Obinabo stated that Anambra people are largely travellers who are receptive to people from other tribes, appealing to the gunmen to have a rethink for the sake of their unborn generation and stop killing fellow human beings as such doesn’t pay. Leader of Miyetti Allah in the South East, Mallam Gidado Sadiq who described the incident as horrible, thanked the governor for sending the delegation, explaining that they have lost many people, stressing that many of their people are already travelling as a result of the incident. While pledging their readiness to continue working with the government to enthrone peace in the state, Mallam Gidado noted that the people living and doing business in Anambra are aware that they are not the target recalling the lawmaker who was also killed in a gruesome manner. POLL The deceased’s husband, Alhaji Jubril lacked words to express himself, though the Sarkin Chamber of Anambra State, Usman Farang prayed that violence should stop. Chairman, Amansea Cattle market, Alhaji Bello Maigari, younger sister to the late Harira, Suweiba Musa, as well as the Hausa Community in Amansea, were present during the visit. Alhaji Jubril works as a security guard in Anambra State. Before her death, Harira Jibril was aged 32, while her four children: Fatima, Khadijah, Hadiza and Zaituna, were aged nine, seven, five and two respectively. A cash compensation was presented to the bereaved at the visit.