BAUCHI – A group of concerned friends, relatives, associates and well-wishers have purchased Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms for Muhammad Sani Al’ameen, a Bauchi gubernatorial Aspirant, to contest the 2023 governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), worth the sum of N50 million. This is coming after the groups had for several weeks, gathered contributions from friends, associates, professional bodies and like minds by creating a centre for collection where all members channelled their various contributions. Presenting the purchased form to Al’ameen, the Spokesperson of the collection, Alhaji Muazu Chiroma, said that the contributions that came in, were as low as N1,000 and below, depending on what people could afford. -Advertisement- He said that concerned friends, associates and well-wishers were concerned about the affairs of the state and wanted Al’ameen not only to lead, but to unify Bauchi State, adding that the move was also to show their appreciation to Al’ameen for the purposeful leadership qualities he has demonstrated in different capacities in the past. The Spokesperson explained that the donations came from many registered members of clubs, associations, professional bodies, friends of Al’ameen, his relatives and well-wishers across the state just as he urged the APC delegates to put the interest of the state above any other interest by picking Al’ameen as APC gubernatorial candidate. He assured of continuous mobilisation of supporters for Al’ameen across the 20 local government areas of the state. In his response, Muhammad Sani Al’ameen expressed gratitude for the confidence reposed in him by the groups, saying that he was particularly impressed with those who gave as little as amN1,000 and below from their meagre resources. He commended them for their sacrifices and for identifying with him and the APC in Bauchi State, assuring the groups that if elected, his administration will give priority to Agriculture and create four Dams across the state in order to enable people to carry out both rainy and dry season farming as part of efforts to reduce poverty and create employment opportunities for the unemployed youths across the state. POLL “I will also invest in commerce, vocational education, job and wealth creation and will do everything that will create sanity, restore the norms, values and development of the state by improving infrastructures. “I pledge to makes Bauchi a state where each citizen will be proud of, because I will run an all-inclusive, just and fair leadership with the fear of Allah,” he said.