LAGOS – New Sierra Leone captain, de­fender Steven Caulker, has said qualifying for Cote d’Ivoire will be a difficult task for the West African side who made a promis­ing return to the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon last January-Feb­ruary. After playing in England’s youth teams, the defender, on loan to Gaziantep from Turkish Süper Lig team Fenerbahçe, will lead the troops in these qualifiers which will pit Sierra Leone against Nigeria, Guinea Bissau and the winner of Mauritius-Sao Tome and Principe. Caulker started his professional career with Tottenham Hotspur in 2009. He spent three seasons on loan with Yeovil Town, Bristol City and Swansea City. -Advertisement- At Swansea he made his first appearances in the English Premier League (EPL) and at the end of the season played for Britain at the 2012 Olympics. In November 2012 he made a scoring England debut in a friendly against Sweden. He was sold to newly promoted Cardiff City for the 2013/14 season but was unable to prevent their relegation from the Premier League. He was subsequently sold to Queens Park Rangers (QPR) for the following 2014/15 season; who themselves were relegated. He spent the next few seasons largely on loan to Southampton and Liverpool before playing half a season for Dundee in the Scottish Premiership. He then joined Turkish Süper Lig team Alanyaspor in January 2019. Sierra Leone will open the qualifiers for the AFCON 2023 against Nigeria, three-time African champions against whom they drew two times (4-4 and 0-0) in the qualifiers for the previous African Cup of Nations (AFCON). After Nigeria, Sierra Leone will host Guinea Bissau in the Guinean capital a few days later. POLL The 30-year-old Caulker said he was ready to take on the challenge “again against the best nations in African football”. “It would be difficult but I’m excited to start these qualifiers, we have a lot of new talent, new players, a new system and a new identity. I am really delighted to be able to lead this group in qualifying,” explained the central defender in an interview with the media of his country. The former Liverpool and Tottenham centre-back, who made his international debut for the Leone Stars in the 0-0 match against Algeria at the TotalEnergies AFCON in Cameroon, has admitted that there is no easy match in African football. “Our qualifying group is going to be tough, obviously Nigeria will be looking to bounce back from their disappointment following their elimination to Ghana in the 2022 World Cup,” explained the new Sierra Leonean captain. “The qualifiers will therefore be a way to forget the disappointment so it will be a revengeful and difficult to manoeuvre around the Nigeria team which will be in front”, analysed Steven Caulker. The other selections of group A, Guinea-Bissau, Sao Tome or Mauritius, are far from being stooges, added captain Caulker. Sierra Leone is part of the teams forced to play away, since no stadium has been approved in their territory. Still, Caulker wants to stay positive even though he longed to play in front of the many fans in Sierra Leone. “To be honest, I would have loved to play in front of our fans in Sierra Leone, but that’s how it is, we have to be ready. It’s always good to face the best, it creates that challenge,” he said. “We have to be at our best for every game and against Nigeria is an opportunity to put Sierra Leone on the world football map. I’m sure like we did in the last AFCON, we have to be at our best for all games, not just against Nigeria, we should go into e v e r y g a m e w i t h t h e ambition to win it”, he continued. S t e v e n C a u l k e r was named S i e r r a L e o n e c a p t a i n during their March training camp in Turkey. Sierra Leone lost 0-3 to Togo before winning against Liberia (1-0) and Congo (2- 1) during the FIFA international break in March. Recalled that on November 13, 2020, the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone came from 4-0 down to surprisingly hold the Super Eagles of Nigeria to a 4-4 in Group L 2021 AFCON qualifier in Benin City, Edo State. The Super Eag l e s look to be c r u i s i n g in the first half thanks to a brace from Alex Iwobi and goals from Samuel Chukwueze and Victor Osimhen before the visitors started the fight back. It was Alex Iwobi that opened the flood gates of goals in the fourth minute before Victor Osimhen doubled the lead. The Everton midfielder made it 3-0 in the 27th minute and then Samuel Chukwueze increase the tally three minutes afterward. When Kwame Quee reduced the deficit to 4-1 late in the first half, many saw it just as a face-saving goal but it turned out to be crucial as it gave the visitors the push for a revival in the second half. In the second half, substitutes Al-Hadji Kamara and Mustapha Bundu turned the tables as the duo combined to get the three goals that saw the Leone Stars force a 4-4 draw. In the return leg on November 17 at the National Stadium, Freetown, Sierra Leone, the match ended goalless, thus the two teams qualified from the group for the AFCON 2021.