LAGOS – To promote local tourism in the country, Hotels ETC Nigeria has launched Discount Membership Club tagged“A perfect business with no competition “ in Lagos. Speaking at the launch, Chief Executive Officer of Hotels ETC Nigeria, Mrs Yetunde Adetuyi -Okafor affirmed that the event was necessary not only to bring more members into their platform but to offer discounts to their travelling members. According to her, the launch will also bring job creation as well connecting trade and tourism in the country. -Advertisement- She expressed surprise that most Nigerians are not aware of the tourist sites in the country and therefore stressed the need for Nigerians in the diaspora to encourage their friends to visit tourist sights in Nigeria. While explaining that her organisation is a global firm with over four million members, she appreciated the fact that Nigeria has joined the global firm and maintained that such development will also promote local tourism. According to her, the promotion of tourism is what the country needs as it would yield more money to the sector. Appreciating the fact that security in the country will encourage tourism, she frowned at the high rate of insecurity in the country and appealed to mothers and guardians to ensure their wards are properly brought up in the way of the Lord. In her words: “Insecurity in the country is not perpetrated by the government but individuals. There are a lot of evils springing up in the country such as ritual killings, and kidnapping among others. POLL We should go back home and ensure our children are properly trained. An armed robber out there is coming from a home. We should get it right from the family.” Speaking also, Lagos State Commissioner of Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Yetunde Arobieke who was represented by a director of Employment, Seriki- Bello lauded the organisers of the programme, adding that such an initiative would reduce the high rate of unemployment in the country as it would create job opportunities for the unemployed youths. Also speaking, a representative of the Lagos State governor, who is the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Tourism, Mrs. Oyinade Nathan- Marsh described the launch as a welcome initiative that would boost businesses in the country.