Preparatory to the 2023 general elections and All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries, Youth and Women organizations have thrown their weight and solidarity on Dr. Ibrahim Dauda El-Dabi, one of the APC Presidential aspirants. In a speech delivered today at the NUT Secretariat, Damaturu, the State Coordinator of Ibrahim Presidential Campaign Organization, Abba Hassan Audu expressed gratitude to the teeming supporters “am most honored to be here in the company of this great minds; young men and women of intellect, ambitious youths, and leaders of various organizations who believe in the capability and capacity of the candidature of Dr Ibrahim Bello DaudaEl-Dabi”. -Advertisement- According to him “Ladies and gentlemen, the world is fast changing and we must not be left behind. It is Youth O’clock and we must give the youths the chance to take us there with the desired speed with which the world is fast moving. It is high time youths equipped with knowledge of modern economy like Dr Ibrahim Dauda El-Dabi are giving the chance to lead Nigeria to the promise land”.He revealed that Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda El-dabi is a professional chartered accountant and a seasoned politician. “Dr Ibrahim is one of the chieftain of the then Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), founded by General Muhammadu Buhari in 2009 as a vehicle for the April 2011 elections. In 2019, he was the National Secretary of the Central Working Committee of the APC Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, as well as a member of the Support Groups Directorate of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and Director of Operations to the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO)”. “If given the mandate to lead Nigeria come 2023, Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda El-Dabi will focus on key areas like insecurity, economic development, job creation and youths and women empowerment, agriculture and industrialization”. “Ladies and gentlemen the Journey to the promise land which we all desire starts today. The theme of our journey is One to tell ten and ten to tell many. We shall all put in our best to campaign for El-Dabi come 2023 for the good of this country, which is why we urge APC to lead by example and give a youth the ticket to represent the party at the general elections come 2023. The Youths and Women of Yobe State are with El-Dabi”. “Once again let me emphasize the need for us all; the youths, women, the physically challenged, business communities, students, teachers and lecturers, security personnel, all Nigerians to rally round El-Dabi to emerge as the APC Presidential Candidate towards the general election in 2023”. POLL The team also visited the palace of His Royal Highness, the Emir of Damaturu Alhaji Shehu Hashimi Ibn El-Kenemi where the State Coordinator informed the monarch that Ibrahim Presidential Campaign Organisation (IPCO) is a dedicated campaign organization that mobilizes support for Dr. Ibrahim Bello Dauda El-Dabi, the youngest aspirant of the All Progressive Congress (APC) vying for the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the forthcoming general elections. “Your Highness, Dr Ibrahim Dauda El-dabi is a professional chartered accountant and a seasoned politician. Dr Ibrahim is one of the chieftain of the then Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), founded by General Muhammadu Buhari in 2009 as a vehicle for the April 2011 elections. In 2019, he was the National Secretary of the Central Working Committee of the APC Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team, as well as a member of the Support Groups Directorate of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and Director of Operations to the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO)”. “We are here on behalf of Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda El-Dabi for your blessings and fatherly advice”. The Emir thanked them for the visit and wished them well.