LAGOS  – The Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange Limited, Temi Popoola, has commended Access Holding Plc’s contribution to the growth of the Exchange and the Nigerian economy just as he assured NGX’s commitment to collaborating with institutions driving growth in the Nigerian economy. Popoola disclosed this during the closing gong ceremony hosted by NGX to commemorate Access Holdings’ successful restructuring into a holding company structure, and the listing of 35.545 billion ordinary shares of Access Holdings Plc on the floor of the Exchange. He noted that the Exchange was proud to be part of the progress that Access Holdings had successfully achieved over the past 20 years. He assured the stakeholders the company would find a worthy partner in the Exchange as it commenced its new journey. Mr Abubakar Mahmoud, the Chairman of NGX, while speaking at the event,congratulated the board of directors and executive management of Access Holdings and the parties to the transaction, Chapel Hill Denham Advisory Limited, Coronation Securities Limited, Aluko & Oyebode, and Africa Law Practice NG & Company. He said: “NGX has emerged from a recent restructuring and is better positioned to support our stakeholders in their quest to raise long-term capital. “The Exchange is better positioned to lead government advocacy efforts for listed companies, promote technology advancement and digital innovation for the capital market, and increase retail investor participation in the capital market aimed at building a market for the future and addressing the prevailing challenge of financial inclusion. “We welcome Access Holdings Plc to a renewed NGX and look forward to deepening our collaboration to develop and push for disruptive, out-of-the-box ideas financial products that will dimension the next curve for the capital market.” POLL Herbert Wigwe, the Group Managing Director of Access Holding Plc, in his address, said with the transition of the company from a banking structure to an institutional structure, it is in position to increase its customer base from 45 million to 100 million. Herbert Wigwe, the Group Managing Director of Access Holding Plc, stated this while speaking while performing the closing gong ceremony at the close of trading on Thursday to commemorate the restructuring and listing of Access Holdings Plc on the floor of the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX). Herbert noted that with the transition, the Holding company would create an ecosystem world platform where, “Nigerians and Africans can go in and consummate transactions, resolve their lifestyle issues, resolve their mortgage issues, resolve payment issues. It is no longer the narrow definition of banking, it’s far beyond banking. That is what Access Corporation stands for”. He added, “Over the next couple of weeks and probably the next reporting period, you will see how the performance from the different verticals and then you’ll start to see how each one of them set to support our 45 million customers growing to over a 100 million in the next five years,” Wigwe said. Herbert Wigwe, while appreciating the stockbrokers recalled that the Nigerian Exchange Limited, formerly, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) had been the platform the company went to when the Central Bank of Nigeria increased capitalisation from N2 billion to N25 billion. He added that since the listing of the bank on the Nigerian bourse, the company had grown steadily and witnessed the greatest merger in the country. Wigwe noted that the management of the company had over the years been working tirelessly to ensure return on investment, while noting that the company had delivered on all the promises it made to the stockbroking community. He stressed that corporate governance is key to the company as it had at different points in time in the last 20 years come to the exchange to share its plans. Delivering his remarks, Chairman, Access Holdings Plc, Mr Bababode Osunkoya, said, “The significance of this event as our first external engagement as Access Holdings Plc is not lost on us. “Access Holdings Plc is an evolutionary expression for us which signifies our moving away from what was known as Access Bank into a financial institution. “We acknowledge the impact of our collaboration with The Exchange over the years and we look forward to continuing this mutually beneficial partnership to take Nigeria and Africa to the world.” Q1:2022 Profit Up 9.2% The top lender told the shareholders and management of the Nigerian Exchange Limited that it recorded a remarkable growth in its first quarter ended March 2022 unaudited results as it posted a profit after tax of N57.4 billion. This represents an improvement of 9.2 per cent from what was recorded in the comparable period of 2021. Gross earnings summed up to N340.4 billion, 53 per cent higher when set beside the figure for the relative period of last year. Access Holdings’ shares, listed in Lagos, climbed 0.51 per cent following the earnings release. The financial services group incurred N44.6 billion as net loss on financial instruments at fair value in stark contrast to a net gain of N27.1 billion a year earlier. That had implications for operating expenses, shooting it up 76.8 per cent to N161.8 billion. The financial group, which operates in sixteen markets, has revealed an ambition to be numbered among the five largest banks on the continent in five years.