EJIKEME OMENAZU In recent time, a lot of people have raised eyebrow over what they term the ostentatious living or extravagant lifestyles of gospel ministers. Such critics maintain that going by the lifestyles of a lot of God’s minister, a lot people could be heading for hell fire. They are also of the view that the lifestyles of such ministers, be they Apostles, Bishops, Evangelists, Prophets, Pastors and Teachers, indeed do not positively impact on church growth and the expansion of the Lord’s kingdom. Sunday INDEPENDENT put the issue before some Christian clerics. Here are their views. Rev. Dr. Kalu Ofon Emmanuel, President, Cloud of Glory Global Outreach Ministries, Lagos, in his response maintained that during the Apostolic Age and after ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ to heaven, Christianity had no comparison to the current practices. According to him, “The early Church shared things in common. There was no nepotism, nationality, colour discrimination, tribalism, and favouritism. “They absolutely upheld true standard of Christianity and spirituality. They never compromised their faith with materialism nor fought over denominational membership. The Apostles were primarily concerned and passionate about soul winning, caring for the widows and needy (Acts 6:1- 5). No wander Apostle Paul was great by the reason of soul winning and church planting, much more than the show off prevalent in our generation. POLL “Although they did not have the sophisticated technology available to us now, but they did exploit. The proliferation of churches, insubordination of some Junior Pastors to Senior Pastors and splitting have caused more harm to the church and some self-called ministers by focusing more on material things, instead of divine assignment which has brought criticisms and shame to Christianity as a whole.” Rev Emmanuel continued: “The ostentatious lifestyle of some current ministers of God has caused more harmful impact on people which has made them have suspicious and negative utterances towards them. Consequently, there is high-class competitiveness among them in such a way that if you do not have a flashy car or private jet, you belong to low class. “There is 100% nothing wrong about having such wealth, but there is 100% + 10% condemnation and something wrong for not taking care of the needy among them and real propagation of the gospel as the early church did.” Another cleric, Rev Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove, President, Apostolic Mandate and minster, Revival Assembly (the New Anointing Church), Ogba, Lagos, stated: “Ministers and their ostentatious living have raised more questions than answers, not just in body of Christ, but also in the society. “The truth is that God is not poor and did not call his people to poverty or penury in life and ministry. This is because financial success plays key role to help promote the gospel and for it to have greater impacts in the society. “… My cities (The Church) through prosperity shall yet be spread abroad” – Zechariah 1:17. “However, the bastardisation, abuse and mismanagement of wealth among ministers through ostentatious lifestyle, has given reasons for concern in these last days and has raised the issue of Christian modesty as highly championed in early days of Christianity and the Bible, which clearly admonishes that: “Our moderation should be known to all men” – Philippians 4:5 “While some may argue that ostentatious living is relative and subjective, the truth is it has had more negative, than positive impact on the church and society. “This is because: It has erroneously become the yardstick of ‘Spiritual’ maturity among many baby and gullible Christians. It has also become a symbol of class and discriminations among many ministers and brethren. “In desperation to ‘belong’ and be counted as having arrived and ‘spiritually matured’, many have dabbled into occultism and crime. “Ostentatious living has created unhealthy competitions among several ministers that the gospel being preached in most churches today are one sided (anchoring more on prosperity) and no longer balanced with godly and righteous living with self-discipline, which is the hallmark of Christian faith. “It has set a bench mark of wrong value system in both the church and society.” Rev. Saltlove continued: “The Bible clearly admonished on chasing after ostentatious living and its inherent dangers, as in 1 Timothy 6:9. “Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.” He stressed: “In summary, some ministers living ostentatious lifestyle are agents of devil, who wants the gospel of Jesus Christ to be held in disrepute and throw a lot of questions and snags on the Christian character and the body of Christ. “Others are baby ministers with misplaced priorities and wrong understanding of Biblical definition of Christian Royalty and few among them are not broken in spirit and thus in essence do more damages in every ramifications.” On her own, Rev. Dr. Grace Deh, Presiding Minister and Visioner, Altar of Praise and Worship, Lagos, stated: “People who are described as ostentatious, or whose lifestyles can be described as such, typically are seen as spending money in a way that makes it clear that they have a lot of it. She said: “Being ostentatious is characterised by pretentious or showy display; designed to impress. God himself has called his men and women in to service to bless them. God said “I have not called the seed of Jacob to seeking me in vain. God also said in the scriptures your gates shall be open continually. God has assured of blessings for his ministers. “The problem is: How can men of God live a simply glorious life, showcasing the glory of God without being ostentatious. God has already said ‘In blessing I will bless you’. God is very intentionally involved in the blessing of his servants who prove themselves. But, to get out of ostentatious lifestyles, Jesus’s leadership is our pointer. “Jesus said in John 17 that ‘I am glorified in them’, them referring to His disciple…what we have easily in the country are disciples or church members who can boast of the wealth of their ‘Daddies’ or ‘Mummies’ in the Lord. But, how many of those ministers live in the conditions which their flocks can be proud of? How many of us can be proud of our hundreds or thousands or even millions of flocks who happily call us ‘Mummy’ or ‘Daddy’? “We should shine through our flocks. As I used to tell my people, when they came to pick Jesus, Judas was to specifically point at Jesus for the soldiers to know that He was the leader/ shepherd. If not, nothing externally differentiated Him from His people. “This is a leadership quality of Jesus that ministers of God should try to emulate. Jesus said again to Peter: ‘If you love me, feed my sheep’. Before showing our ostentatious lifestyles, let us make sure that our sheep are also living that ostentatious lifestyles. If not, let us respects ourselves before the Lord and pray to our Father to show us the way to feed our sheep.” Also, Pastor Mrs. Funmi Nwosu, Resident Minister, Elim-Africa Mission Inc, Ikere-Ekiti Oasis, stated: “I have been much disturbed lately with the expressions of disgust the society is throwing at our clergymen, especially considering that they are castigating ‘ministers of God’ for living ostentatious lives. “But, I put it to you, that no ‘minister of God’ in this country is living ostentatiously. Yes, you heard me right. You cannot tag the large collection of scammers, charlatans and religious businessmen in this country as ‘ministers of God’. The word interpreted as ‘minister’ actually is ‘servant’, or ‘messenger’. “You can clearly see that most of the characters being fraudulently called ministers are nothing close to that…and the larger society knows this full well. The devil has fully fine-tuned the plot to soil the image of the blessed vocation or the clergy and has hired fraudsters to infiltrate this noble calling. “Is Pastor Adeboye of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) living ostentatiously? Is Joshua Selman living an ostentatious life? We all know those who are showy, glitzy, ritzy, glamorously dressed, moving with convoys and armed escorts all over the place. “If we are unable to identify them, isolate them, and insulate ourselves from their ostentatious, corrupt, controversial and immoral lifestyles, that will be our own fault. Not theirs. They are out to scam the gullible, and are succeeding in their religious businesses. “It is the responsibility of each and every discerning Christian person, to save himself from their corrupting influence, instead of blaming the holy church of Jesus Christ. “I warn those who think that they have captured the society, scammed the sheep and succeeded in covering up their dirty tracks, that the wrath of God is a frightening reality. “The authentic saints of the Lord are praying fervently…and these loquacious charlatans fleecing the flock of Christ and boasting about their smartness will soon be exposed and disgraced. “Have you not noticed that some of them are being captured with their loads of hard drugs and fetish? More is to follow, as the Lord continues His ongoing cleansing of the Church, in preparation for the final, conclusive end-time harvest. We are watching. And so are the glorified saints in the heavens.” On her own, Pastor Ada Dora Nwokeji, Resident Pastor, Enthroned Church of God, Ikeja, Lagos, said: “Yes, it is true that some of God’s ministers live ostentatious lifestyles. But, remember that they worked themselves up to wealth by much sacrifice. Every believer is called to prosper according to 3 John 1:2. Yet not all believers have come to this understanding. “Many are still wallowing in abject poverty and even feeling that God is unfair to them. This is simply because they are yet to learn how to apply the word of God to their lives. “Well, those men and women of great God who have arrived should, please, extend their wealth to the less privileged ones in the church by empowering them financially to enable them start up small-scale businesses or so. “I am also of the opinion that they should endeavour to teach their members how to make wealth as children of God, that is by exposing the believers to what the scripture says about prosperity and how to apply it to their daily life. “I mean that those men and women of our Great God who have arrived. The next omitted word in the above comment is to ‘enable’ them start up small-scale businesses or so.”