ABUJA – After weeks of delay and postponements, the All Progressives Congress, (APC) on Monday commenced the screening of the party’s presidential aspirants ahead of their presidential primary schedule for 6-8 June 2022. Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, a former chairman of the screening committee sitting at Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja, has fixed the exercise to last for two days with 12 of the aspirants taking their turn on Monday, May 30, 2022. The aspirants had had their documents vetted last by the legal department of the party before the screening. -Advertisement- Some of those screened on Monday include Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba who has distinguished himself as the first to purchase and return the nomination form. He also providentially turned up to be screened first. Others that went through the exercise include Rt Hon Rotimi Amaechi, Rev Tunde Bakare, David Umahi, Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Ken Nnamani, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Uju Kennedy Ohanenye, Felix Nicholas, Sani Yerima, Ajayi Borofice The party screening was earlier scheduled for May 23, 2022, but indefinitely postponed by the Adamu led National Working Committee (NWC). However, journalists were not allowed access into the hall of Transcorps Hilton where the screening is ongoing our correspondent gathered that a former Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Mrs Uju Ohaneyne, the only woman aspirant and Ajayi Borofice were the first to be screened, both, declining to speak with journalists when they were out of the screening hall. Notably, the noise about the participation of former President Goodluck Jonathan failed to materialize as he was not listed among the Aspirants. POLL Salihu Lukman, APC national vice chairman north-west said as far as the leadership of the party is concerned, the former president was not even under consideration as the presidential candidate of the party. Lukman told journalists that Jonathan was not qualified to be the presidential candidate of APC. “There are clear guidelines in terms of how individual members of the party qualified to emerge as candidates of the party. One, through the sale of nomination forms. “Assuming Jonathan claimed to be a member of the party, he has not bought the forms to the best of our knowledge. How do you come from the back door? “Secondly, as far as our memory can recall, the party became popular on the basis of the campaign against the bad governance of Jonathan and nothing has changed that we can now say has qualified him to emerge as the arrowhead of our campaign in 2023. “As far as I am concerned, these two reasons disqualified Jonathan from even aspiring to become the candidate of the party. I don’t know where he is coming from. Unfortunately, in this country, where there is the mentality that everything is possible, it must be clearly stated that as far as the leadership of the party is concerned, the person of Jonathan can’t be under consideration. The screening exercise continues Tuesday.