The 1991 set of Holy Ghost College Owerri Old Boys has donated to their Alma Mata a befitting modern kitchen, which they built. At a well-attended event that took place at the school premises recently, the 1991 set of the school’s old boys said their desire to build the facility was to give back to the school that prepared them for what they are now. Speaking during the donation, Mr Enyinna Onyeukwu, Chairman of the 1991 set of the Old Boys Association of Holy Ghost College Owerri, said they were at their Alma Mata to give back to the school what it gave to them many years ago which has gone a long way to make them successful in their various fields. Onyeukwu said it was gratifying to give back to Holy Ghost College in appreciation for what the school did for them. The project committee Chairman, Mr Henry Iberi expressed his joy on the successful completion of the project and his satisfaction with the quality of work done by the contractor. Echoing similar sentiment, Hon. Samuel Obodo, the Public Relations officer of the 1991 set of the Old Boys, appreciated the school for preparing them for today’s challenges. Appreciating the 1991 set of the school’s Old Boys Association, the principal of the school, Reverend Father Samuel Agu, commended the 1991 set of the old boys for the gesture. At the unveiling of the modern kitchen which was performed by the Most Rev. Dr Moses Chikwe, the Auxiliary Bishop of Owerri Archdiocese, the Principal challenged both individuals, corporate bodies, as well as old students of the school at both the chapters and national levels, to rise up to the challenges of building projects in the school for “Our children to come and have conducive teaching and learning environment. POLL He said further: “Sincerely we are very much grateful to the Holy Ghost College Owerri Old Boys, especially the 1991 set for this state-of-the-art ultra modern kitchen,” he noted. The Principal thanked the Archbishop for finding time to come and inaugurate the project, even as he blessed the 1991 set of the Old Boys Association, praying that they would continually grow in their endeavours.