Talk about the terrible thing that resulted from Chrisland Schools’ unfortunate excursion (as in jaunt or tour) to Dubai and many Nigerians would chuckle and pronounce one inanity resembling the shame of child sex, the failure of schools or parents, and any of such things. Yet, the tragedy which befell the nation is decidedly worse than that. What do I mean? I mean that the evil from this scandal is multi-dimensional but the effect comes to this: it is the first time a pornographic video has gone national in Nigeria. It was and is everywhere. It went mainstream. I would be surprised if it didn’t trend in the Parents-Teachers Association, Christian Mothers and Fathers Associations, and other religious parents’ WhatsApp group platforms. And children and students watched it freely. It would take years before Nigeria will ever be able to evaluate the effect on the country. For all I know, this may have brought pornography mainstream in Nigeria! And that makes peoples’ reactions to the scandal important. Of all the opinions I read on the Chrisland School, the World School Sports and the Dubai juvenal sex scandal, I will say that Mr. Azu Ishiekwene’s (in “Chrisland’s Dubai Five and Our Digital Footprints” published in Leadership newspapers of April 21, 2022) attempted the most to put things in some intriguing perspectives. He called the sorry act of the Dubai Five an “orgy” – and that was exactly what it was. He also blamed the parents of those involved and all the other parents at large – and he would be right, for Nigeria has degenerated morally largely owing to parental failure. Nigeria may even be worse than hell now. Yet, like other Nigerian journalists, including those who covered the useless celebrative activities the schools which sent their children to Dubai showcased, to fete their student champions, even left some very important questions unattended to, especially pertaining to the school. I brought in Ishiekwene’s name here because he made some untenable claims concerning the issue at hand. For instance, he wrote: “If our parents had the benefit of smartphones to scrutinise and monitor us at school and play, would they have seen something dramatically different in our secret lives from what we see in the Dubai Five today”? My reply: Dear Azu Ishiekwene, that is disingenuous because we are not talking about 16, 18, and 20-year-olds primed on, and being fired by, hormones as secondary school students were generally older in the past. There may have been instances of students being “caught” in compromising sexual relations, but those unfortunates faced easy and instant expulsion. There might have been cases of rape, too, but the perpetrators where lashed with the cane before they were expelled from school. And if we remember that we are talking about 10-year-olds here, that should scream that Ishiekwene’s position is faulty. Though I grant that sexual development could begin early in some individuals, and so a girl of ten could actually have reached puberty, the average 10-year-old is usually classified as being in the pre-puberty stage. Most of all, the onset of puberty does not mean that a person has become sexually active. There is always maturation, for goodness sake. So, people of the past generations would not have left behind any digital or analogue prints as sordid as those left behind by Chrisland School’s Dubai Five simply because people did not generally become sexually active at age 10. Even now, such is still a deviant behaviour in any society. Even in the US where smartphone usage density is more than in Nigeria, “Among teen females aged 15-19, 42% had ever had sex, and among teen males, the percent was 44%”. That came from a US National Center for Health Statistics report of 22 June 2017. POLL Ishiekwene wrote: “We should be shocked and outraged and sad that out of 76 children who went on a weeklong sport competition, what we’re being reminded of is not the laurels they competed for or the strides made but a video that reminds us of how disastrously we’re failing in our duties as schools and parents”. My reply: Really? Did they actually go to Dubai for any competition? Why are Nigerians so easy to deceive? Anyone should first qualify from somewhere to be able to represent some entity. For instance, what really does the World School Games title stand for? Is it really a competition or a feel-good event, an expensive but inconsequential gathering of children that holds no meaning apart from the bragging rights the trips could confer? In one of such gatherings organised by one of the schools involved in the Dubai trip, I saw some men and women who were honoured as sponsors of that hardly useful and non-competition, and wondered if they knew the exact nature of the jamboree they sponsored? And I thought seriously about Nigeria? Why do we fall for inanities? The Dubai event was no Mathematics Olympiad for school children. It was no Science Olympiad. It was no Age-grade Spelling Bee. Even as sports competitions go, it was no sports competition in the sense that in real sports competitions, you would emerge a champion from other competitions before you would qualify to represent your country at the world stage. A fool and his money, they say, are soon parted – so let that be with Nigeria. What kind of a competition is he so-called Word School Games? How global is it? How many athletes did Nigeria send to the last Olympics for just one school, Chrisland, to have sent some 75 students to that Dubai jamboree which turned awry? Please, google World School Games and you would hardly see the history of the competition and the faces behind it, but every step of the way, you will be asked to sign in for the next competition as though all that matters is the money you pay. Perhaps, that is all that matters to those behind the scheme. And in Nigeria, they have a nation of unquestioning clients, if not a nation of fools. Get on their website and one of the things you will see is the testimony of some five persons who had attended the Games. Out of the five persons showcased there, two are Nigerians. And check the list of the best achieving schools in this year’s competition, two Nigerian schools are listed as first and second. And yet check for, say, the time the winner in the one hundred or two hundred posted at the games, and you won’t find it. Perhaps, it would be best to change the name of the games to a more fitting one: excursion. The Basketball event was held in Abu Dhabi. Football held in Barcelona, Netball in Loughborough University, in the United Kingdom, “Swim” (sic) (that is exactly what I saw on their website) and not swimming, will be held in London from 20 – 22 May. So, it is likely that even the Chrisland School may be preparing for another excursion to the City of London, after that of Dubia; after all, May is still ahead. What makes any of such competitions special? Nobody has explained it, except that the parents of the children who are in some schools such as Chrisland could afford to pay for the trip. What qualified the students to even represent themselves let alone representing their schools or states or Nigeria? Sometimes, this nonsense would begin to sound like 419. One of the competitions is the World Schools Football Cup. Nigerians remember that Christ the King’s College (CKC) Onitsha emerged the World Secondary School’s Football champions in 1977. To qualify to fly Nigeria’s flag in that competition, it first emerged East Central State champion and represented that state in a competition organized nationally and emerged champion of Nigeria before it went on to represent Nigeria. Yet other Nigerian schools, apart from Chrisland, were there; Children’s International School, CIS, Lekki. A stupid report on the school’s celebration after the competition contained this: “A parent of the school for eight years who also doubles as the Parent Teachers Association Chairperson, Winifred Mena- Ajakpovi, expressed her gratitude to the school management for the success of the sporting event.” “Parent of the school”? Well, a terrible event deserves terrible reporting. Oh, I nearly forgot that Ishiekwene, one of the leading lights of Nigerian journalism, added: “The school has explained that it went to extraordinary lengths to keep the children safe and away from mischief. That it kept them seven floors apart in the Dubai hotel where they were lodged.” Dear reader, we all know that boys and girls are not only housed in different hostels but boys are not allowed into girls’ hostels and vice versa. So, if what keeps each gender from the other’s hostel was not enforced for the students in Dubai, then the school failed in its duties. And nobody has told us when that sexual liaison took place; during the day or night? And nobody has explained whether the teacher who was supposed to be watching the boys or who was supposed to be chaperoning the girl at that forbidden moment failed in his or her duties. But Ishiekwene still expects me to applaud the Chrisland school. That group of boys were kept on a floor different from where girls were housed is hardly a reason not to ask if Chrisland School was culpable in the shameful event that occurred or not. Questions need to be asked and answers need to be given. So far, the right questions have not been asked, even by our leading lights, and the right answers have not been provided – even by schools that promote global junketing for footloose teachers and pupils (and perhaps parents). The organisers of the World School Games would be dancing to the bank. Nigeria must be the place where they have struck gold. Just as our forebears sold their kins into slavery for trinkets and looking glasses, Nigerian schools are queuing to attend a not-veryuseful event in Dubai. Ah, that it is staged in Dubai appears to be all that matters. And any school that can afford the fees will be accommodated. By the way, in which sporting event did the members of the Chrisland School Dubai Five take part in? And it is possible that even now, Chrisland School is already preparing for next year’s show in Dubai. It has now become the new way of rating private schools: “Hey, has the school attended the World School Games in Dubai?” Some parents will begin to ask before allowing their children to attend a private secondary school? Ah, our “mumu” (stupidity?) continues unchecked.