P/HARCOURT – The Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA), has ended its one day Extra Ordinary General Meeting (EGM) with the election of Mr. Silas Igwe as the new Auditor of the Chamber while Chief Nabil Saleh, immediate past President was bestowed with Honourary Life Vice President of PHCCIMA. Addressing the EGM, the President of PHCCIMA, Sir Mike Elechi, explained that participants at the meeting were financial members whose financial records were up date, adding that his administration came on board seven months ago, hence the need for an extra ordinary general meeting to address pertinent issues that will help access his administration’s performance. The PHCCIMA President revealed that in accordance with the laydown rules of the Chamber, he and his exco have thought it wise to honour the immediate past President, Chief Nabil Saleh as Honourary Life Vice President of PHCCIMA, adding that Saleh’s contributions to the growth and development of the Chamber were numerous, including securing the present Chamber Secretariat which was part of the legacies handed over to him just as he described his tenure as among the best period of PHCCIMA. -Advertisement- He also used the occasion to congratulate Chief, Dr. Emi Membere-Otaji, HLVP of PHCCIMA and NVP of NACCIMA on his National Productivity Order of Merits Award conferred on him by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, saying that it was an honour not only for him (Emi), but also a credit to the PHCCIMA family and urged the younger Entrepreneurs to strive harder for more results. Elechi, however, drew the attention of the House to the vacuum created as a result of absence of the Chamber’s Auditor from all chambers activities including the performance of his official functions and the urgent need to elect his replacement which was approved by the house through a motion sponsored by Dr. Maraizu Uche, Chairman Economic and Commercial Trade Group and supported by Barr. Innocent Amah an Elected Council member which subsequently saw the emergence of Mr. Silas Igwe, the Managing Partner of S. O. Igwe & Co. Chartered Accountants as the new Auditor of PHCCIMA. In his acceptance speech, the new Chamber Auditor promised to discharge his duties diligently and add value to the Chamber. In his speech, the immediate past President of PHCCIMA, Chief Nabil Saleh, who also is the Honourary Live Vice President of NACCIMA thanked Sir Mike Elechi and his team for the honour and recognition and promised to always be there for the new administration, as the IPP . High point of the EGM was the investiture and presentation of certificates of honour to Chief Nabil Saleh by the Chamber President, Sir Mike Elechi and the President of South East, South-South Chambers of Commerce and former NVP of NACCIMA and HLVP of PHCCIMA Dr. Hyke Ochia. POLL Other Exco members present at the meeting include, the 1st Deputy President, Dr. Chinyere Nwoga, 2nd Deputy President, Hon. Prince Charles Beke, Treasurer, Surveyor Emmanuel Ogbonda, Financial Secretary, Sir Dan Harrison, Publicity Secretary, Pastor Uche Onochie, other past Presidents present were former NVP of NACCIMA and HLVP of PHCCIMA, Dr. Prince Billy Gillis-Harry, HLVP of PHCCIMA, Dr. Vincent Furo and HLVP of PHCCIMA Dr. Emeka Unachukwu, Elected Council members present were Barr. Innocent Amah, Chief Emeka Ezekwe and Mrs. Florence Nwosibe, and Trade Groups Chairmen and other distinguished members of the Chamber, and the Director General, Mr. Erasmus Chukunda.