EMMANUEL OBETA Channels Decisions will be the next area of major concentration. The critical factors in making channel decisions are the channels of communication that has the highest reach as well as resonance with your identified target group. -Advertisement- Different channels and communication platforms come with a lot of costs and as such cannot be chosen based on a feel-good kind or scenario, but basically from the point of the expected dividends, returns or contributions that each of these channels will yield to the campaign. So, reach, level of engagement, cost as well as audience preference are the most essential factors in selecting or considering a particular channel to use. Where will your content and messaging be distributed? Several channels also differ based on their industry ratings, profile as well as prestige such that the utilization of such channels though more expensive will add some more reputation or pedigree to your brand and will consequently result in other channels being willing to carry or use the same information. Planning and scheduling your campaign will be the next step of the marketing campaign. Different essential parts of the campaign that often times are created across different agencies involving different kinds of professionals, locations and teams needs to be synchronised and properly aligned to achieve the impact of the campaign. For instance, the Coca Cola share a coke campaign was a global campaign with many moving parts, multiple media platforms, and new workflows involving partners across 80 different nations. Original contents in multiple languages and formats, including print and TV ads, billboards, SMS messaging, websites, and social media were developed for the campaign. POLL According to Daniel Codella (2018), executives, marketing, legal, design, product, and operations teams collaborated on everything from finding the exact shade of red ink for the labels to building the list of words that would be banned from bottles. A new typeface was designed to prevent any problems with trademarks and intellectual property. 150 submissions were made to marketing for approvals, 25 risk assessment meetings were held, 4,000 hours of talking to stakeholders took place in the course of planning for the campaign, there were 225 trademark searches, 40 hours spent identifying the right shade of red ink, 2,302 original artworks were submitted and evaluated in the course of and as a part of the campaign planning, 303,669 types of point of sale pieces were produced while 5,287 words that would be blocked from the labels were agreed upon. Planning, scheduling and executing the campaign will therefore involve identifying the various teams that will collaborate to make the campaign a reality, agreeing or working out a workflow that will enable them collaborate in achieving the campaign objectives, assigning duties and responsibilities, monitoring, approving and evaluating the work load of each team as well as providing the required logistic support and framework for the actualisation of the campaign. Budgeting, funding and monitoring of budget compliance and variations are also an essential part of this process. Monitoring and evaluation should be the last stage of the marketing campaign, while the campaign is on-going so as to ensure that the objective of the campaign is being achieved. Monitoring gives you the opportunity to self-correct while the campaign is still on-going or to steer the ship in the right direction while on motion before it docks at the harbour. Evaluation on the other hand is a post event scenario where you systematically analyse what went on or happened so as to glean some learnings that will provide a guide to future experience or occurrence. It is usually too late to correct or amend anything with regards to the current campaign at the point of evaluation but the exercise can provide a huge learning for future events and activities. Part of the procedures involved in monitoring the on-going campaign is to set up a process or procedure of getting online possibly real time information about the campaign, its impact, the kinds of customers that are responding and the kind of response that they are providing. For social media or digital, online campaigns these reports are easier to obtain due to either Google or Facebook analytics that can provide you with all manner of information and feedbacks. The various collaborating units in the campaign should have it as part of their key deliverables to provide regular information and updates on their own segments of the activities both sales, marketing, production/ operations, logistics, social media agencies, advertising/ outdoor agencies which will all be fed into a common platform and adequately analysed to give information on the current state of things with regards to the campaign. Different Kinds of Marketing Campaigns Product Marketing Campaign Product marketing according Hubspot is focused on driving demand for and adoption of a product among existing customers. It involves understanding the product’s target audience and using strategic positioning and messaging to boost revenue and demand for the product. It is focused on the steps people take to purchase your product so product marketers can build campaigns to support this work. It lies at the centre of the business’s marketing, sales and the product team and covers the launch and execution side of a product in addition to the marketing strategy for the product. Product marketing seeks to position the product as the best alternative for meeting the customer’s need based on its deep understanding of the product, the competitors as well as the need of the customer the basis of which it uses to differentiate and position itself through a strategy that best reaches and resonates with the customer. One of the major functions of product marketing is to provide as much information and interaction points with the customers that will be essential in their decision-making process to patronize the product. Product Marketing as important as it is, is just an aspect of the whole gamut of marketing. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com