Prince Adewole Adebayo is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). In this interview with AKINWUNMI KING, he dwells on his chances at the polls, rule of law in the country, and finding a solution to Nigeria’s leadership crisis. Excerpts: Given that you are a lawyer, what is your impression of the rule of law in Nigeria? There is no rule of law yet in this country. There is only the rule of persons. Let me give you the benchmark. When there is rule of law, it will not be affected by a change of government because rule of law is where the law is no longer in the hands of the government to enforce. There is rule of law when a police constable can send a note to the president in the council through the security stating that they want to arrest the Attorney General because he knocked somebody down with his car on the way to the council meeting. That is when you have the rule of law. That is to say, the institutions of the state, like the police and all others, are free from government interference. As such, when I am in government, I fear the police as much as the man who is selling oranges on the street. That is the journey we need to embark on, but we need to define it well. We will get there. -Advertisement- No doubt, you are a very successful businessman, but do you agree with those who insist that you must have experience in governance before joining politics? It is a fact that I do not have any experience in bad governance. So, I have not been part of those who have been misgoverning the country. So, that lack of experience in doing bad things, I admit, I don’t have. However, when you want to make a decision in the public sector, the only difference is that the money doesn’t belong to you, it belongs to the people. Everything you do in the managerial field both in the private and public sector, they are the same. If I am managing a business concern as a businessman, it is the same principle as that of a public business, the only difference is that profit interest or motive is downplayed, but if I need to provide electricity, I need to provide it. It doesn’t matter if I am in government or outside. Leadership in public service is not about forming an alliance. If you are a minister in charge of housing and people don’t have housing, you cannot come and say I was a minister, I have experience. No, you can only say you had an opportunity to serve and you failed. If you are a governor, and you spent eight years and bankrupted the state, you cannot say you have experience in managing a state. No, you will say, I was given an opportunity to manage a state, I mismanaged it. You can only be good at it if you have been good at it. I have represented and advised the government. I have consulted for the government, Nigeria, and Overseas. Let me say what can happen to you if you have no government experience, you will come to an environment, you won’t know how decisions are made, but that’s not my case. If you ask me when it comes to every critical aspect in terms of security, it will surprise you to know that I know more about the strength of the military and the challenges they face than the Commander-in-Chief (CIC), who is in charge of them, but who doesn’t listen to them. In this country, people outside have more defence and security intelligence than the people inside the government. What inspires you to keep going knowing that you might not win the election? First, we have problems that are human problems. There are no natural problems. There are some countries where their problems are natural, not caused by humans. I lived in California for many years. In Nigeria, we don’t have natural problems. The whole idea of economics with all the books written on economics is based on the principle of scarcity. That is an environment of scarce resources. You have to make economic choices in Nigeria. Every developmental resource that we need is in abundance. There is no scarcity of human beings. There are some countries that want to develop, and they have to import labour, we don’t have to. They have to import food, we don’t have to. They have to import water, we don’t have to. The whole geopolitics of Europe has to import gas, and that’s why everybody’s looking towards Russia and Ukraine. We don’t have any of this. So, it goes down to one thing that we have a leadership problem. Now, if you address that leadership problem, then you have solved all our problems. Now, what do you do about leadership? To change the leadership, you have to expand the leadership pool. You can’t have 30 people who for 60 years choose themselves to become the leaders of the country and have failed. When you have done it and failed, and people have forgotten your errors, they wait for some years and come back again. What then is the solution you are bringing? POLL What you can do if you want to change the country and knowing that leadership is the problem is to put more people into the leadership pool. How do you do that? You put them into politics. You test their understanding of the issues in the country, and they can start providing solutions to them. You look at where they worked, were they good workers? When they went into business, were they ethical? When they went into public service, were they efficient and patriotic? Then you test them on whether they understand the issues at stake today. If you put all that together, then you can now choose them as a leader because you have nothing to lose. There’s no head of state that can honestly say I have not sent something by way of advice, but it’s not that they don’t know what is right. The issue is that what is right has a price. That price requires selflessness, not the traditional way we presently operate where when I am in power, I share the resources of the country among my friends. The old boy’s network. I cover their errors and I reserve a position for your children and you reserve for my children. And if they are competent or not, we don’t care. All these things are the reason why we are not progressing. It’s not that our problems defy human nature. No. If you go to government offices, as I do on many occasions, you will see that the person elected as a governor or president may spend a substantial hour of the day not even doing the people’s business, he may be with his party chairman, discussing party issues. So they don’t have time to do the work. So it is not that our problems are so complicated that we are always in the church and in the mosque, round the clock, praying for divine intervention. You don’t need divine intervention to clean your room if you have a broom. But if you don’t want to do it, you can’t be looking for divine intervention. Your party does not control a state in Nigeria, will this not reduce your chances of winning? The way our republic is fashioned is that you come out in public to state your belief, you don’t wedge on which party should I join or if they are bad people or if their policies are not good, where can I win? No, you go out and say we have a new perspective on the problems of the country. The platform can be for your fellow citizens so that we can share ideas first, then, when we share advice, we can now formulate a platform, which we can present to the people, it is now left for the people to see that the platform is credible. If you are going to vote, there is no law that says you cannot vote for a party that is new. In Ekiti State, for example, SDP is the leading party there. The truth is that at any point in time, Nigerians just have to open their minds to one thing, which is, let us allow for fresh ideas and let us see whether this person can actually run a government. One of the ways you can know if a person can run the government is that you allow them to run a party and run a campaign. So, watch us as we run our campaign, we have a nine months period to make our case to the public. So, by Christmas time, by January, you will know whether we have explained to you why you can put your faith in our offer. I’m tired of people saying we don’t have alternatives when you ask them why they don’t vote. Now, we are giving you the alternative. At the end of it, you will now decide whether the alternative is viable or not.