Anengi Barasua is the chairman, Bonny Local Government Council of Rivers State. The only female local government chairman in Rivers State, in this interview with JULIET OYOYO, speaks on Governor Nyesom Wike’s presidential ambition , development in the state and other issues. Excerpts: As the only female chairperson from Rivers state, South-south Nigeria, what are the challenges you are facing, considering your gender? Naturally, women have to do more than the required for their voices to be heard. That is the same challenge that I am facing. For every other thing that my male counterparts will do, you will have to do double to be able to scale through. Other than that, there is no difficulty in it. All you need is your confidence and intellect and also, know that you are a woman in leadership position. However, it is important to note that, your being in such position does not mean that the men cannot do it. It is just that the political terrain is for both genders. It is just for you to go about your business and do what you are supposed to do and work as a team with your other male counterparts. -Advertisement- Therefore, I do not see any challenge that is extraordinary because I am a woman aside the one that we have to go the extra, to achieve what we have to achieve for our voices to be heard. However, that does not mean that you should feel that because you are a woman, you are less intelligent or, that because you are a woman, you should be seen as being weak, or not strong enough to handle the issues of leadership. It is not true. There have been calls for women all over the country to participate in politics and in the same vein, a lot of these women want to believe that political positions and offices should be given to them on a platter of gold. What is your opinion? Do you agree with that line of thinking? Concerning the call for local government autonomy, we have it on good authority that some of the governors have been scuttling this move. What will you say about your state governor, Barrister Nyesom Wike, is he in agreement with local government autonomy? Because we heard that some state governors use the local government funds to do other things. How will you react? Since I came onboard, my governor has not directed me to divert funds for any reason or the other. Barrister Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, my Governor, has given us the liberty to function on our own capacity and take decisions on our own capacity and run the administration at the local government level as we deem fit. Therefore, I am not aware of governors asking local government chairmen for any funds. It has not happened to me and as such, cannot give any account to that effect. POLL Lastly, Governor Wike is coming to contest for the ‘Office of the President, Federal Republic of Nigeria’, do you think he will be able to deliver and, what makes you think that he will be able to make a good president? Consider that, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has thrown open, the contest to every interested person, north and south. Chief Barrister Nyesom Wike has been twice, an elected local government chairman, where he performed tremendously well, he served as the Chief of Staff of Rivers state and he carried out his assigned duties, in the most judicious manner. He was a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and served dutifully and a duly elected governor of the state for two consecutive terms wherein, he has changed the narratives of Rivers state. With these sound leadership experiences and expertise, he stands a better chance to rule Nigeria and take the country to that level which Nigerians has always desired.