LAGOS – Determined to reform the transport system in the state and in line with the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s THEMES Agenda, the Ministry of Transportation has unveiled plans to deploy the use of technology for effective movement. The Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, disclosed this in Alausa, Ikeja, on Monday during a media briefing on the maiden edition of National Transport Technology Conference and Exhibition (NTTCE), scheduled to hold in Lagos between June 7 and 8, 2022. The two-day event, according to Oladeinde, set to hold at Eko Hotels and Suites, is organised by the Nigeria Transport Commissioners Forum, under the support of the Federal Ministry of Transportation and will feature transport technology and investment opportunities in line with world best practice. -Advertisement- He noted that key decision makers, experts and operators in the road, rail, water and air transport sectors, will be in attendance to discuss the current and emerging trends in the smart transportation infrastructure, as well as fashion out ways of integrating them into the Nigerian transportation space. “Discussions geared towards improving efficiency and sustainability of transport technology solutions in Nigeria for proper implementation and development with other tropical issues will be clearly highlighted at the conference,” the Commissioner stated. Oladeinde said that search light will be beamed on the road transportation sector, which is perceived to have been ignored, solutions will be proffered to issues faced daily by the operators and users alike. Also, challenges, which include but not limited to traffic congestion, road accident, parking problems and environmental pollution will also be critically analysed. Panelists drawn across the sector will examine the theme, ‘Multimodality and Accessibility- achieving a greener transport system in Nigeria”, of which Governor Sanwo-Olu will be participating as a member, while it will be chaired by the Minister of State for Transport, Senator Gbemisola Saraki. POLL He said: “We believe strongly that the coming together under the same umbrella of all Commissioners for Transport nationwide will give a better avenue for seamless implementation for resolutions reached at the conference. “Additionally, leading manufacturers and provider of transport technology solutions will also be showcasing the latest and future-proved transport technology solutions at this first of its kind transport fair, as well as a gala and industry award night to ramp up the two-day event. Oladeinde, therefore, sought the collaboration of all stakeholders at ensuring that this event gains maximum publicity and a successful hosting by the Smart City Lagos.