Immediate past Akwa Ibom Commissioner for Special Duties, Okpolupm Etteh, House of Assembly member for Nsit Atai, Mark Esset and the immediate past Commissioner for Agriculture, Glory Edet have emerged PDP Flag Bearers for the House of Representatives. Also to represent the party in same capacity at the primaries conducted across the state on Sunday evening is a former member of the House of Assembly, Mr Ime Okon who polled 62 Votes flooring other contenders to the position. Others who emerged as at time of filling this report include; Mr Unyime Idem for Ukanafun/ Oruk Anam Federal Constituency, Idongesit Ntekpere for Ikot Ekpene/Obot Akara/ Essien Udim, Aniekan UmanahAbak/ Etim Ekpo/ Ika and Paul Ekpo for Etinan/ Nsit Ubium/ Nsit Ibom Federal Constituencies. -Advertisement- The primaries conducted for the 31 Local government areas for the state House of Assembly also saw to the emergence of Prince Akpabio for Essien Udim, Udeme Otong- Abak, Udofia Friday Udobia – Esit Eket/Ibeno, Eric Akpan- Nsit Ibom, Mfon Idung- Etim Ekpo/Ika and Uwemedimo Asuquo – Uyo. Other LGAs and their flag bearers include; Ibiono Ibom: -Godwin Ekpo, Ikot Ekpene/ Obot Akara: Mr Jerry OtuONNA: Sunny Johnny, Nsit Atai: Prince Aniefiok AttahNsit Ubium: Hon Barr Otobong Bob, Ukanafun: Emem Udom, Itu: Hon KufreAbasi EdidemOron/ Udung Uko: Hon Mrs Kenim Onofiok, Uruan; Dr Itoro Etim, INI: Hon Lawrence Udoide, Etinan: Uduak Ekpo-Ufot Also to represent the party for the statehouse include: Ikono: Itoro Columba, Ibesikpo Asutan: Ubong Attah, Okobo: Pius Bassey, Mkpat Eninwem Imo-Ita, Oruk Anam:Prince Sampson Idiong, Urue Offong/Oruko – Precious Selong. Addressing newsmen shortly after the primaries, two of the candidates for Onna and Nsit Ubium state constituencies, Sunny Johnny and Otobong Bob respectively commended the delegates for seeing them to success and pledged to ensure victory for PDP at the general elections. It could be recalled that the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State, Mr Aniekan Akpan had assured aspirants on the party’s platform of a free, fair and transparent primary election ahead of the 2023 general elections. POLL Akpan who gave the assurance in a chat with newsmen before the primaries declared PDP one united family in the state. “The primary election will be very open and transparent. There’s going to be voting. The national Secretariat is coming. everybody is going to the field. The delegates are known delegates. And the party guideline is very clear. The guideline says it has to be taken to the various constituencies. “We have made an arrangement to ensure that whatever is being taken from here (party secretariat) will get to each constituency. It will be a contest of brothers and sisters, a family affair. And we have appealed to everybody that there should be no rancour”. he said Our correspondent reports that only the recently elected adhoc delegates were permitted to vote during the exercise.