ABUJA – As the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) moves to actualize the Abuja Master Plan, Hon. Micah Jiba, the member representing AMAC/Bwari Federal Constituency, has stated that there is a need to look into the Abuja resettlement and compensation policy in order for it to be done properly. Jiba said this while speaking with journalists over the weekend about his work in the National Assembly to find solutions to the issue of Abuja residents who have been subjected to a succession of demolitions. According to him: “The bill on Compensation and Resettlement of Abuja Original Inhabitants is currently before the House of Representatives and it aims to address the territory’s Resettlement and Compensation issues. -Advertisement- “The second reading and if it scales through the third reading, it would address most of the anomalies in the present resettlement and compensation policy and ensure that no native of the FCT would be wrongly displayed from his original homes without proper compensation and resettlement. “The bill on resettlement and compensation argued that before the relocation of the nation’s capital to FCT in 1976, there were already original inhabitants of the area. “In the next 100 years to come, they will not go anywhere. They will remain here. Therefore, the issue of resettlement and compensation needs to be done adequately because they are here. It is also at the second reading and I will continue to do my best to ensure that the bill sees the light of the day,” he said. The lawmaker, who was a former two-term Executive Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), also revealed that he was able to sponsor three bills on education, the mayoral status of the FCT His words: “I have moved about seven to eight motions at the House on issues affecting the FCT. We all know the bills and motions are not the same. So far in my three years as a member of the House of Representatives representing AMAC and Bwari Federal Constituency, I have gotten almost three bills at the National Assembly. POLL “One is on the issue of the conversion of the Federal Technical College, Orozo, to Federal Polytechnic and it has gone for public hearing at the Senate. If not because we are on recess now, it is also waiting for a public hearing at the House of Representatives. “On the issue of the project, we have many Constituency projects ongoing. I have done many projects at Bwari Area Council which you can go and verify. We have built many primary schools and renovated others, provided boreholes, solar energy, and many more at Bwari area council,” he said.