LAGOS – Head coach Jose Pe­seiro has admitted that the Super Ea­gles played terribly in the first half of their friendly match against Mexico’s El Tri because of a fault in the team’s set-up. Mexico humbled Nigeria 2-1 inside the AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas, in the early hours of Sunday. Peseiro, a big fan of the 3-5- 2 formation, deployed the trio of Chidozie Awaziem, William Troost-Ekong, and Semi Ajayi at the heart of the defence flank­ing them with wing-backs Mo­ses Simon and Calvin Bassey. -Advertisement- But Peseiro admits he liked his side’s second-half perfor­mance more than the first, not­ing the reasoning behind his change of tactics. “We cannot hide it; we played a very bad first half,” Peseiro told ESPN.We had five players in defence, and they had two players playing forward and the two players controlled the five. They were pressing and we did not solve it. We cannot have that. “We decided that if the two was controlling the three, then we have to make it a four and have more control in midfield. “And it helped us take con­trol of the game because as a coach, my philosophy is that I like control, to control the game,” he said. The set-up failed spectacular­ly as Mexico found joy through the Super Eagles’ midfield, blunted the Nigerian attack, and created the better chances, taking the lead in the 12th min­ute through Santiago Gimenez. POLL The Super Eagles did not muster a single shot on target in that opening half. However, a change of strat­egy to a back four and anoth­er four in midfield, however, improved the Super Eagles’ fortunes, with Feyenoord’s for­ward Cyriel Dessers heading home Nigeria’s equaliser min­utes into the second half. An unfortunate Troost- Ekong own-goal handed re­turned the advantage to Mex­ico and sealed their second consecutive victory over the West Africans. Meanwhile, the Super Ea­gles will next face Ecuador in the second of two friendly matches in the United States before returning to Nigeria for two AFCON-qualifying games against Sierra Leone and Mau­ritius in June. Peseiro is the first Super Eagles coach in almost three decades to lose his first game in charge.