The Nigerian Red Cross Society in Anambra State has said that governments at all levels have not treated the issue of Banditry and insecurity with the seriousness it deserved. Addressing the press during this year’s World Red Cross Day with the title:’Be Human Kind to Achieve Enduring Truce’, the state chairman of the society, Professor Peter Emeka Katchy said since President Muhammadu Buhari and state governors took an oath of office to protect life and property, there ought no to be such thing as banditry and unknown gunmen. According to him, there is a law regulating firearms in Nigeria and every young man has a parent and so he does not see how governments cannot fish out bandits and unknown gunmen. -Advertisement- “If you swear an oath of office to protect life and property and you continue to pay the ransom, you should resign. There is a lot of pretence in the country”, Katchy added. In his address at the occasion, Katchy said that finding truce in crisis situations is the imperative of human kindness and peace lamenting that “the miserable loud wailing all over the nation sequel to wanton killings and kidnappings of people all over Nigeria is a terrible concern,  extreme worry, fear, fright and trepidation. This particular situation has drastically reduced human value and has decimated humanity”. He pleaded with Nigerians to be involved in the campaign banner, ” Be humankind to achieve truce and peace so as to reduce fighting,  struggling or arguing for certain issues. He traced the origin of the International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) and that World Red Cross Day is celebrated on the birthday of the founder Sir Jean Henry Dunant who lived between 1828 and 1910. He said that Red Cross Society is open to all and depends on the benevolence of all who are filled with the milk of human kindness to achieve its desired objectives. The occasion was chaired by the former Chief Judge of Anambra State Hon. Justice Paul Obidigwe is also a life member. He thanked the media for their support in the affairs of the society.  Katchy also commended the Anambra people for a peaceful gubernatorial election in 2021 and for being law-abiding. POLL The occasion featured honorary awards to many journalists for their contribution to ensuring peace in the society # Photo: Katchy 3rd from left in Red Cross cap