In the last few months there have been repeated calls for either Gov­ernment of National Unity (GNU) or an Interim National Govern­ment (ING) from prominent Nigerians or groups. As recently as April 27, 2022, the Yoruba socio-cultural organization, Afenefere, called for a GNU, citing the precarious situation in the country and the inability of the Muhammadu Bu­hari-led government to tackle it. But the call for a non-democratic order, of whatever hue, is a wish for an alterna­tive that is potentially dangerous even though promising, in the light of the well-known attempt we have made at such political contraption. But to recall Afenifere’s position, here is their argument: “The situation in the country is in a more decisive manner. In view of the seriousness of the situ­ation and considering the fact that the present administration under President Muhammadu Buhari has shown that it is incapable and unwilling to tackle the identified problems, Afenifere hereby strongly advocates for a Government of National Unity. Such a Government of National Unity is to tackle the insecurity problems and midwife a new democratic government.” Afenifere’s call is similar to the one made by the legal luminary, Chief Afe Babalola, who suggested that the 2023 general elections be suspended while an interim government be instituted at the end of Buhari’s tenure in May, 2023. Chief Babalola, who happens to be the founder of Afe Babalola University, pro­posed that the interim government be in office for six months to chart a new constitutional course for Nigeria. -Advertisement- Both suggestions above acknowledge the importance of completing the 2019 – 2023 political circle and the establish­ment of a non-partisan transitional gov­ernment. We have been on this journey of crying for a non-democratic govern­ment that would reform Nigeria’s cash-and-carry democracy and distorted polit­ical system for quite a long time now, but I think that attractive as this option is, it is fraught with dangers and, at the mo­ment, constitutes a serious distraction. But before I go further, let me quickly acknowledge that I am one Nigerian that considers the present political system a thoroughly defective one. And decep­tive, to boot. So, I am not against polit­ical reforms or what is now popularly called political restructuring. I am in­deed long reconciled to the need for a more progressive and practical system that generously accords with our diver­sities. I believe that this would be real­ized someday despite the spirited fight against it by some parts of the country who wrongly believe that maintaining the status quo is their only guarantee of continued existence. I have great respect for Afenifere and Chief Babalola, and it is easy to see that the positions they have taken were borne of genuine concern over Buhari’s ad­ministration’s apparent confusion in the face of otherwise normal challeng­es which any other average government could have handled along the way. But such propositions as have come from Afenifere and Chief Babalola make me panic. You see, if there’s anything I de­sire most frantically now, it is to see the back of Buhari and his men. So greatly do I desire an end to this government that I would gladly vote in any referen­dum organized to bring back the tran­sition date to October 1, 2022. For me, May 2023 is too far. Waiting that long is honestly crippling. Now, that is my feeling. So, you can imagine how I felt when recently an elder statesman and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Robert Clarke, called for the extension of President Buhari’s tenure. According to reports, the Senior Advocate argued that the months preceding the 2023 elec­tions are not sufficient to put an end to the state of insecurity in the country. He spoke on an Arise Television programme and maintained that the Constitution provides that the President can extend his tenure for six months, in the first instance, if he feels that conditions are not good to carry out elections. His words: “Now, I don’t see any green light. I don’t see how what is happening today can be stopped within a period of six months from today or before February next year when the elections will be held. The alternative then is for Mr. President to continue as president, allow the secu­rity watches to carry up the mopping up and Nigeria will become stable.” He also said it was wrong to believe that the President could not stay in of­fice for more than eight years of two tenures, and suggested that the presi­dent could continue to give himself fresh six-month extension until such a time when elections could be held. “The same Constitution has made politics become not only very attractive, but the only lu­crative business in Nigeria today. What this means is that any election that holds under the present scenario will end up producing transactional and recycled leaders with no ability to turn things around,’’ he said. POLL My head is bursting with cries of out­rage! If the situation had degenerated so catastrophically under Buhari’s watch in the last seven months, what use is the extension of his undeserved second term? Would that not be an extension of the country’s state of anomie? Why on earth would anybody who has been in this country since Buhari mounted the controls at Aso Rock wish for an ex­tension of the long nightmare we have all endured for so long? What is wrong with allowing INEC peacefully conduct another election of its kind and produce “transactional and recycled leaders with no ability to turn things around” if it is – at least – devoid of Buhari? If I want to be uncharitable I would describe anybody canvassing tenure ex­tension as a member of the Association for Better Nigeria (ABN) – prayers for Arthur Nzeribe! May our good Lord have mercy upon his soul. His recent death awakened dark memories. Well, 1993 is past even though not forgotten. As for 2023, thirty years after that historic di­saster of poll annulment by uniformed adventurists and their cheerleaders, may there be election and a new government. I mean new government. That’s my prayer. With great respect to Chief Clarke, I agree with his diagnosis but shudder at his prescription. Thankfully, there has been a response to Clarke’s opinion from another legal mind. I reproduce below an extract from Chairman of the Body of Benchers, Chief Wole Olanipekun. He said: “It is quite disturbing, un­fortunate, uncheering, and very worri­some that since 1999, Nigeria has been migrating from one problem to another, oscillating from one crisis to another; graduating from one degree of catastro­phe to another; as a result of which the landscape has become a practising pitch for all sorts of theories, ideologies, ideas, suggestions, prognosis and hypothesis, the last of which has just come from the respected Chief Robert Clarke (SAN). “As stated earlier, this suggestion, if considered at all, how much more being implemented, would no doubt aggravate our already compounded woes and ter­minate the survival of the present dem­ocratic adventure. It is apt to caution, applying the old adage: ‘Ye deity, if you cannot improve or salvage my situation, leave me as you have met me’.” Ironically, the same Chief Clarke threw some shades at ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, who was alleged to have attempted tenure extension or ‘third term’ when his administration was winding up. Chief Clarke said: “Since 1999, I have not been a happy man, the way and manner Nigeria has been moved. For instance, look at our first President, Obasanjo, with due respect. What was the first negative act he did? I want a third term. Can you imagine? But he says, oh, it’s not me who wants it, it’s my friends who are asking me to go for a third term. That is how we started 1999 constitution by looking for loopholes to breach the Constitution.” The same loop­holes his prescription seeks to exploit. For all practical purposes and intents, let us unite to ensure that we have an­other government on May 29, 2023. My appeal to Afenifere and Chief Babalo­la: Nigeria lays prostrate from arrows of bandits and other terrorists, and we may not have access to the best doctors to administer treatment at the moment, but let’s first begin the search outside the scene of battle – maybe we will find someone who will try. I hope you will understand that the scene of battle, for me, is this government, and the terminal date of the battle – and this is very im­portant – is about a year from now. The date must never shift. Now, let’s even imagine that we agree to a GNU or an ING, who will midwife it? How long will it take? What will be its fate? Do you still remember the fate of the political ensemble called Interim Nation­al Government – oh, that acronym – ING, under Ernest Shonekan? Maybe you will say this is going to be different; no, sir, it could end up worse. Recall the confabs we have had and all the hullabaloo that has attended each one. Methinks the way to reform the Nigerian system will evolve when we have crushed the critical irri­tants such as terrorism (including rav­aging herdsmen) which, today, constitute our biggest albatross. Let’s decide that in 2023 we shall elect leaders who are not bigots and have balls, who know what is at stake and have some clues how to tack­le it. When we have taken care of these irritants, we can begin to look at the big­ger issues of structures and forms. We can’t deal with them all the same time. Restructuring is going to remain a truly troublesome issue to handle in the midst of this grinding economic predicament – which promotes parasitism. As long as some parts of the country fear the word, restructuring, let’s keep it in the rear for now. When those parts begin to under­stand that feeding on government is ret­rogressive and that the struggle to be in charge of the national cake is ultimately debilitating, they would let go. But this can only happen when there is peace and security and the progressive parts of the country are growing from organized hard work and not from parasitism. The choice we make today in respect of the leaders we support is very crucial and if we get it right, we might even­tually find the way through this mesh. But our surest opportunity to attempt a change at the moment is what is avail­able now – the present electoral process. Remember, if we had got it right in 2019, things would have been different today; yeah, maybe not everything. We, certain­ly, should begin somewhere. Great luck, countrymen and women.