Shareholders of Wema Bank Plc were in high spirits at the annual general meeting held last Friday as they poured encomiums on the board and management of the bank for the impressive result achieved during the 2021 financial year and for the good dividend payout . Wema Bank recorded a profit before tax of N12.3 billion during the full year ended December 31, 2021 as against N5.9 billion during the corresponding period in 2020. The elated shareholders, at the annual general meeting held on Friday in Lagos, approved the 24 kobo dividend per share proposed by the board. -Advertisement- The 24 kobo dividend per share of ordinary shares represents a significant progression over the four Kobo paid last year. Two years ago, the bank paid two kobo dividends per share to set a tradition of dividend payment after years of no dividend payment. Speaking at the meeting, a cross section of shareholders commended the bank for sustaining the tradition of dividend payment set in motion three years ago. Eric Akinduro, a shareholder, lauded the board and management for the stellar result and For keeping non-performing loans low in spite of the macro-economic situation in the Country. He urged both the board and management of the bank to continue to strive to deliver good returns to shareholders in the form of dividend. Similarly, Bisi Bakare praised the board and management for ensuring better and wider spread of the bank’s branch network during the review year. POLL She also commended the bank for initiating sound and environmentally sustainable practices such as the cleaning up of waterways and the environment . She expressed satisfaction with the bank’s share reconstruction which has strengthened its financial position via capital appreciation. Another shareholder, Mr. Matthew Akinlade, spoke highly about the sustained dividend payment in the last three years, and described the pattern as commendable. “You have done very well in terms of performance, and we pray for the bank to grow from strength to strength”, he said. The bank recently said it had made nine new millionaires with its ‘5 for 5 Promo’, which ended with a final draw on Friday, April 8. The bank said in a statement that this was part of its commitment to giving back to the society. The bank said the final promo draw held in Lagos was overseen by officials of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, the Federal Competition, Consumer Protection Commission, and Lagos State Lotteries & Gaming Authority. It stated that the promo, which commenced on July 1, 2021, produced 639 winners from the country’s six geo-political zones, with N31.5m handed out to customers. The statement said Abubakar Ayuba, a trader using the bank’s digital platform, ALAT by Wema, emerged as the final draw winner. He was informed via phone during the event, and he expressed his delight through an interpreter who spoke Hausa and thanked Wema Bank for the gesture.