A Legal Aid and Self Development Initiative (LASEDI), a Non Governmental Organization has urged aspirants with pending Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) case to steer-clear of Enugu State governorship race come 2023. The call was made on Tuesday in a statement issued by the Executive Secretary of LASEDI, Onyinye Isiani, tagged “Our Position on Recent Political Developments in Enugu State Ahead of the 2023 Gubernatorial Election”. He expressed worry about the number of gubernatorial aspirants of the state with damning corruption cases still pending at the EFCC. -Advertisement- According to the statement, @while some of them can still be seen as innocent until proven guilty, it is worthy to note that the resources of Enugu State cannot be handed over to people or persons with questionable character. “These aspirants should step down until they are declared innocent by the anti graft agency. “Some of these aspirants with pending cases at the EFCC and others whose corruption cases are public knowledge should steer-clear of Enugu governorship race,” it said. He urged all the residents to do everything within their powers to participate actively in the forthcoming 2023 general election. “We appeal to our people to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) especially those that have attained mandatory 18 years of age should register in order to vote out corrupt candidates. POLL “The trend where the state will have close to two million registered voters but can only muster less than 400,000 votes during elections proper should not be allowed to continue,” it said. LASEDI appreciated the efforts of the administration of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in sustaining peace in the state. “Gov Ugwuanyi’s administration has embarked on projects which directly impact the citizens especially those in the rural areas. This is highly commendable,” it said. “LASEDI also commend every citizen who has stood by the zoning tradition in Enugu State despite efforts by some politicians to truncate it and by so doing plunge the state in chaos. “As a group, we remain resolute in defence of any principle which engenders peace and brings about the safety of Enugu citizens,” it added.