We started this series three weeks ago and established that the context of leadership is work – that leaders exist to work, and those who cannot serve have no business trying to influence people. We also establish that the holy grail of leadership is to make work meaningful, the working environment conducive, and the worker productive. Last week, we explored how leaders make work meaningful; today, we will look at how leaders create a conducive working environment and make the worker productive. -Advertisement- Make the Working Environment Conducive The second thing all great leaders do is make the working environment conducive. The working environment is the conditions people work under, and it includes the resources and tools they need to be effective, the organisational culture, and the quality of relationships. It is unreasonable to expect people to be productive when you have not provided them with the tools and resources they need to do a good job or the environment is hostile. In many instances, a critical reason people leave an organisation is the work environment. The work environment is divided into two: • Hard or tangible: resources and tools like computers, lighting, good ambience, and so on. POLL • Soft or intangible: the culture and quality of relationships. Most leaders tend to focus more on the hard stuff and less on the soft stuff. They forget that the soft stuff is as important, if not more important, than the hard stuff. Imagine a new sedan on a bad road with potholes. Not only will the car take a longer time to reach its destination, but if it continually travels on that road, it will become damaged. The hard system of your organisation is like the new car, and the soft system is like the road. A great staff in a poor working environment will not function optimally. The environment, like the bad road, will limit her performance. What is the lesson here? The organisational environment will trump personal genius almost every time. Don’t depend on genius to get things done. Create a corporate environment that allows ordinary people to do remarkable things. One hallmark of a poorly designed work environment is the level of frustration in the system. Because it takes a longer time to get simple things done, people spend all their energies managing the system rather than getting work done. Such a poorly designed system hinders people; it incapacitates their genius. And anywhere frustration reigns, productivity nosedives and breakthrough results become a mirage. So, just before you complain about the performance of your people, check the work environment. People produce what their environment dictates. Great leaders know this. They not only provide the hard stuff people need, but they also pay attention to the soft stuff—they create the environment that allows greatness to flourish. One of your most significant roles as a leader is building the right organisational context that will attract and allow talent to flourish. Make the Worker Productive Everybody wants to win. I believe that one of the primary desires in the human spirit is the desire to win. It is why people will do everything in their power to succeed in life. Why do we gravitate towards successful people, teams, and organisations? Because inherent within every person is the desire to win. Such people remind us of what is possible and what we can yet become. Their successes become the mirror of what we genuinely desire for ourselves, although we are yet to accomplish. It is one reason we gravitate towards such people. How do great leaders use this concept? First, they show their people what they can become and commit to actualising it for them. Then they push or stretch their people to become all they can become. As Roslyn Carter observed, “A leader takes people where they want to go; a great leader takes people where they don’t necessarily want to go but ought to be.” Show them the picture of their potential, and you will awaken the sleeping giant in them. Great leaders achieve excellence because they show their people what is possible. They communicate to the team their greatness and commit to unearthing the wealth of genius buried inside their people. Then out of their people, many rejected by society, comes inventions, breakthrough products, and extraordinary performance. Great leaders make their people productive. Productivity is the hallmark, the defining measure, and the sine qua non of great leadership. It is why leaders are relevant and why the world needs them. To make people productive, great leaders provide their people with: • Purpose: they cut through the chase and explain the why. • Information: they clarify the what and how. • Resources: they provide the tools needed to succeed and remove any obstacles on their path. • Support and coaching: they provide the coaching necessary for their teams to meet their targets. • Incentives: they celebrate and reward their people—both tangible and intangible. This article is an excerpt from Chapter Three of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.