JOS – A House of Representatives aspirant for Pankshin, Kanke Kanam federal Constituency of Plateau state Flt. Lt. Othniel Danat (rtd) has vowed to use his over 15 years knowledge and exposure in Europe to bring the desire development to rural Communities if given the opportunity to represent them in the green chamber. Danat who is contesting on the platform of the opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), made the appeal in an interview with newsmen in Jos. The House of Representatives hopeful who is a pharmacist and currently a drug safety consultant to one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, innovating and developing vaccines and medicine that are saving million of patients said his vision is to inspire people to do what is right and establish fair and functioning communities in his constituency. -Advertisement- According to him, he will use technology innovation and system approach in solving problems and impact culture change through teamwork adding that he will use the expertise of the abundant retired service personnel plus available technology to protect lives and properties in the rural communities in addition to conventional education if elected to represent them. He further stressed ” We will provide scholarship in addition to using modern tools to help enhance the uptake of education in the communities . We will also use technology to improve farming practices and yield, upgrade health facilities to meet modern needs and work with stakeholders through team work to ensure equitable distribution of available projects and resources.” Speaking on zoning, he argued that zoning is a good thing especially in the quoter system. Danat added that he benefitted from the quoter system because he went to the Federal Government College Ijanikin Lagos from Plateau state based on the quoter system. “If you want to remove zoning then all the quoter system should be removed. But I think is a good practice especially in our growing democracy to continued with the zoning formula and allow the people in the South to produce some body that will lead us in the next dispansion.” Danat said.