LAGOS –  The staff unions and staff of the Federal College of Education (Technical) Umunze have commended the Federal Government for the renewal of Dr. Tessy Okoli tenure as Provost of the institution. President Muhammad Buhari recently approved the re-appointment of Okoli for a second and final tenure of four years, with effect from May 17, 2022. In reaction, members of the Senior Staff Union in Colleges of Education (SSUCOEN)and Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) attributed Dr. Okoli’s re-appointment to the robust, diligent and revolutionary administrative qualities she exhibited within the four years of her stewardship as the Provost. -Advertisement- In her response, the Provost, Dr Okoli expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari, and the Honourable Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu for the confidence reposed in her to serve the College and promised to consolidate the achievements already recorded in her first tenure. She further thanked the Executive Secretary, National Commission for Colleges of education (NCCE) Prof Paulinus Okwelle, the College Governing Council led by Hon Sekav Iyorthom, and the entire College community for their unwavering support, while promising to redouble her zeal toward the positive transformation of the institution. As the reaction continues, Comrade Anayo Nwankwo, Chairman of SSUCOEN, FCET Umunze chapter, in a congratulatory message, expressed satisfaction with the outstanding performance of the Provost, stressing that her tenure renewal was well deserved. “This is quite deserved due to your sterling qualities and outstanding performance. Your steadfastness over the years has remained your credo,” the union stated. Also, members of the Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) said Dr Okoli has distinguished herself as a selfless and effective leader within the four years of her first tenure. In a message signed by the Chairman, Comrade Nath Odo, NASU said the reappointment was a confirmation of her exemplary leadership and commitment to the institution’s development, which was rated under her watch as the best Federal College of Education during an evaluation exercise by SERVICOM in 2019. POLL “Her motherly role, academic leadership, administrative ingenuity and union-friendliness have put the College on a high pedestal and strengthened the foundation of academic excellence in the College. NASU will continue to partner with you in building a College where peace and staff welfare are prioritized,”Odo said. TheDeputy Provost of the College, Dr Christopher Ugwuogo, said the reappointment of Dr Okoli for for a second tenure was not unexpected considering her numerous achievements in the College, adding that the Provost dutifully pursued the completion of several building projects, and renovation of existing structures, which gave the College a befitting look of a modern campus. Ugwuogo noted that during the first tenure of Dr. Okoli as Provost, the pedigree of the college academic programme was enhanced, with the introduction of more programmes that widened students’ access to academic programmes. Besides, the re-appointment of the Provosts has continued to elicit more commendations from the teaching staff, who expressed satisfaction with her sterling performance in her first tenure.  The Director, Academic Planning and Statistics, Dr Juliana Israel congratulated the provost and prayed for divine grace to sustain her in the task ahead. At the same time, the former Dean, School of Languages, Dr. Titus Ezeme, described Okoli as a quintessential and indefatigable Provost.  Ezeme affirmed that the news of her reappointment had been long anticipated in the college, noting that it could not have been otherwise. The Director, Research and Conference Unit of the College, Dr. Sixtus Unigwe, said the tenure renewal didn’t come as a surprise, saying it was expected given the record of achievements of the Provost during the first tenure. In the same vein, the Head of Department, Educational Foundation, School of Education, Dr. Ezewuzie Jideofo Joseph, congratulated the Provost on her reappointment, noting that she has changed the face of the College for good. The former Dean, School of Sciences, Dr Ejezie Virginia and the former HOD, Computer Department, Emeka Umendu, thanked the Federal Government for the and urged the Provost to activate her horse-power for swift conquest in the second tenure., congratulated the Provost while praying that God would grant her understanding and wisdom in her second tenure. In her congratulatory message, the immediate past Deputy Provost, Dr JaneChinyere Madichie, prayed that God would continue to strengthen the Provost in the work ahead. Also, the Director, Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme(SIWES), Dr ThankGod Nzeribe described Dr. Okoli as the ‘People’s Provost’ and wished her well in her second tenure in office. Also, Dr Alex Onyeme described her appointment as good news to the College to recognise the landmark projects accomplished in her first tenure. The chaplain, Chapel of Ascension, FCET Umunze, Rev Canon Ekene Okolo congratulated the Provost and prayed that God would grant her the grace to function effectively in her second term in office.