The member representing Idemili North/South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives Hon. Obinna Chidoka on Monday got the green light to return to Green Chamber after two groups: ‘Concerned  Umu Idemili’ and ‘2023 Gate Keepers’ gave him the go-ahead. The two groups had also argued that he is not affected by the zoning arrangement in the area as the Idemili North Council area is yet to finish its tenure in the House. The group, however, gave him a nod to carry on, “carry go” and represent the Constituency for another four years, they argued. In a statement signed by Ifeanyi Nwanze and Mike Tobenna Okeke for both groups and made available to journalists, they dismissed the insinuations in some quarters that it is the turn of Idemili South to produce the next candidate for the Federal House constituency saying that it is still the turn of Idemili North going by how the seat has been rotating between Idemili North and Idemili South. According to their records, the Federal seat has been rotating through Idemili North and South since 1999 and Idemili South has occupied the seat for 14 years through Hon. Jerry Ugokwe and Hon. Charles Odedo while Idemili North has occupied it for 10 years through Obinna Chidoka, Dr Christian Okeke and Ifeanyi Ibezi respectively. They further explained that they are backing Chidoka to return to the House because they are comfortable with the quality of representation he has offered to the good people of Idemili North/South at Abuja and thus, it’s not good to change a winning ranking member at who is doing wonderfully well in all rounds. The groups wrote: “Let us inform you that he is doing well in all facets of representation such as being consistently active in the affairs of the House both on the floor and in oversight functions. “More interesting is that he is attracting dividends of democracy to the Constituents in the  area of empowerment of youth and women with jobs and working materials such as tricycles popularly known as Keke, sowing machines, hair dressing kits and other things including attracting road projects”