Antonio Conte will be a given all the cash from Tottenham’s £150million investment earlier in the week to spend on his squad in the summer transfer window. Spurs announced on Tuesday they have received an increase of capital by £150m from majority shareholders Enic Sports INC (ENIC) via shares – an investment which will allow the club further financial flexibility to strengthen on and off the pitch. This gives Conte extra funds to work with as he strengthens his squad ahead of competing in the Champions League next season. According to The Telegraph, the Italian has the entirety of that budget to spend and confirmed he will remain as Tottenham manager for the new campaign during talks with Spurs managing director of football Fabio Paratici in Turin on Friday. Some reports in recent weeks claimed Conte wanted to leave but he will stay on in North London as he looks to build on a positive end to the season. -Advertisement- Chairman Daniel Levy is hopeful Conte can win Spurs their first trophy since 2008 and has backed him in the transfer market to help them on their way. But this is further evidence that Conte does not stick around without financial support from the board and the club’s ownership. The 52-year-old does not typically spend more than three years in one job. The longest time Conte has been at a single club is when he was in charge of Juventus between 2011 and 2014, spending exactly three seasons with the Bianconeri. He was at Chelsea, Inter Milan and Italy for two campaigns each. At the end of his time at Inter, Conte reportedly left by mutual consent due to disagreements he had with the club’s board over transfers for the following season. This was after the club agreed to sell Romelu Lukaku and Achraf Hakimi to Chelsea and Paris Saint-Germain respectively as Inter tried to balance the books. They managed to recruit successfully with the signings of Edin Dzeko and Denzel Dumfries for a combined £14million – almost £145million less than what they sold Lukaku and Hakimi for. However, Conte was not happy with the finances at San Siro and decided to depart after winning the Serie A title. There was a similar theme during Conte’s stint at Chelsea, with the former Juventus player falling out with the club’s board before being sacked following a complete breakdown in communication with the hierarchy at the Blues. It is understood Conte also alienated several players, including Diego Costa, and Chelsea believed his behaviour effectively breached the terms of his contract as manager. POLL A reason behind Conte’s departure from Juventus was because they failed to capture the signature of Juan Cuadrado. Italian journalist Alessandro Alciato claimed Conte wanted the Colombia international but the Old Lady could not afford to buy him from Fiorentina. He added that the now-Tottenham boss was at loggerheads with the club’s director of communication, Claudio Albanese, leading to his dismissal. There is no doubting Conte’s skillset as a manager and he is quite rightly recognised as one of the best coaches in Europe alongside the likes of Pep Guardiola, Jurgen Klopp and Carlo Ancelotti. But in terms of longevity and ensuring he was there next season, Conte needed to be backed and Levy has chosen to give him the funds he needs to bolster his squad ready for Champions League football. It is not just that competition which Tottenham will be hoping to progress far in, with the domestic trophies also high up on Conte’s agenda. He lifted the FA Cup during his second season at Chelsea, while winning countless other major honours throughout his managerial career. Conte’s knowhow to get over the line and win trophies is something which should excite Spurs fans and the fact he has committed his future to the club for the forthcoming season should give them optimism that Tottenham can go all the way in a competition next season. With £150million at his disposal, Conte is expected to be busy and strengthen his ranks while ensuring Harry Kane and Son Heung-min stay. The duo are arguably the Premier League ‘s most dangerous forward partnership with Son finishing the season on 23 top-flight goals, while Kane was not far behind on 17. They also registered a combined 16 assists and will be key if Spurs are to challenge towards the top next season.