Abuja – Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi, has reacted to alleged interest by former President Goodluck Jonathan in the 2023 presidential race, saying if he attempts to run for the coveted office of president, it would most likely be regarded as one of the wonders of the century. According to Umahi, those prodding Jonathan to run for the presidency, may be plotting to embarrass him politically, noting that such ambition does not even align with the programmes of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming general elections. Umahi, who was at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, to thank President Muhammadu Buhari for paying a two-day visit to the state recently, also noted that the agitation for rotational presidency in favour of the South-East in 2023 should be considered as a demand for justice, equity and fairness in Nigeria’s sphere of governance. -Advertisement- His reactions came shortly after he met with the president, saying, “Jonathan is my father and God used him and the wife to make me a governor of the state and so anybody who has done anything for me, I have always remained very grateful to such person and I will continue to be very grateful to him, especially the wife for being available and my destiny helper, to achieve that feat. “Probably, if that miracle did not take place, then the miracles that happened in Ebonyi State, in terms of total evolution and transformation wouldn’t have taken place. So, he’s a man we can’t forget, just like Sani Abacha, who created the state and Mr. President. Of course, we’ve named the airport after him, we’ve named the light tunnel after him, we’ve named the Presidential Lodge after him. “Good intention that we don’t forget people who have helped us, but on the question of Jonathan joining the race, I may not say much about that because I have seen a lot of write ups, denials, but if he decides to join and to run, it will, for me, become one of the wonders in this century. “My reason is that if you go and see the campaign programmes of APC and you now ask President Jonathan to come and run, I don’t know what will be our campaign promises and what will be the stories we’ll be telling Nigerians. POLL I believe strongly that he was not aware of the forms and I want to believe that people that are mischievous would have bought the forms to embarrass him. But from what I read, he has quickly distanced himself from that. But like I said, if that is not the case, then the Guinness Book of Records is not totally filled up”. Commenting on his chances of clinching the APC ticket, given the rate at which candidates have been purchasing the forms and his relative amateur status in the party, Umahi said he never regrets his defection from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Apparently referring to the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, the Ebonyi State governor said he abhors a situation where an individual would want to foist his own beliefs and convictions on others. He decried the injustice meted out on the South-East by the opposition party for several years, saying the APC held better prospects for the region. “I have explained my position with PDP, I expressed my fear that we have one headmaster in PDP and that I don’t succumb to headmaster because for me, we’re all colleagues and unless we elect to as the leader of the headmasters, that I don’t succumb to that. I’m a man that is moved by my own personality and self-confidence. So, no matter the amount of money in this world, I’m not succumbing to that. “I had predicted that what is happening today will happen in PDP, to start with if PDP had listened to me, and they said, look, we want to disprove you, we want to zone the presidency to South-East, because you have voted for South-West, you have voted for South-South on the PDP and you put all your eggs in one basket. “On 2019, I had to boldly come even though I was in PDP, I said, look, I will give Mr. President Buhari 25%. And I encouraged other people to give 25% and that the presidential candidate or PDP kicked as I go and make 75% in your state and encourage others to make the same 75% you will win. “But you see this 25% almost give it and I did give it, in fact I gave 25.6%, you know, now, of course, they didn’t make up to 60%. In their state, President Jonathan’s team made terrible inroad. In those, they’re, you know, terrible good. They wrote them, they say that way. So the matter is that, if you’re with your peers, you’ve helped them this way, you have them this way, and it comes to your turn. I’ve always used one proverb that a woman said that it shouldn’t get to her turn and the husband will say that the bed has spoilt. “The bed must be good, you know, for the first wife, for the second wife, and for the third wife. So the bed is said to be bad now by the headmaster. And that’s what I predicted. So, that is injustice. And though for the APC, I’m just joining as a toddler. But I have a lot of materials for APC to win election. If it is what Nigerians are looking, a man of courage, if they are looking for a man that has professional experience, you know, background, to revamp our infrastructure. I am that man you are looking for. “But if they’re looking for moneybags, you know, I’m not there. If they’re looking for people that make empty promises, I’m not there. But the truth is that I have performed in my state with little resources. And it’s there for the whole world to see, you know. And so I think that my person is what this country needs now, a professional engineer, and the man who has the fear of God, it doesn’t matter the number of EFCC if you don’t have fear of God, if you have the love for the people, you will not do anything for your people”.