SIAKA MOMOH Strategy is about where the business wants to get to in the long-term, that is, business direction; about the markets the business competes in and the scope of the markets; about how the business can have an edge over other competitors in the markets; about what resources (skills, assets, finance, relationships, technical competence, facilities) are required in order to be able to compete; about the external environmental factors that affect the business ability to compete; about the values and expectations of those who have power in and around the business that is, stakeholders. Strategy is big stuff for business, yes big substance for business. -Advertisement- Warri Mini Market’s case Far back in the late 1970s, this writer was manager, Warri Mini Market, a retail outlet for wearing apparels and shoes based along Warri/Sapele Road, close to Ginuwa junction, Warri. This was before his university education. The shop was owned by Francis Omo Okotete, a traditional chief of the Agbarho clan who is now late. Chief Okotete was a University of London-trained economist. Before Warri Mini Market, there existed an array of fashion shops in Warri. Warri Mini Market came with a bang. It came prepared with innovation, strategic planning and basic tools. One should not expect less from an economist who had had some stint with UAC-related companies and PZ, now PZCussons. First, it sourced its goods direct from Europe – UK and Italy, whilst the other shops, its competitors, sourced through second and third parties. So we had an edge in pricing. None of them advertised their products. We did. We had prime time jingles on the local radio and as such we were in every home. Our merchandising was superb. Of course it had to be because Siaka, the shop manager, and his chief executive, travelled regularly to the UK and Italy and knew how the business was run in places like Marks and Spencer and others in their category. Warri Mini Market had stepped on toes for daring to rattle the market and we became a victim of the crude business environment. What one should expect under the circumstances in question was a counter competitive strategy. But what came instead was burglary – Warri Mini Market was burgled twice. But we were not deterred. We trudged on and succeeded. Manufacturers and art of war POLL Again, one remembers quite well in the early 1980s, as a young man, fresh from the university, on NYSC primary assignment in the Sales Control Department of a leading consumer products manufacturer based in Lagos, my team made regular trips to the major markets in cosmopolitan Lagos trailing competitors’ products, buying some off the shelf and taking them to our laboratory for analysis. What followed after this is your guess. It is a common practice in the industry. Southwest Airlines’ case The case of Southwest Airlines, the seventh largest airline in the United States by 1996, helps to illustrate how strategy operates in an organization. This case is sourced from HEC School of Management, Paris. By 1996, this U.S. airline was outperforming all its major competitors in terms of growth and profitability. It was the only airline in the US to have consistently posted a profit since it was incorporated in the early seventies. Meanwhile, many other airlines had experienced very tough times, being restructured or had gone bankrupt. While Southwest was growing and thriving, such dominant airlines like PanAm, Eastern or People Express had gone out of business and, in 1955, all significant carriers lost money, except Southwest. Southwest priced its services significantly lower than most other airlines; it entered new routes with airfares at least 60 per cent below competition. Southwest operated very unconventionally. Though other airlines primarily made money with their business class, Southwest had chosen a single class service, In addition, it did not serve meals on board and did not assign seats prior to boarding… Southwest did all its ticketing on its own, not making its seat available through computerized systems such as Apollo or Sabre (which charged a $2 fee by transaction). Travel agents received the standard 10 per cent commission, but had to contact the airline directly to book seats. As a result, only 55 per cent of Southwest’s seats were booked through a travel agent, in contrast to a 90 per cent average for the industry. While all other large airlines had switched to the “Hub and Spoke” system in the early eighties, Southwest continued operating point to point connections, thus offering most of its passengers’ non-stop service from origin to destination. Most flights were short haul and lasted 65 minutes on average. Operating out of uncongested airports did, however, save an average of 20 per cent on flight time as a result of reduced taxi time and less in-air waiting. In addition, Southwest benefited from lower gate costs and landing fees at these sec passenger, compared to $6 to $8 at a major airports. ondary airports: $2.50 on average per Southwest operated homogeneous fleet of 150 Boeing 737 aircraft that flew an average of 1500 trips per day these aircrafts had an average cost of $27 million and an average life of 20 years. Southwest’s fleet was one of the youngest in the industry. Southwest offered frequent service at all the destinations it served, usually eight or more one-way flights a day between two cities; in order to optimize the utilization of their three gates, Southwest only operated out of airports where they could schedule at least 20 departures a day. Mark in the market Southwest made a mark in the market. It became the US airline with the highest level of customer satisfaction. Industry conducted surveys revealed in particular that Southwest had the fewest customer complaints and unmatched record for on-time performance. In addition, Southwest was able to turn its aircraft around in an average of 15 minutes, when the industry average for this operation was 55 minutes. Turnaround time referred to the time between arrival at and departure from the airport gate; this period included the time in which passengers got on and off the plane, baggage was loaded on and off, the aircraft was cleaned, tidied up, refueled, provisioned with food and drinks and inspected. Low maintenance cost strategy In summary, Southwest’s strategy of low maintenance cost, on-time performance, direct flights less flight time, short turnaround time, low landing fee, low service costs and low booking costs brought about cost advantage and customer satisfaction. Thus Southwest’s strategy had all the features that make strategy a strategy. Strategy in war/business A close look at Sun Tzu’s The Art of War tells it all. The Art of War, written during the 6th century BC by Sun Tzu, a Chinese, is one of the oldest books on military strategy in the world. It is the first and one of the most successful works on strategy and has had a huge influence on Eastern and Western military thinking, business tactics, and beyond. Sun Tzu’s The Art of War was a prize possession for me when running my post graduate degree in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the Lagos State University, Lagos, under the pupillage of erudite Professor Siyan Oyeweso. Sun Tzu was the first to recognize the importance of positioning in strategy and that position is affected both by objective conditions in the physical environment and the subjective opinions of competitive actors in that environment. He taught that strategy was not planning in the sense of working through a to-do list, but rather that it requires quick and appropriate responses to changing conditions. For him, planning works in a controlled environment, but in a competitive environment, competing plans collide, creating unexpected situations. Ghana National Yam Sector Development Strategy About 48.1 million tons of yam are produced annually in West Africa’s “Yam Belt”, which extends from Ivory Coast to Nigeria, representing over 90% of global production.Yam is a primary agricultural commodity and major staple crop in Africa. In West Africa yam is a major source of income and has high cultural value Consumer demand for yam is generally very high in this sub-region and cultivation is very profitable despite high production costs. Ghana is the second largest producer of yams after Nigeria with nearly 6.3 million tons of yams produced in 2011. From December 2013 to March 2014, Sahel Capital Partners & Advisory completed a study of the yam value chain in Ghana with a focus on processing activities, in order to identify some robust and sustainable intervention ideas to accelerate yam processing for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation team to consider. Key Findings As the second most important root and tuber crop in Ghana, by production and consumption, yam is a male predominated crop. With a one-year production cycle, and limited storage technology, yam is typically available from July to February, and out of season for 3-4 months within the year. White yam (especially Pona) is the most preferred yam variety for consumption and processing. However, it is expensive and water yam appears to be cost effective and available during the off season, but it is often viewed as inferior. Sadly, due to a range of challenges including harvest and post-harvest handling losses, 10-40% of yam go to waste. High costs of inputs, and transportation, makes yam relatively expensive, especially during the lean season, with price increases as high as 200%. The value chain economics reveal that most of the margin on fresh yam goes to the middlemen and wholesalers. Demand for and consumption of yam is relatively low, with the average Ghanaian preferring cassava fufu to yam fufu. This reality, translates into minimal informal processing of yams, largely linked to damaged yam from the farms which are processed into yam flakes, amala. In addition, there are only 5-6 active yam processors in the formal Ghanaian landscape. They process yam into pounded yam flour, or very rarely, yam flour for amala, based on demand from other West Africans and Asians residing in Ghana, North America, and Europe. Sadly, these processors continue to struggle for survival with limited local access to affordable short term and expansion financing options and rising operating costs. Potential Interventions In order to fast-track yam processing, all stakeholders have an important role to play in accelerating improvements in the yam value chain. Building on the Ghana National Yam Sector Development Strategy initiative launched in 2013, the expertise of specific organizations, and the current ongoing YIISFWA project, high-level interventions are required to: • Address the challenge of consistent yam supply through the creation and professionalization of farmer clusters • Address the challenge of processing technology and capacity building through sound research in the use of water yam for high quality yam flour • Bridge the gap between the research community and the processing industry through linkages between the YIISFWA team and a new association of roots and tubers processors who can package yam flour under a single brand • Reducing barriers to entering processing, through a single door/ platform regulatory agencies • Increase market demand through broad-based awareness campaigns on available yam products. This sector strategy is situated within the context of Ghana’s Shared Growth and Development Agenda and Ghana’s National Export Strategy, which is focused on developing the potential of nontraditional exports to enable them contribute significantly to GDP growth. This strategy is motivated by the fact that encouraging the production of yam will improve the food security and economic livelihood situation in certain communities even when climatic conditions upon which farming is heavily dependent proves unfavourable. For these reasons, the strategy development process has been thorough and participatory, drawing on the knowledge and experiences of several actors in the value chain. COMING: Owning a part of Dubai