Organisers of the historic 8th Okpekpe internation­al 10km road race have been assured of adequate security coverage for the World Athletics Elite La­bel race scheduled to hold in Okpekpe, Edo state on Saturday May 28, 2022. Zack Amodu, the race director reveals that the Nigeria Police has grant­ed request by Pamodzi Sports Marketing, organ­isers of the the race des­ignated, through its label status as one of the lead­ing road races around the world for a total security coverage of the event. The Nigeria Police conveyed its approval via a letter dated March 24, 2022 and signed by CP Idowu Owohunwa, princi­pal staff officer to the In­spector general of Police. -Advertisement- ‘The Okpekpe race organisers have always worked closely with the Nigeria Police to ensure the safety of our runners and spectators,’ said Amo­du who revealed measures that have been mapped out to ensure safety of runners and spectators come May 28 in Okpekpe. ”Police and medical units will be stationed at the start and the finish line as well as along the race course. No spectators will be in the immediate finish line area,’ he stated adding that runners will not be permitted to linger or wait for another run­ner in the finish line area. ”There will be a desig­nated area for spectators to view the finish line as only runners, accredited race officials and medical personnel will be allowed within the start and finish areas,’ Amodu added. ”While we request that runners and spectators remain alert and report abandoned bags/suspi­cious object to race offi­cials and EOD of the Nige­ria police force, members of the the press will also be required to present Photo ID and must always wear their accreditation tags before access to re­stricted areas, in addition to their bags and equip­ment being subjected to inspection.” ”The safety and securi­ty of runners, volunteers, spectators, staff of Pa­modzi Sports Marketing, Edo state government of­ficials, Athletics Federa­tion of Nigeria officials, our sponsors as well as of­ficials of the Federal Min­istry of Youth and Sports Development remains our highest priority. POLL ”We are delighted the Nigeria Police has, once again granted our request and can as­sure those who will be around and in Okpek­pe on race day of their safety as well as provid­ing adequate security patrol along Benin-Au­chi Road. Amodu is confident of another hitch-free event on May 28, assuring that Pamodzi Sports Market­ing, Edo state governemnt and the AFN have the ca­pacity and experience to ensure everything goes well on race day.