LAGOS  – A new International Labour Organization (ILO)- United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), report calls for the closing of the social protection coverage gap that means 1.5 billion children are still unsupported by family or child cash benefits. According to the report, Social protection reduces family poverty and vulnerability, thereby diminishing key drivers of child labour The report noted that the role of social protection in the elimination of child labour: Evidence review and policy implications , presents evidence from a number of studies conducted since 2010 that show how social protection – by helping families cope with economic or health shocks – reduces child labour and facilitates schooling. -Advertisement- However, too little progress has been made in ensuring that all children enjoy social protection, says the study. Worldwide, 73.6 per cent, or some 1.5 billion children, aged 0-14, receive no family or child cash benefits. This large protection gap must be closed and closed rapidly, the report says. Guy Ryder, ILO Director-General, said: “There are many reasons to invest in universal social protection but eliminating child labour has to be one of the most compelling, given its pernicious impact on children’s rights and wellbeing,” Governments have a range of policies they can deploy to promote social protection. If policymakers do not act decisively, the COVID-19 pandemic , ongoing conflict, rising poverty, and climate change will only increase the prevalence of child labour, the study says. More than 160 million children worldwide – 1 in 10 children aged 5-17 – are still engaged in child labour, and progress has stalled since 2016. These trends were present even before the COVID-19 crisis. It is estimated that without mitigation strategies, the number of children in child labour could rise by 8.9 million by the end of 2022, due to higher poverty and increased vulnerability. “There are many reasons to invest in universal social protection but eliminating child labour has to be one of the most compelling.” POLL To strengthen social protection systems for the prevention and elimination of child labour, the report makes a number of recommendations: “Close the social protection coverage gap for children. This means prioritizing child benefits, as well as extending social protection to the two billion workers in the informal economy, thereby supporting their transition from the informal to the formal economy.