A global safety organisation, Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHAssociation UK – Nigeria) has renewed its commitment to partnering with the Federal Government towards creating robust awareness of public health and safety. This was the focal point at the three-day Exhibition and Conference for Security, Safety, Fire and Facility Management Sectors organized by the Securex West Africa in Lagos State. The event also highlighted cyber security, with sessions detailing how companies could prepare for a cyber emergency and protective measures SMBs should take to protect their businesses, ending with a programme on smart cities and buildings. -Advertisement- Speaking at the event, the OSHA Regional President, Dr Aderemi Olusegun decried the spate of environmental pollution triggered by oil pollution, gas explosion, flooding, inflammation, refuse dump, to air pollution. While calling for urgent attention, Aderemi promised to ensure enduring partnership with government at all levels and corporate organisations in tackling the environmental menace. Aderemi argued that it was high time, that government and corporate bodies worked together towards ‘Creating a Sustainable Environment. He also said that Government, as well as corporate organisations, have great obligations towards the public by ensuring safety, good health and a conducive environment in their affairs and daily operations. He stressed that good governance will foster sustainability values that “will, in turn, assist corporate bodies and businesses to thrive and ensure employees safety”. POLL OSHAssociation according to Aderemi is saddled  “towards building a strong network of safety advocates and raising safety Ambassadors from various sectors” He alerted the relevant stakeholders to intensify efforts and devise means by which the negative effects of the problems would be tackled to safeguard the people from the effects of health challenges. Executive Chairman of Phase3 Telecom, Stanley Jegede delivered a keynote address on “Security of critical digital infrastructure across industries and address on Lagos Smart City initiatives and investment opportunities.” Marketing and Operations Director, Afrocet Montgomery, Jamie Pearson, who doubles as the organiser of the event, stated that Securex, “which is the largest international trade show in West Africa, is dedicated to commercial, homeland, cyber security, fire protection and safety exhibition.” Pearson explained that the exhibition “provides leading security solutions to companies and persons besides ensuring the security and safety of individuals, companies and organisations across the board. “This year’s event plays host to over 100 brands, making Securex West Africa 2022 the biggest edition to date, a real testament to an industry bouncing back.”