Former Governor of Anambra State and a frontline presidential aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi has said that one of the ways of taking Nigeria out of poverty was to cut down on the cost of governance. Obi said apart from the weight of foreign debt due to excessive borrowing by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government, there is a need to reduce the rate of spending by officials of government and invest same in infrastructural development. Speaking at the Rivers state chapter of the PDP secretariat on Monday during a consultative visit to the state delegates, Obi said his intention to contest for the sole ticket of the PDP was to move Nigeria from a consumption economy to production economy. -Advertisement- The former Vice presidential candidate in 2019 said he was eager to build a bright future for all Nigerians the same way he did in Anambra state, adding that if “we get the leadership of the country wrong, we all will become refugees in our own country. “We must cut down on the cost of governance and redirect the resources into developing the human capital. If we want to build a new and prosperous Nigeria, then we must invest in developing our people. That also means improving the economy”. Obi who congratulated the Rivers state Governor and presidential aspirant, Nyesom Wike for the infrastructural development drive in the state said only the development of human capital can pull the country out of abject poverty and excessive borrowings. He promised to activate all the seaports in the south-east and south-south regions of the country and make them active for business operations just like the Tin Can and Apapa seaports. In his response, the Rivers state chairman of PDP, Ambassador Desmond Akawoh thanked the presidential aspirant for his visit to the state chapter of the party and prayed that he succeeds in his quest to win the party’s ticket at the primaries. POLL Akawoh noted that Nigeria has never been so divided as it is now in the APC government, adding that the country has become an object of ridicule everywhere in the world. “It is a pity that our country has become an object of ridicule everywhere in the world because of bad government”, he said.