Filmmakers’ Forum a programme by The Nollywood Studies Centre of the Pan African University will, this morning at 11 am host Alhaji Abdulkareem Mohammed, a filmmaker and media consultant. A statement from the Centre describes Mohammed as the MD of Moving Image Limited and the founder of the Kano Indigenous Languages Film Market and Festival (KILAF), a yearly event that serves as a platform to promote the excellence and professionalism of African films and those who make them. “Alhaji Mohammed started his career as a television producer with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA). He established his film production company, Moving Image Limited, in 1991. He was also the pioneer President of the Motion Picture Practitioners’ Association of Nigeria (MOPPAN) and is currently the Chairman of the Association’s Board of Trustees. -Advertisement- “He is known for films like Waiwaye Adon Tafiya (1994), which was the first Hausa film shot on U-Matic tape format, the broadcast standard of the time. His second film, Alhaki Kwikwiyyo (1998), was shot on BetaCam SP format and became the first Nigerian film to be shot on a dual-sound system combining camera and Niagra sound recordings. The film won the best sound award at the National Film Festival. He has produced and/or directed several other films, including the first Hausa-Igbo collaboration film, Dan Adam Butulu (1999), produced by Iyke More Investment Limited,” the statement reads. Alhaji Abdulkareem Mohammed has over 400 titles to his credit, which includes both television and radio programmes. One of his creations is the long-running television programme Mu Koma Gona (Let Us Go to the Farm), which is credited with driving up farming practices in Kano and Jigawa states. His radio programme, Hannu Daya (A Tree Cannot Make a Forest), sponsored by the Department for International Development (DFID), has won a Commonwealth Award. Shugabanci (Leadership), another radio programme that focuses on anti-corruption, is broadcast on nine radio stations across eight states of Northern Nigeria.