There is no doubt that technology is transforming the world, and small African businesses are missing out from this transformation. While innovation is moving at lightning speed globally, small businesses in Africa are still grappling to find and access context-aware technology solutions that grow with their businesses. It is the need to provide access to easy e-commerce business and help SMEs, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic that necessitated the birth of QShop, Independent e-commerce platform which is currently redefining e-commerce and online trading in the country. -Advertisement- Tarebi Alebiosu, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of QShop, while addressing journalism in a virtual meeting on Tuesday, said the platform started with the view to change the way businesses interact with technology. She said: “We started QShop because we want to change the way small businesses interact with technology. Many entrepreneurs are struggling to grow their businesses and revenue streams. We want to be that tool that makes it possible for them to do so. We have made it easy for businesses to start and scale their online sales to focus on what matters: growing their businesses”. The platform currently has key partners like Flutterwave, Paystack, Facebook and Provides Bank to help in their transactions while they also have Google Analytical as partners. Already, the platform since inception in 2020, has facilitated transactions to the tune of N290 million. Though, the platform allows transactions to be done in some foreign currencies but it is not unaware of the restrictions of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as the platform does not allow direct currency exchange of any kind. POLL “We are not a money exchange platform. All we are doing is, for instance if a dress is N10,000 and some in England want that dress, we will allow payment in foreign currency”. On plans to ensure that the platform does not allow dumping of illegal or unquestionable products, Alebiosu said, “We allow all physical and digital products that are legal. We have to take some illegal and questionable products out of the platform and In terms of distribution; it is straightforward if it is a digital product. Once payment is made, QShop will go ahead to distribute the product to the customers and for the physical products, the stores set their own shipping link and use any logistic providers they prefer”. Going forward, Alebiosu said the platform is doing a lot to improve its spread. “We have online initiatives and offline initiatives and of course we have digital marketing and we have partnership with some banks. One of the things that the Providus Bank partnership has brought us is good sign-ons and we have partnerships with some other banks that we have not disclosed yet.