EMMANUEL OBETA Marketing campaigns according to Hubspot are organised and strategic efforts aimed at promoting a specific company goal, such as raising awareness of a new product or capturing customer feedback through a variety of ways and combination of media platforms or channels like email, print advertising, television, radio advertising, pay-per-click, and social media. Marketing campaigns by their nature are not continuous but only lasts for a specific period of time. -Advertisement- It also does not represent or account for the entirety of all the marketing efforts for a brand but are designed to achieve just a particular result and is therefore just one out of the many or different sets of marketing activities carried out to achieve the objective of building and projecting the brand. Marketing campaigns are also directed towards the provision of the solution to a particular problem being experienced by the brand or to achieve a particular objective for the brand. Stages and components of the Marketing Campaign The first stage of the marketing campaign is the setting out of the main goals and objectives that you aim to achieve or accomplish with the marketing campaign. A flip side of it is the major problem or gap that you want to fill in by carrying out the campaign. When you have established clearly what the goals are the next thing will be to establish what success for the campaign will look like. POLL In other words, the major indices for measuring and evaluating the marketing campaign. This is important because it is the objective as well as the level of anticipated impact or result of the campaign that will determine both the magnitude as well as the channels that will be deployed in achieving the desired results. The various objectives for the campaign can range from; the promotion a new product or service, Increased brand awareness, obtain or gather customer feedback or content, generate increased or additional revenue, boost user engagement or to advertise an upcoming event. For these objectives to be measurable they need to be SMART. Using the Coca Cola share a coke campaign as a case study, their research showed that “while teens and young adults loved the fact that Coca-Cola was big and iconic, many felt the brand was not talking to them at eye level”and as such were losing the teens market. Coca-Cola then developed the campaign with two clear objectives in mind: Increase sales during the summer period in Australia and to talk directly to millennial consumers. The second stage of the marketing campaign is to come up with the creative concept, anchor or big idea for the entire campaign which can be interpreted or disseminated throughout the various channels that will be utilized for the campaign. This big idea or anchor for the campaign is important because it is not only the ice breaker for the campaign but the major attention booster or earner for the campaign. If the entire idea of the campaign is moribund or not catchy then the campaign will be dead on arrival. A good example for such a wonderful anchor idea for a campaign was the Share a Coke campaign where the idea was to create a Coke bottle with people’s name on it. During the initial Australian release, consumption among teenagers grew 7% with two out of five people in the country buying a Share a Coke pack. 378,000 Coke cans were printed at kiosks, and overall sales increased by 3%. In the US The result was also outstanding, 1.25 million more teens tried a Coke during the following summer and sales of participating Coca-Cola packages rose by a phenomenal 11% in the US. ‘Share a Coke’ in the US was more successful in driving sales than in any previous market that had run the campaign. The third stage in running a marketing campaign will be to clearly define your target audience. This is important because your target audience determines both the channel to be used, the messaging style as well as the content of your message. The key factor in determining your target audience for the campaign is that there is usually a primary target audience whose behaviour and perception of your brand drives the cumulative behaviour of the entire market. In other words, a shift or change in the brand behaviour of these target market will create a ripple or domino effect that will determine or influence the behaviour of the other critical elements of the target market. The next stage in the target audience analysis is to find out the specific stage of the buyer’s journey that your campaign is or intends to target. Basically, because the three key stages in the buyer’s journey are awareness, consideration and decision stage so you need to decide on which of these stages your campaign will be focused upon. For example, are you trying to bring in new customers, or are you attempting to gather feedback from existing clients or are you marketing your brand to those who recognize it, or are you introducing a new brand identity altogether etc?Using the same share a coke campaign as an example Daniel Codella (2018) pointed out that the Coca Cola team and its agency identified the millennial market as the biggest opportunity and developed a campaign that would tap into one of their most popular behaviors—social sharing. Certain information about your target audience will naturally dovetail into your media or channel selections and decisions. For example, their media interests or their media consumption patterns like which TV shows do they watch or prefer to watch, what magazines and other print-based media they read or prefer to read coupled with how they relax generally or keep busy while relaxing. What are their online habits or behavioural patterns? Which social media platform are they most inclined towards: Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, snapchat etc as well as what is their major purpose in using them? Do they just browse through these platforms or are they actively engaged with them? What kind of contents are generally of interest to them or are they more inclined to? What is their response pattern to messages, advert orientated messages and other types of content? What are the major cultural nuances underlining their communications and interactions? What are their current perceptions and dispositions towards your brand? How does your brand currently line up or compare with other competing brands aimed at meeting their needs? +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com