Wonders they say shall never end. And truly in Nigerian sports, wonders will never end, especially when it comes to election into the na­tional sporting federations. The country has witnessed several bizarre scenarios when elections into the national federations are held. The recent was when Chris Giwa in 2018 claimed to be the authentic president of the Nigeria Football Federation. But, the Presidency shut him up by aligning with the Amaju Pinnick-led board, and allowed reason to prevail. Today, the same scenario is playing out, this time with the Nigeria Basketball Federation, and the presidency, against all expectations, has failed to toe the path of reason. It failed to let reason prevail and has taken a decision that benumbs every right thinking person. -Advertisement- The decision is Federal Govern­ment’s withdrawal of Nigerian bas­ketball from international competi­tion for two years, a decision every right thinking person believes was not well thought out. For, if President Muhammadu Buhari truly considered the likely implications of this decision, a decision I believe is effective May 12, 2022, would have jettisoned it outright; he would not have given it a second thought. But, here we are, it is a decision that has been taken, not that it’s been con­sidered. But, this is a decision that will expose the country to ridicule within the international community, if not reversed. The reason given by the Federal Government leaves much to be de­sired. Reason given was the “unend­ing crisis that has plagued and nearly crippled basketball development in the country,” following the election of Musa Kida as president of the federa­tion in an election observed by FIBA, the world basketball governing body, in Benin last January. This withdrawal, the Federal Gov­ernment stated would avail the coun­try the opportunity of revamping the sport from the grassroots as well as reviving the domestic leagues, which have become moribund. In order to achieve this, the govern­ment plans to set up an Interim Man­agement Committee that will adminis­ter the sport and address other related issues bordering on the development of the sport. POLL “Government intends to utilise this period of break to address all conten­tious issues among stakeholders. The Terms of Reference (TOR) and mem­bership of the Interim Management Committee will be announced in due course,” the statement added. The government reiterated its com­mitment to the development of the sport and also the huge talents abound domestically, stating that it wants all these to happen in an atmosphere that is free of rancour and squabbles. The government called on players, officials, fans, and other stakehold­ers to remain calm as it embarks on far-reaching initiatives to reposition, sustain and stabilise the sport for growth and success in the long-term. This is a self-inflicted decision that will resonate for years. It is a decision that will only help to exacerbate the self-inflicted crisis in Nigerian basket­ball; a decision that those who took it will live to regret. The immediate impact of this de­cision is that darkness has eclipsed Nigerian basketball. It is when the im­plications are beginning to manifest that we will realise that we’ve allowed personal ego to destroy the future of our youths that we claim we want to protect. Who are those who decided that withdrawing Nigerian basketball from international competitions for two years will solve the mirage of prob­lems that the crisis have thrown up. Honestly, without much ado, we’ve just by this decision, which I believe was foisted on Nigerians by the cabal that has been unease with the re-elec­tion of Musa Kida as president of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) in Benin last January, pressed the self-destructive button that will cer­tainly buried the sport in the country. Let’s ask ourselves a question: Has basketball developed in the country? If it has why do we have to depend on foreign-based players for the D’Tigers and D’Tigress and also foreign coaches for the teams? Where are the facilities the players need to train with? What of coaches that will discover talents and nurture them to stardom? The only way to describe this im­properly thought out decision is that, “it is a descent into the abyss.” Well, I don’t know the facts at gov­ernment’s disposal that enabled it to take this decision. But, without mincing words, the government’s de­cision was not a well thought out one. If it was, the government would have known that this amounted govern­ment’s interference that will attract FIBA sanction(s). The move violates Art 9.7 of the FIBA Statutes on third party interfer­ence, particularly the government. FIBA’s rules state: “National mem­ber federations shall manage their af­fairs independently and with no influ­ence from third parties. In particular, they must ensure that their officials are either elected or appointed under a democratic process for a term of office of four (4) years.” The government’s decision to not only withdraw the country from in­ternational competition, but also to appoint an interim management com­mittee, is a breach of these rules and leaves the country in grave danger of a suspension. The decision also means that D’Ti­gress will be withdrawn from the World Cup in Australia in September. The momentum following D’Tigress from the qualifiers in February in Ser­bia, would be wiped off. These players who are preparing themselves psy­chologically for the World Cup, will be highly disappointed. There was no way the team would not have won a medal in Australia, but this self-in­flicted decision has wiped off all this. Failure to take part in the World Cup means we are out of the 2024 Olympics basketball event. The same scenario also applies to D’Tigers who, by this decision, are ruled out of the 2023 World Cup and by extension the Olympics. With the withdrawal, African coun­tries that are envious of this country success will gang up and make Nige­ria’s return a mountain to climb. If the country does not take part in international championships, what motivation will be for local players to play the game? How will government in two years solve the mirage of prob­lems confronting the sport in the coun­try? This is a country where facilities are grossly inadequate and with the available ones in bad shape; where there are no coaches that will discover talents and nurture them to stardom? Have we asked ourselves why Nigerian players easily transform themselves into big stars the moment they step out of the country? The Federal Government’s reason for the withdrawal is because it was not confortable with the Kida’s presidency of the federation and not wanting to confront FIBA. With the above, it means the gov­ernment has failed basketball stake­holders. No sponsor will even come near the sport with this crisis that the government has helped to blow out of proportion. In the words of Oni Afolabi on his Facebook, “What is the essence of having a government who can’t solve issues, I will substitute problems in­stead of issues? “You mean the two presidents are more powerful than the Nigerian gov­ernment? You mean government cannot an­nounce a position on this issue as it did during the Nigeria Football Federation crisis, where it wrote FIFA aligning with the Amaju Pinnick-led board? After that positional statement, was the crisis not solved? Why can’t Buhari apply the same principle now? Who are those pulling the strings underground that are feed­ing Buhari with wrong information?