LAGOS  – Guinness Nigeria Plc, a subsidiary of Diageo Plc and the foremost total beverage alcohol company in Nigeria, opened its new state-of-the-art headquarters in Ogba, Lagos, a modern space designed to bring to life the company’s purpose of ‘celebrating life, everyday everywhere’. The opening of the new office space which coincided with the 72nd anniversary of the organisation is part of the efforts of the organisation to develop newer and more strategic ways of working, enhance collaboration and productivity, promote creativity and sustain its business operations in the country. Dr. Omobola Johnson, the Board Chair, Guinness Nigeria Plc., during the ceremony, noted that the new headquarters’ aims to create an environment where all employees and even stakeholders, feel included and able to perform at their best. -Advertisement- “We recognise our employees’ needs, especially after working remotely for so long, so we have created a modern and agile workspace designed for maximum connectivity, collaboration and connection in line with the new world of work”, Johnson said. The open plan workspace features bright, colourful and multi-functional spaces with state-of-the art technology, and embraces leading sustainability practices as well as the company’s commitment to inclusion and diversity. Baker Magunda, Managing Director, Guinness Nigeria Plc, revealed at the office opening ceremony that the initiative reaffirms the organisation’s commitment to its drive towards sustaining its long-term business goals in the country. “The new office opening reestablishes Guinness Nigeria as a forward-thinking organization. We remain committed to developing capacity to grow our brands and optimise performance to cater to the needs of our consumers while creating the right environment for all stakeholders to thrive”, Magunda reaffirmed. “The move represents a significant shift, not just in where we work but how we work, enabling us to eliminate boundaries, be more connected, and more future-focused. This is why for us, this represents ‘the future of work’. POLL “We have created an environment where all our employees feel included, our diversity and inclusion culture is enhanced, and our people are empowered to maximize their full potential through effective collaborations, creativity and improved connections within the business and value chain.”