According to Gianluca Di Marzio’s official website, Juventus are interested in bringing Gabriel Magalhaes to the club during the summer window. The Serie A giants wants the Brazilian to become a long-term defensive option at the club, although they face the tricky task of convincing Arsenal to sell their star centre-back. Gabriel Magalhaes has made a prominent name for himself at Lille and Arsenal. The Brazilian signed for the Gunners from the French giants in the summer of 2020 and has become one of the first names on Mikel Arteta’s teamsheets. After a tricky first season at the Emirates, Gabriel has formed a significant partnership with £50 million summer arrival Ben White. The duo have played together most of the games in the Premier League this season, as they are considered the long-term central defensive partnership at the club. -Advertisement- Gabriel’s performances have attracted the attention of big clubs in recent times, with Barcelona showing interest around April in his services. For his good displays for the Gunners, the defender also got called up to the Brazil national side. Amid Barcelona’s interest, Arsenal were uninterested in selling him, and they could stick by their stand when the summer window opens. Juventus are the latest club to admire the centre-back, as the Italian giants look at long-term options in their central areas. The futures of Giorginio Chellieni and Leanardo Bonucci may have to be evaluated, and build a new central defensive partnership for years to come. They have invested heavily in Matthijs de Ligt, and the club would like to bring in a new player for the position. Gabriel’s playing style and physical attributes suit Juventus’ requirements, with the club looking to approach the Gunners in the summer. It may be a difficult task considering how much Arsenal and Arteta value him, with the manager looking to develop him further for Premier League football. Juventus are hoping to enter talks with Arsenal and possibly tempt them with some of their players, who the Gunners might have been interested in previously. The north Londoners were keen on Bianconeri midfielder Arthur Melo in January, although their interest has cooled down over the last few months, and they are unlikely to reignite a move for the Brazilian. POLL It will be difficult for Juventus to convince Arsenal, as any enquiry could be turned down by the Gunners. Gabriel is an all-important player for Arteta, who views him as a key figure in his young squad.