LAGOS  – Rice farmers in Abia state who benefitted from the rice capacity building project of the British American Tobacco Nigeria Foundation (BATNF), have begun to count their gains as a result of the intervention. The project, which was implemented by the Young Peoples’ Dream Initiative (YPDI) a non-government organisation that attends to the immediate needs of young people especially farmers, trained and built the capacity of 500 farmers on good and best agronomy practices in rice production. Some of the farmers while sharing their experiences with Daily Independent in Umuahia recently, said that the project has been an eye opener to them and it has in no small measure boost their capacity and livelihood. -Advertisement- During the visit the farmers that benefitted from the initiative was given seeds to plant on their various farms to grow their businesses. Lydia Kalu, who is from Ndi Oji Abam a town in Arochukwu local government area is one of the beneficiaries. She said her group, Ndinwankwo heard about the programme when they came for sensitization in their community. Kalu, who has been cultivating rice paddy on a subsistence level, said that when the initiative approached their community and started the training she keyed into it and put in all her attention. “When they came with the collaboration they taught us how to produce seed and since I have been farming , I have never heard that a farmer can produce seed. POLL “In my group Ndinwankwo, we did not even know the difference between paddy and seed. What we normally do is that when we plant and harvest, we will keep some and replant next year but with this initiative I now know that there is a different between paddy and seed and for this year’s season that we planted they gave us foundation seed which we planted and multiply and produce certified seed which we are going to plant this year to get paddy and sell and make money from there. “This project has really helped us a lot. Before I was cultivating on a subsistence level I don’t know the difference between acre and hectare we are thinking all the measurements are the same. “This training has opened our eyes to know the difference. Other farmers now come to buy seed from us now that they know we produce. “I realise now that planting seed is more profitable than paddy production. “I have six children in the school and I have been finding it difficult to pay their school fees, but with what I got from my last production I have been able to offset their school fees without any issue and do some other tangible things which I could not do before. “With the seed I am getting now I will get a new place to expand to cultivate it and then sell after harvest. She appreciated the foundation and the initiative for the gesture stressing that projects like this should continue so as to enable them to be financially independent in a short while. Ifeanyi Aja, who has been cultivating rice for the past 15 years said he does not know that there are other better ways of cultivating rice which is easier and better yielding than what he has been used to. “They sensitised us and introduced transplanting to our group. They enlightened us on how to apply fertilizer and many other things that will make our work easier and better. “Since I have been putting into practice what I learnt I have been making a lot of profit compared to before. I am currently building my house from the proceeds I made and I can confidently pay my children’s school fees. “The variety we grow now Faro 44 is one that people are demanding for and not the one we have been planting,” he said. Also, Ejimofor Okereke of Ahaba Imenyi Rice Cluster in Isuikwuato local government area of the state said he started rice farming since 1988 though partially but that he later started it fully after sometimes when he found out that rice farming cannot be done on a part time basis as it requires ones time and attention. He said the project enlightened them on best practices in rice production which is totally new to what they have been doing in the past. “I am one of those they have been using to produce seed I was able to find out the difference between the seed and the paddy that we normally grow. “I have gained a lot from their trainings, now I can produce seed. This year I produced over 100 bags of clean paddy rice which I sold 70 bags to my offtakers and I still have more than 30 bags that I reserve from there I can process bit by bit to sell in the market. I am happy they have been assisting us generally,” he said. He thereby called on the initiative to assist in linking them to serious offtakers who would always offtake whatever they produce. Dr. Ezinne Otuka, CEO of Young Peoples’ Dream Initiative who is also the immediate past Project Coordinator, Abia State FADAMA III Additional Financing said having met the requirements to implement the project her organisation started with rice seed. Otuka stated that the organisation trained 500 farmers under capacity building on the best agronomy practices on how to produce seed so that they can make good yield. “We also trained them in agricultural climate smart farming and on the adoption of the best technologies. “We demonstrated this intervention through establishment of demo farms. The demo farms enabled the farmers to see the best way of agronomy practices and how the yield can come up. She said everybody can produce paddy but not everybody can produce seed. “The farmers can do it on their own if trained. We gave it a trial and today the farmers are doing seed production. The farmers are just doing subsistence farming but now they have gone commercial because they have increased their farmland, increase their income and their livelihood has changed for better. “They are very grateful to the initiative. the farmers have expanded their farmland greatly. “Today we are here to distribute the foundation’s seed that they have produced into certified seed that they will now plant for their 2022 production for paddy. She added that the 25kg bag will be used on one hectare of land and it is expected to yield averagely 4.5 tonnes. “Looking at the market price now they will make nothing less than N1 million. It will change their livelihood they can do a lot of things differently and continue in that business. She, however, pleaded with the foundation to assist the farmers in setting up processing centre that will serve as a centre where the farmers can process their paddies and package it. Oludare Odusanya, Project Manager BATNF while speaking said the foundation stated building the capacity of 500 rice farmers yearly since 2018, stating that it produce the fund to train the farmers in best practices in rice production. “In doing this we will finance the establishment of demonstration farms with in a minimum of five communities resulting in five hectares and then the offshoot of that, there is seed available at the end of the training to be distributed to the participating farmers who can then use that to grow their own farms “The project was born out of the desire that came from the state to ensure that farmers within the state are able to boost their yield to at least four tonnes. “We needed to teach them agronomy-wise to be able to meet that competitive yield and other things they need to boost their yield was also employed. “The project identified lead farmers, the lead farmers are responsible for citing the demonstration farm of one hectare then we finance the input and at the end of the day the lead farmers gets half of the yield which is a compensation for making their land available. “We are funding the entire process, so they get two tonnes and they will give the remaining two tonnes to the project which will be distributed to other participating farmers”. Odusanya stated that the project has been able to increase the farmers yield from the usual two tonnes to 4.1/4.2 tonnes which has translated to increase in income for them. Some of the farmers receiving their seeds during the distribution exercise in Umuahia, Abia State