The crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken another dimension as three governorship aspirants boycotted the primaries taking place in some state chapters of the party. The governorship aspirants, who incidentally are serving senators boycotted the Wednesday primaries, citing different reasons. The aspirants are Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, former Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and Senator Bassey Albert. -Advertisement- They are from Abia, Enugu and Akwa-Ibom states respectively. Pulling out of the governorship race, Abaribe said on Wednesday that the campaign to liberate Abia State would surely assume a new dimension, adding that the time is now. Although he didn’t disclose which of the party would be used to liberate the state, Abaribe, in a statement, explained that the last couple of weeks has been tortuous as they battled hard to navigate the PDP away from a self-destructive path. The statement said: “The essence was to create an unfettered democratic space and a level playing field for all aspirants vying for all elective offices in the state, to participate equally in the primary elections. “That was not the case and of course what we are witnessing is a shambolic process driven by a procured court injunction. POLL “To make matters worse, the use of only imaginary 3-man Adhoc delegates to the exclusion of the party’s statutory delegates in the primary elections to elect our candidates even when INEC the nation’s electoral umpire, has unequivocally stated that no congress held in Abia State for that purpose, has no doubt put the party and her candidates in a quagmire. “The implication for our party is grave and as such has put all ongoing primary exercises on quicksand. “I am known for standing firm in defence of my convictions for the right of all people to a free and fair democratic process. That was why my campaign set sail on a democratic journey that took us to all the nooks and crannies of our dear state. We covered all the local governments and we could see the enthusiasm on the faces of our people who are desirous of change to a progressive government with a human face. “We committed human and material resources, preaching the “Rise Up Abia” message for the total emancipation of our State from the drudgery of imposition and godfatherism, which has seen the state at the lowest wrung of infrastructural, human and material development index among the states of the federation. “Our people were and are indeed fired up for a new lease of life that will be brought about by a people’s government. “There was no doubt that Abians are tired of being subjected to being the butt of jokes and ridicule from their peers, particularly those from the contiguous states that were hitherto far behind Abia State in the development index in the time past. “That was the narrative we sought to change when the campaign took off.” The statement further said: “Unfortunately, the ugly developments ignited by a rapacious ambition to maintain the wicked governance status quo of imposition and godfatherism have aborted this quest in PDP. “Accordingly, I Senator Enyinnaya Harcourt Abaribe will not be part of this charade. “I am therefore withdrawing from the exercise, which means that I will not be part of the PDP governorship primary election that holds in Abia State on Wednesday 25th of May, 2022 as doing so would have amounted to an endorsement of illegality that is already being challenged in the courts. “I, therefore, ask all our people, our teeming supporters and Ndigbo to remain calm, keep the faith and wait for the new direction, which will be announced very soon. “What is important is that the campaign to liberate Abia State would surely assume a new dimension. The time is now.” Ekweremadu, In a statement by the Director General of his Campaign Organization, Hon. Charles Ogbo Asogwa said he will not be participating in the PDP governorship primary election scheduled for this Wednesday, May 25, 2022. He said: “We wish to inform our supporters and Nigerians that the former Deputy President of the Senate and foremost governorship aspirant in Enugu State, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, will not be participating in the PDP governorship primary election scheduled for this Wednesday, May 25, 2022. “Meanwhile, we continue to trust God as we appreciate our teeming supporters and the good people of Enugu State for the enormous goodwill they have ceaselessly invested in the actualisation of the ‘Pathway to a New Enugu State.’ “We urge them to remain peaceful and be assured that we will keep them abreast of our decision on the way forward.” On his part, Senator Bassey cited a court case for the reason why he’s boycotting the primary in his state. He said in a letter he wrote to the Akwa Ibom State Chairman of PDP, which he also copied the PDP National Chairman, Senator Iyorcha Ayu and the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Uyo, Akwa Ibom state, that he only withdrew from the primary, not the governorship race. Explaining why he’s withdrawing from the primary, the lawmaker said, “my attention has been drawn to widely publicised notices dated and signed by the National Organising Secretary, Hon. Umar M. Bature, wherein, it was stated that by virtue of Section 84(8) of the Electoral Act, 2022, delegates to vote in the above-mentioned primaries are the three (3) AD-HOC Delegates per ward, elected at the Ward Congresses and One (1) National Delegate per Local Government, elected at the Local Government Area Congresses. “I am in possession of a subsisting court enrolled order in Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/606/22 at the Federal High Court Abuja where the Honourable Court ordered amongst others that it will be in the interest of justice for the parties to maintain status-quo antebellum pending the hearing and determination of the suit. “I am also aware that the Party was duly served with this Order on May 18th, 2022. “That the party has filed an appeal with the Court of Appeal, Abuja on May 19th, 2022 which has not been heard as of date, and also file an application for stay of order at the same Federal High Court, Abuja. “I have been advised by my solicitors that a mere filing and or notice of an appeal at an upper court, and an application for the stay of order at the Federal High Court does not vacate or serve as a stay of the subsisting order of the lower court. “I have also been advised by my solicitors that the conduct of the primaries with AD-HOC Delegates as proposed by the Party shall be in breach of the subsisting order and also a contempt of court with the consequences of nullifying the outcome of the primaries and therefore jeopardising the chances of our great Party fielding Candidates during the forthcoming election.” He further said: “I have also been advised that the Local Government Area Congresses that elected the One (1) National Delegate per Local Government, was largely made up of statutory delegates as voters as against the Electoral Act which does not recognise statutory delegates as voters in such election. “I am aware that the Party has resorted to this illegality due to the fact that the amended Electoral Act 2022 has not yet been signed into law by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria “Mr chairman sir, as a concerned party member, and an aspirant to the above stated Governorship Primary election of our great party, and a law-abiding citizen, I feel obliged to request that the Party: Obey and comply with the order in Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/606/22 “Suspend the conduct of the forthcoming primaries in Akwa Ibom State pending when the amended Electoral Act is signed into law by Mr President or until such a time the court would have heard and determine the above suit or in the alternative, explore other options as listed in the Electoral Act to conduct the Governorship Primary in Akwa Ibom State “Consequent upon the above sir, I convey to you my inability to take part in the scheduled primary election until such a time that the illegality mentioned herein is corrected. This is by no means a withdrawal of my aspiration from the Governorship contest of our great party. I am ready to stand the primary election anytime it is so scheduled in line with acceptable processes and in accordance with the laws of our nation.”