The Lagos State University Directorate of Advancement (LASUDA), Office of the Vice Chancellor, was at the Oriwu Club, Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area, Lagos for the 7th Free medical outreach. The three-day-long event was held between Wednesday, 11th and Friday, 13th May 2022 in pursuit of one of LASU’s cardinal objectives of effecting mutually beneficial Gown and Town relationship. -Advertisement- Welcoming the LASUDA team, to the Oriwu Club venue of the medical reach-out at Ikorodu, the Chairman of Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area, Hon. Adeola Adebisi Banjo affirmed the general saying that “Health is Wealth”, even as he added that the Ikorodu North LCDA was committed to ensuring easy access to health care services. He informed the beneficiaries of the health programme that the LCDA, planned to improve the availability and accessibility of health care in the community as well as create more awareness for regular health check-ups. POLL He thanked the Lagos State University Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji – Bello, the Director of LASUDA, Prof. Yinka Okubena – Dipeolu, members of the LASUDA team and the university community for the great opportunity given to the LCDA to host the special event for the people. “We will continue to make sure that we make health services available, accessible and affordable for our people…my people do take care of yourselves and live good.” ; he said. The Director, LASUDA, Prof. Yinka Okubena – Dipeolu thanked the Chairman of the LCDA and his team for the warm reception accorded her team. She disclosed: “…this is the first LCDA that has single-handedly bankrolled the programme. In most cases, the university would always support, but for Ikorodu North LCDA, the Chairman paid the bills.” The Director equally appreciated the Chairman for embracing the health programme saying “You have a Chairman that has a heart for the people of his community…we have done this health programme in Ikeja, now Ikorodu and the next one will be in Epe by next week.” She was impressed by the great turnout of members of the community for the unique exercise. Health Talks were also impressively delivered by the Medical Officer of Health (MOH), Ikorodu North LCDA, Dr. Kehinde Ososanya, Specialist Consultant Anatomy and Pathologist, Dr. Ajibola Bakre, and the Assistant Director, Graduate Support Unit, Lagos State University Directorate of Advancement (LASUDA), Dr. Omowunmi Bakare. The Free medical Outreach Mission include Weight, Height, Blood Pressure, Blood Glucose, HIV Test, Hepatitis B Test, Eye Screening, Breast Cancer Screening, Cervical Screening and Prostrate Cancer Screening. The programme was attended by the Vice Chairman, Ikorodu North LCDA, Hon. Al – Amin Apanishile, Supervisor for Health, Hon. Abiodun Salau, Special Adviser, WAPA, Hon. Adewunmi Basirat and Members of the Executive Committee of the LCDA. Close to Three Hundred (300) members of Ikorodu North LCDA, Lagos took part in the health programme. The LASUDA Team at the event include the Assistant Directors: Dr. Abiodun Fatai – Abatan (Endowment and Grants), and Dr. Funmi Ometan (Resource Mobilisation Unit). Others are Senior Assistant Registrar, Mr. Taiwo Peters, Assistant Chief Executive Officer (Bursary)/Finance Officer LASUDA, Mrs. Abolore Aregbe, Administrative Officer 11, Miss. Halimat Rufai, Miss. Elizabeth Onasanya (Intern) at LASUDA. Mr. Olufemi Akanbi, Mr. Ashele Babatunde of the University Multimedia Centre (UMC), Chief Assistant Secretariat Officer (CASO), Mrs. Mosunmola Durodola and Assistant Chief Executive Officer (Information)/Head Media Relations, Mr. Olaniyi S. Jeariogbe were part of the team to Ikorodu North LCDA, Lagos. 