The National Executive Committee of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) will today take a decision on zoning its presidential ticket ahead of the much anticipated 2023 general elections. Daily Independent gathered that the meeting will be held today, Wednesday at the national headquarters of the party in Abuja. Issues billed for discussion at the gathering are the vexed issue of zoning after the 37-member committee led by the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom submitted its report to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. -Advertisement- The party has, however, said that the NEC has the final say on the zoning issue. Another issue that would be discussed is the venue where the presidential primary fixed for May 28 and 29, this year would be held. Party sources said the romance of former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan with the APC as to the 2023 presidency would also be discussed. Ahead of the meeting, members of the two main organs of the party, the NWC and the Board of Trustees (BoT) are also said to be divided over the various presidential aspirants. It could be recalled that 17 persons had picked the presidential forms of the party. Two were disqualified by the screening committee chaired by a former Senate President, David Mark. The aspirants have been going around the country to woo delegates as the date for the primary draws closer. POLL A leader of the party, however, said that there was nothing new on zoning because, “What can you zone now after selling forms to everybody; to every aspirant. People from the South, North, and everywhere have bought forms, so what are you going to tell them. Even when your strong aspirants are from the North, how do you zone to the South? “I can tell you APC refused to zone because PDP has not zoned. They want to force PDP to the South. But the party does not want to be forced.” The source also said the consensus arrangement was not dead and disclosed that “The final week to the primary is very crucial. I can tell you that a lot of things will still happen. The aspirants were 17, they said two have been disqualified, I can tell you that all the 15 will not go into the election. Contacted, spokesperson of the party, Debo Ologunagba, said there was a process in the party and that all information would have to wait till after the NEC meeting.