***Orders Security Agencies To Fish Out Perpetrators Of The Violent Clash BAUCHI – The Bauchi State Government has ordered security agencies in the state to fish out the perpetrators of last Friday violent clash at Yelwa area of Bauchi state which claimed the lives of three persons with valuable properties destroyed. The Government who made the declaration when he visited the affected areas in Yelwa community of Bauchi metropolis, stated that his government will not condole any act of violence that ends up in the destruction of lives and properties, adding his government will continue to maintain the peace in the state no matter the cost. -Advertisement- While addressing the community, Governor Mohammed regretted the unfortunate incident, saying that his administration will establish Police outpost in the areas to further provide security to the people. He also said that government will take full inventory of all the loses with a view to providing palliative measures to the affected people stressing that security agents will intensify more surveillance and search on those responsible. The governor who addressed the community members separately enjoined them to be their brothers keepers irrespective of any difference even as he enjoined parents and other stakeholders to ensure the proper upbringing of their children and wards for sustainable growth and development. “We must learn to live together as one Irrespective of any difference for peace to reign supreme and to enable Government continue with the good work it is doing”, he said. On the 24hrs curfew imposed on the area, the Governor said that it will continue for a few days until normalcy returns to the area saying, “we did not do it to make you suffer, it is for our collective good. We will closely monitor the situation and review it appropriately”. POLL While at Lukshi which was the center of the clash, Bauchi State Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda told the Governor that the civil unrest occurred as a result of rivalry between the warring youths because of a lady. He further said that two lives were lost , several houses burnt with properties worth millions of Naira were destroyed. The Police Commissioner then warned that people should avoid taking the laws into their hands and that the law will take its full course on anyone found wanting in the cause of the clash. Stakeholders from the areas during the visit commended Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed for his support and concern pledging to work towards achieving lasting peace and stability.