Abakaliki – Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State on Sunday insisted that South-East should be allowed to produce the next president of Nigeria for justice, equity and fairness. Umahi said South-East cannot be ruled out in deciding the region to produce the next president if truly Nigerian leaders were sincere about the issue of equity, fairness and justice. He spoke in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, when the Central Working Committee (CWC) of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and that of Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), who were in the state for their quarterly meeting, paid him a courtesy call. -Advertisement- He called on the people of the country to not only consider equity and justice in choosing the next president of the country but to also look into the credentials, performances, capabilities and experience of all those vying to be next president of Nigeria, insisting that only the best is good for the country at the moment. He challenged journalists to project only good materials for the people to make their choices in the general election and called on the electorate not to allow money moneybag politicians influence their choice of leader. Umahi said, “My heart bleeds for this country, to be very frank, because, in this quest to be the candidates of various parties, I got exposed to the nakedness of this country and the insincerity of this country and I saw a people that are driven by money. The measure of how strong you are is driven by how much you have and I began to ask question, where did all these monies come from? Which of us has companies before? Which of us has N100 million before? “When we talk about capacities and qualities of who can take this country to the next level and I said look, it comes to the issue of equity, fairness and justice, you cannot rule out South-East and you began to say who are the people that are capable to rule this country? And I said okay, let us leave out the issue of fairness, equity and justice.”