ABUJA – Staff and residents of the Federal Government Girls College in Bwari took to the streets to protest an astronomically high anticipated electricity bill. Protesters who took to the streets when AEDC officials came to turn off their light demanded that the officials should remove their meter, which they claimed was an industrial meter. They called the AEDC’s excessive anticipated prices ‘criminal and unfair,’ and demanded that prepaid meters be made accessible to them immediately. -Advertisement- Speaking on behalf of the protesting staff and residents, the Union, Chairman of Federal Government Girls College, Bwari, Ajiloye Samuel lamented that despite the fact that each residents are forced to pay 6,000-7,000 naira monthly which amounts to 300,000 in total; the AEDC still insists they have an outstanding bill of 5 million naira. Ajiloye further noted that the school and residents have resolved to intensify their agitation until all the illegalities of the AEDC are addressed. According to him, “We are agitating for the light bill which the AEDC is giving us the residents and staff, the bill is too much for us and we are saying that we cannot pay the bills again because its too high. ” They’re giving us industrial bills from an industrial meter in which we are not manufacturing anything in school. We are all residents like any other customer in the town. So we are now telling them that, we held a meeting with all the residential staff on Wednesday and agreed that when they come to cut the light, they should also carry  their industrial meter away. We cannot service the industrial meter. “From 2019, we have been servicing industrial meter and each year we pay 6000 naira and at the end, they’ll be bringing bill of 700,000-800,000 nairab for about 52 houses. This is after all of us have paid 6000 naira amounting to over 300,000 and our bill is accumulating. POLL “The school had to set up a tax force that they should go and take inventory in each houses to know what each residents is using and at the end of the tax force assignment, the AEDC are now bringing new bill that some houses are paying 27,000 naira per month. We cannot cope again”, he added.