ISAAC ASABOR As gathered from a recently posted video on social media platforms by a medical doctor and health information enthusiast, Dr. Chinonso Egemba, parents were advised to stop using bleaching creams on their children to enhance their complexion or risk putting their kidneys in danger. Egemba, popularly known as ‘Aproko Doctor’, said parents are in the habit of buying bleaching creams under the guise of ‘glowing kits’ to lighten the complexion of their children. -Advertisement- He said: “when you use bleaching kits because that’s what it is, it is not glowing, it is not recolor, it is not freshening neither is it lightening, it’s bleaching.” “Whenever you use bleaching cream for your children, you’re putting their kidneys at risk. Because some of these bleaching creams contain certain enzymes that go and cause, for example, nephrotic syndrome in children.” He stated that the colour children are born with is their natural color and there’s no need to put children’s lives in danger because parents are under pressure to lighten their skin color so they could be accepted in certain circles. It would be recalled that for many years now, creams containing hydroquinone appear to have been regarded as products that pose challenges to regulatory bodies and medical experts. The reason for being seen in that light cannot be far-fetched as creams that contain hydroquinone are by each passing day becoming both buyers’ and sellers’ delight as well being considered to be among consumer goods that sell quickly at relatively low price. POLL Undoubtedly, the foregoing seeming market rating of cream that contains hydroquinone has contributed to the sustained shelf presence of the beauty products that have being pronounced dangerous; both by regulatory bodies, and medical doctors. Despite the campaign, which the National Agency for Foods and Drugs Administration and Control, NAFDAC, has periodically launched against the importation, manufacturing, sales and purchase of beauty creams containing hydroquinone, bleaching creams, also known as skin lighteners, whiteners, brighteners or fading creams are unarguably ubiquitous on shelves found across supermarket and cosmetics shops. Defiantly ignoring warnings regularly issued by dermatologists, not few users of bleaching creams are erroneously of the view that bleaching creams help in the treatment of skin problems such as freckles, age spots, acne scars or discoloration related to hormones. Hydroquinone is no doubt one of the most common and most harmful ingredients in skin bleaching products. It is used for lightening the skin, or to fade out spots, scars, and other blemishes and discolorations. In addition to its use in skin lighteners it can also be found in facial and skin cleansers, and facial moisturizers, although its use in many of these type of products is being phased out. It would be recalled that NAFDAC has for the umpteenth time cautioned the public against the use of skin lightning creams containing hydroquinone above two per cent’ that are dangerous to health. In such warnings, the regulatory agency had always reiterated that such creams have adverse effects on health, and added that the creams do not only destroy the skin, but also destroy the organs specifically targeting the kidney. While warning that lightning creams containing hydroquinone above two percent are dangerous to health, NAFDAC has always insisted that the chemical damages respiratory, kidney and reproductive systems. NAFDAC has always urged stakeholders to assist in its fight against importation, selling and use of hydroquinone into the country. However, despite NAFDAC’s importunate warnings, bleaching creams, which contain hydroquinone, has for ages remained fast moving consumer goods in most cosmetic shops. It would be recalled that besides NAFDAC’s importunate warning on the use of bleaching creams that the leadership of the Nigerian Association of Dermatologists (NAD) on its part has for the umpteenth time raised concerns over the influx of skin bleaching products in the country. The professional body of medical doctors specialised in the field of dermatology: the branch of medicine concerned with disorders and care of the skin, hair, nails, mucous membranes, and sexually transmitted diseases has noticed in recent times, an increase in the variety of skin lightening products and procedures flooding the Nigerian market, all promising a fairer or lighter and purportedly more beautiful skin. In one of its series of warnings, Dr. Grace C. Okudo, president, NAD, said, “These products and procedures are advertised and marketed by people who claim to be skin experts or sometimes calling themselves dermatologists. “They advertise these products and procedures as safe to use and undergo with no harmful side effects. Some products are promoted and sold in the guise of being all natural (or organic), thus presumably harmless, adding that these products, procedures and promoters are unfortunately not well regulated in the society. It will also be recalled in this context that NAFDAC had has specifically warned Nigerians against the use of BB Glow Soul body cream for skin whitening. Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, NAFDAC Director-General, at the time issued the warning in a statement that the agency was informed that the cream had been banned by the Malaysian National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency after finding out it was dangerous to health. According to a report containing collective views of an international group of experts that include the United Nations Environment Programme, the International Labour Organisation and the World Health Organisation, repeated or prolonged contact of hydroquinone with skin may cause dermatitis and skin sensitisation. The report warned that the substance may have effects on the eye and skin, resulting in discoloration of the conjunctiva and cornea, loss of vision, skin depigmentation, and discoloration of nails and hair. Adeyeye said the product was found to contain hydroquinone and tretinoin, which could cause redness of the skin, hypersensitivity, and increase the risk of skin cancer. The NAFDAC DG at the time encouraged healthcare professionals and consumers to report adverse effects of the product to the nearest NAFDAC office. As warned by Adeyeye, “Hydroquinone causes redness of the skin, discomfort, unwanted skin changes; the skin becomes hypersensitive, and can prevent pigmentation (depigmentation). It could also reduce skin protection against harmful ultraviolet rays. “The use of tretinoin without the supervision of health professionals can cause the skin to be reddish, uncomfortable, painful, peeling and hypersensitive to sunlight. “NAFDAC implores importers, distributors and retailers to immediately stop the importation, distribution and sale of BB Glow Soul cream cosmetic products. “Any member of the public in possession of the implicated cosmetic products is implored to submit them to the nearest NAFDAC office”. World health bodies recommended that over-the-counter sales of creams containing hydroquinone should be restricted. This is even as they called for health education programmes to be developed to discourage the use of hydroquinone-containing creams for whole-body skin lightening. Tretinoin, according to online portal Healthline, is a prescription-strength topical cream or gel, used mainly to treat acne, sun-damaged skin, and fine wrinkles. It warned that the treatment works by irritating the skin, adding, “Tretinoin is able to speed up the life cycle of skin cells. It makes them divide faster and die faster, so newer, healthier cells can take their place. “Tretinoin is a synthetic version of vitamin A. It’s stronger, and you need a prescription from your doctor for this medication.” Unarguably to supportively reinforced NAFDAC’s efforts in discouraging consumers from patronising bleaching products, Mr. Fred Udoka, said the availability and affordability of these bleaching creams has not been helping matter, and thus urged the government to impose overbearing tax or tariff on its local production and imports. On another note he said: “There is need for more public awareness programmes to enlighten the Nigeria populace about the dangers involved in the practice of skin bleaching, and in the same vein suggested that “The media could do more sensitisation, information and enlightenment programmes to let the public know that the practice is not only destructive of the skin, but could also be a risk factor for many other skin diseases.”