YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Gov­ernor, Douye Diri, said on Thursday that no region could produce the president of the country without the support of other regions. He said that the demand of the southern governors that the presidency be zoned to the South cannot be achieved without the support of the North and vice versa. Diri stated this when a Peo­ples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant and Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, visited him in Yenagoa on Thursday. -Advertisement- He urged PDP members to collectively work for the suc­cess of the party at the 2023 presidential election, noting that as an opposition party what should be paramount was how to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) which, he said, had lost grip of governance in all as­pects. While restating the call for the PDP to zone the presiden­cy to the south, Diri stressed the need for political offices to be rotated among different parts of the country to ensure equity, fairness and justice as exemplified by the PDP in its last national convention. He, however, noted that God remained the ultimate decision maker on who be­comes the PDP flag-bearer and that he would support whoever emerged as the par­ty’s choice. The governor urged his Bauchi counterpart to speak on issues about the party and how to better the lot of Nige­rians, saying that the world and Nigerians were looking up to the PDP to salvage the country from total collapse occasioned by the bad gover­nance of the AP? He said, “Even in our quest for a southern presi­dent, we need the north. We have to court the north, speak with the north and whoever that God so appoints to be the president. POLL “But let us all caution ourselves that we are in op­position. It appears some of us still do not understand that fact. We should be talking about ‘We’ and not necessarily ‘I’ .At the end of the day, the fi­nal decider is God. If God de­cides it won’t be a president from the south, we cannot run away from that decision. We will stand by our party and work with that person.”