Doris Ijeome Okeke, the Chief Executive Officer of Oma Kitchen, a restaurant located in Ajao estate area of Lagos, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the need to provide quality services for the sustenance of a business, providing unique services that will increase patronage among other issues. Excerpts: Can you speak about your journey into the catering business? I love cooking as a person which is the starting point and when people eat my food they appreciate it. -Advertisement- I will start by saying that passion pushed me into the business. I have a diploma in public administration from the University of Nigeria Nsukka and when it was difficult to get a paid job. I went to an aviation school, into ticketing precisely. I saved from the revenue generated from the ticketing business to establish Oma Kitchen two years ago. Though I am still in my ticketing business, I devote a lot of my time to the restraint business. Oma Kitchen is two years old now and it has witnessed tremendous growth. Apart from my savings, I also borrowed some money from the sterling bank to take off. I have since paid off the loan because the duration was for one year. You said that you like cooking which is the reason you went into the catering business, how has the journey been so far? I will say, ‘so far so good’ because the business enjoys good patronage from our customers. POLL They will always commend the food as delicious after eating. Like I said earlier, passion pushed me into restaurant business. People always commend my cooking and so I told myself that I could translate the passion into money making. The business didn’t start by accident. It is something I love doing and so that was the inspiration. People like my cooking and somehow they encouraged me to go into the business. I have a lot of new customers through referrals. What is the scope of your business? We have this branch now and we have plans of opening more branches in the near future. We provide indoor and outdoor catering services. We have been able to serve a large crowd successfully and we have the opportunity of even serving customers outside the state. Presently we have six staff on our monthly payroll and over five indirect persons have been benefiting from our patronage by way of contract. We have about ten staff who we engage when we are providing outdoor services, although they are not on monthly payroll, but they depend on us for some sort of employment. We have done well so far in terms of customer service from the feedback that we get from our customers even though there is still room for improvement. What are the challenges that you have in this business? The major challenge that we have in this business is electricity. We spend so much every day to power our generating set. I must tell you that it is a big setback. Fuelling consumes a greater chunk of our profit, it is unimaginable to spend over N150,000 every month just to fuel our generating set. It is unfortunate that a lot of businesses have closed down as a result of epileptic power supply from Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). Assuming we have constant electricity supply here, two restaurant operators can pull resources together, buy a cow, preserve the meat in the refrigerator and that would have lowered their cost of operation. There are so many things that one can buy in large quantities and enjoy economies of scale. I think that the government can do well if it begins to consider ways of providing infrastructure for businesses to thrive. In this business, for example, we need power to do so much, preserve our food stuff; we would need power to make the place conducive for our customers to relax when they come. The government would have helped us to keep some of the profit we make if the infrastructure is on ground. So many businesses are struggling to survive because of lack of power. You can imagine how many jobs that would be created if there was a regular power supply. You can also imagine the impact on the economy and the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) The inflation rate is close to 17 percent now and it is taking its tow on food items. How has that affected your business? The inflation rate is unprecedentedly high and I would say that we have never experienced that in a long time in this country. When you buy something today, by the time you get to the market the next day the price has doubled. I will give you an example, a measure of beans used to sell for N300 but today it is N500. Everything in the market is very expensive. We also have to increase our prices and when customers complain we would explain to them. I don’t think that there is anybody in this country who is not aware of the difficult time. We were compelled to increase our price but the good thing about our kitchen is that we have maintained our standard. If a customer gets value for his money he will be loyal to your business. If you want to keep your customers, provide quality service. In specific terms, what are the things that have sustained your business? I mentioned earlier that a business can grow fast once customers can get value for their money. I would say that if you want to grow your business you must be knowledgeable about that business. You must pay your staff promptly. You mustn’t lower your standard. I did say earlier that the rate of inflation is such that has never been witnessed before in this country, we did not lower our standard, and we only increased our price by 25 percent. A very fast way to kill your business is to lower your standard. When customers fail to see those things that attracted them to your business they will naturally withdraw and that is when people begin to notice that their businesses are going down. Another important thing that I do is to plough back my profit into the business. If you want to grow your business then you must learn to plough back your profit into the business and secondly you should inject new capital for sustained growth. You need patience to run this business, and should be able to tolerate people. You have to tolerate your customers, your staff and the public that you interact with in the course of your business. Another thing is that I feel happy satisfying my customers, once I have served them, I am encouraged. Any business that must survive should have unique selling points. Everything about our kitchen is special. The feedback that we get from our customers is so encouraging. Our catfish pepper soup is a ‘must eat’. When you tell somebody you want to eat cat fish pepper soup, he will quickly recommend Oma kitchen. Our native soups are just too special. The bitter leaf soup and oha soup, just to name a few, are homemade meals. I am from Anambra State and when you talk about the real bitter leaf soup popularly called ‘onubgu’ you will get it here. Our ‘nkwogbu’ is just the best. Where will Oma Kitchen be in the next couple of years? We hope to have more branches that can be accessible tpo our customers wherever they are. Our product is good and I am sure that our customers will be too happy to have us in other locations so that wherever they are they will have the opportunity to enjoy our meal.