AGOS – Chairman of Ojodu Local Government Area of Lagos State. Hon Odubakun on Wednesday, May 4, 2022, allegedly assaulted editor of The Supreme Newspaper, Mr. Aruga Joe Omokaro. It was gathered that the incident occurred at about 11.35 a.m. while the editor was at Ogba Bus Stop and the chairman who was riding in a black truck with tinted glasses and two other cars following, drove one way from Ogba Bus Stop while entering Mokuolu Street. Omokaro said three traffic police officers in uniform (two are ASPs) from the Area G Police Command were said to have stopped the truck carrying the chairman and directed the driver to go back and take proper turning, but the driver refused. -Advertisement- Apparently, the chairman would have ordered him not to mind the police. The police officers insisted on not allowing the vehicle and the two others to take ‘one way.’ At that point a scene was created and people gathered to know who was taking laws into his hand and will not obey the police. He added that one of the police officers went to the door to find out who the important person was. Unfortunately, the chairman refused to wind down to introduce himself. Suddenly, a police Inspector came down, saluted the superior officers and introduced the occupant in the truck as Ojodu LG Chairman. POLL “The officers allowed him to pass. Surprisingly, he drove forward a bit, stopped and came back with his thugs to justify his action, and told the police that he was on an emergency. The officers then told him that he ought to have initially introduced himself to avoid curious crowd. At that point, the editor and some passers-by supported the police and told him that he supposed to show good example by his status. Just then he asked the editor furiously, “Who are you to challenge me?” The editor replied, “l am a journalist.” And he retorted, “You are a stupid journalist.” And two of his political thugs came down and seized the editor’s shirt against his neck; another came and slapped him on his neck, while shouting “stupid journalist, useless journalist, who cares if you are a journalist; is local government chairman your mate?” Without asking for his identification card, the third person came attempted to seize his phone while he wanted to video the scene, and threatened to order the thugs to beat him up.