DAMATURU – Five persons died while no fewer than 41 persons who were injured were admitted at the Specialist Hospital, Damaturu, Yobe State, following a downpour and thunderstorm. Dr. Mohammed Goje, Executive Secretary of the Yobe State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) confirmed the incident to Daily Independent in Damaturu Tuesday. Goje said, “SEMA responded to victims of building collapse due to heavy windstorm and rainfall. Search and rescue team of Yobe State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) on May 9, 2022, responded to a distress call by Good Samaritans and supported the evacuation of victims to Yobe State Specialist Hospital.” -Advertisement- He revealed, “A total of five persons died (two boys, one adult woman and two girls) while 41 victims are from six different communities/locations (Waziri Ibrahim Extension, Abbari Extension, NayiNawa, Pompomari, House of Assembly quarters, Gujba Road and Maisandari) were evacuated. Goje added that all victims were receiving treatment free and already 23 were discharged from the hospital. Checks revealed that the thunderstorm fell on a 22-year old Goni Kallumi of Tsamiyan Lilo, Damaturu leading to death. Visit to Nayinawa Bulabulin showed the effects of the windstorm on the electric poles with so many houses affected by the flood mostly mud houses. Meanwhile, Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, has commiserated with the families of five persons who died from building collapse following heavy rainstorm in Damaturu yesterday. POLL Governor Buni who spoke through the Director-General Press and Media Affairs, Mamman Mohammed described the incident as sad and unfortunate, said it is will of Almighty Allah. “It is very sad losing the victims in this very unfortunate natural disaster but that is the decreed time by the Almighty. “We pray to Allah (SWT) to forgive their shortcomings and to grant their families the fortitude to bear the loss,” Governor Buni prayed. He also sympathised with those who were injured and prayed for their quick recovery. The governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to ensure treatment of those who were injured and to provide the victims with emergency relief materials to cushion their hardships.