The Ekiti State Governor and presidential aspirant, Dr Kayode Fayemi has said that the reason why he is vying for the position of the president in the 2023 general elections is that he has what it takes to solve the challenges of security bedevilling the nation. Fayemi who is one of the aspirants jostling for the presidential ticket on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stated this in Bauchi while addressing national delegates and other stakeholders of the party in the state. The Governor said that he has helped many countries that had security challenges in the past to resolve their issues, adding that he has bagged a PhD in security studies. -Advertisement- “So, for me, every day revolves around this party and this party has given me all of what I can live into, so it is important that whatever we do, we build it on the strength of this party and address whatever the gaps are in this country”. “Our aspiration is to continue from where the President will stop in May 2023. We will quickly fill out the gaps that must have been created and left behind. We will build on the gains of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and address the gaps that our people have highlighted across the country “. ”Not everything has been done because the government is an unfinished project, it only those who have the requisite knowledge, capacity, experience, expertise and passion for the ordinary Nigerians and integrity that will be able to address these issues” “I will like to say that by my training, my experience and knowledge, I have what it takes to make a fundamental difference in the life of our people. That is why what I have come to share with you is called ‘My pact with the All Progressives Congress’ and I believe that has been shared. I hope our leaders will take the time to go through and see some of the issues I highlighted in the document” “But I have been fortunate to have worked in various capacities, I used to be an agitator fighting for democracy in Nigeria in the military days. I used to run something called Radio Kudirat when we were fighting the military for annulling June 12” POLL “I have been a consistent card carrier before becoming a politician. As a young student leader, a pro-democracy crusader and many other things that eventually brought us into politics” he said He emphasized that there are three major factors that need urgent attention in the country which are security, power supply and the creation of employment opportunities for the teeming youths in the country. Talking to the delegates in order to woo them, he said, “It is always a delight to be in Bauchi, about a month ago, I was in Azare when one of our leaders, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu gave out his daughter in marriage”.“To be back here in Bauchi is very heartwarming. My name is Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ekiti State and the Chairman of Nigeria’s Governors. I was a pioneer Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, a foundation member of this great party of ours and the Chairman of the presidential primaries in 2014 that produced Muhammadu Buhari as the candidate of our party”, he added. According to him, he has served the party in various capacities including Director of Strategy, Research and Policy during the presidential campaign in 2015, adding that he worked with some of his colleagues in Bauchi in the person of Dr Bar, Sen Shuaibu and Abubakar Kari on the manifestos and other policies of the government. He then solicited the support of the national delegates from Bauchi state during the party primaries urging them to cast their votes for him in order to become the party’s presidential candidate in the general elections.