Seplat Energy Plc, says its proposed acquisition of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited would multiple its production and double its reserves on a pro forma 2020 basis. This is just as the energy company said the acquisition remains on course and it’s awaiting the necessary approvals from government and regulators and expect the transaction to complete in the second half of this year. Mr. Roger Brown, Chief Executive Officer, Seplat Energy Plc, who disclosed these while announcing the company’s unaudited results for the three months ended 31 March 2022. -Advertisement- He also said the acquisition will reinforce our leadership of Nigeria’s indigenous energy sector and enabling us to generate strong future cash flows that will underpin our investment in Nigeria’s energy transition and improve our overall stakeholder returns. He added:”It will also bring a significant undeveloped gas resource base which, alongside our ANOH gas project development, will underpin Nigeria’s energy transition and drive domestic and export revenues when developed. “We announce the decision to divest the Group’s interest in the Ubima marginal field for a consideration of $55million, which marginally reduces the company’s 2P reserves by 2 MMboe to 455 MMboe. “We have proven we have the financial strength and credibility to attract international finance into Nigeria’s energy sector and this will help us in our aim to deliver energy transition and provide cleaner, more reliable and more affordable energy for Nigeria’s young and growing population.” He said Seplat Energy delivered a good quarter that benefited from higher oil pricing, which offset lower production owing to continuing problems with the Trans Forcados Pipeline. POLL According to him, the alternative Amukpe-Escravos Pipeline is mechanically complete,adding that once the company signed the commercial agreements, Chevron will be lifting its oil through the Escravos Terminal in the third quarter. Daily Independent reports that the company recorded a rise in profit before tax by 197.8 per cent to N34.7bn from N10.6bn year-on-year. It also generated cash from its operations to the tune of N74.4bn from N1.7bn year-on-year, rising by 197.8 per cent. The energy company’s also grew its revenue by 58.6 per cent to N100.6bn from N57.9bn year-on-year; as its gross profit soars to N48.8bn from N20.1bn year-on-year, rising by 122.3 per cent.