AKINWUNMI KING As President Muhammadu Buhari winds up his eight-year tenure in May 2023, political analysts and observers are of the view that the race for the president’s successor appears to have become an all-comers’ affair in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as the list of the presidential aspirants as at Tuesday, when the sale of the presidential nomination/expression of interest forms closed, stood at over 20, despite the exorbitant cost of the forms. As at Tuesday, those who had obtained the forms include Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State; Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State; Orji Kalu, former Abia governor and serving senator; Rochas Okorocha, former Imo governor and senator, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State; Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation; and Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment. -Advertisement- Others include Kayode Fayemi, Ekiti State governor; Adams Oshiomhole, former national chairman of the party; Godswill Akpabio, minister of Niger Delta affairs; Muhammed Badaru Abubakar, Jigawa State Governor; Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, a human rights activist and businessman; Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, Minister of State for Education, and Ibikunle Amosun, former governor of Ogun State. Also in the race are Ahmed Lawan, the Senate president; Ben Ayade, Cross River governor; Pastor Tunde Bakare; Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation; Former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Dimeji Bankole, former Speaker, House of Representatives; and Uju Kennedy, the only female aspirant. A Crowded Field Meanwhile, the unsettling number of aspirants jostling to take over from Buhari has raised concerns on the real motives of many of the aspirants who observers see as pretenders rather than contenders. While some analysts believe that some of these aspirants are in the race to truncate the likely chances of others. Many analysts also argue that some want to use their presidential bid to negotiate for other positions in order to remain relevant after 2023. Despite this worry, there are those who believe that the more the number of aspirants, the merrier it is for the ruling party. One of the frontline aspirants and APC’s National Leader, Tinubu, recently described the rising number of aspirants vying for the party’s presidential ticket as a plus for Nigeria’s democracy. POLL While reacting to the rising number of aspirants after a meeting with Buhari penultimate Tuesday, the former Lagos State governor said: “The more the merrier. The more they come, the more challenging it becomes for you to think deeply, focus on issues, and be ready to serve Nigeria. “It’s all about service; it’s nothing else. Think wisely, get committed to your thinking to serve the nation and bring progress and prosperity to the lives of Nigerians. “It’s good for the country for so many of us to aspire to want to lead; we are not abandoning our nation. But there’s only one chair and one possibility. We will do that.” Speaking in the same vein, Fayemi, who is also an aspirant, justified the number of aspirants for the APC presidential ticket, saying the 2023 general election is about the ruling party. The Ekiti State governor who stated this while receiving members of the National Prosperity Movement from North-East and North-West at his campaign office in Abuja, said: “We are once again in the throes of another national electoral cycle at which Nigerians across the length and breadth of the nation will be called upon to designate their preferred choice for the leadership of our beloved country. “As can be expected, our great party, the APC, will be a key factor and actor in the election. And that is as it should be, given that we are the ruling party at the federal level and responsible for governing 22 states in the federation. Easily, we are the most national of parties. We also remain the most sought-after political association in the land. “It will not be an exaggeration, and I know most of you will agree as well, that given our present preponderance in the national political system, the forthcoming election will be very much about us as a party as about anything else. “Nigerians reposed considerable trust in us when they voted us into office in 2015 and renewed our national mandate in 2019. That trust also came with and continues to carry enormous responsibility that we have tried, even in the face of various odds, to discharge as faithfully as possible. As it is, all things considered, we are the party to beat in 2023.” Plethora Of Endorsements In an attempt to perhaps discourage the aspirants, the ruling party leadership had jacked up the cost of the expression of interest and nomination forms for the presidential aspirants to a whopping sum of N100 million, but despite overcoming the astronomical raising of the nomination form fee, the aspirants appear to be confused following President Buhari’s technical endorsements of almost all the aspirants. As it was gathered from reliable sources, there is every likelihood of a repeat of what played out during the party’s national convention when President Buhari unilaterally anointed Senator Abdullahi Adamu and tactically intimidated other aspirants into withdrawing from the race. Faced with the uncertainties, the aspirants, in a desperate attempt to outsmart one another, have continued to drop the name of Mr. President as well as playing the ethnic card to gain advantage. Some political analysts have hinted that the failure of the leadership of the ruling party to streamline the number of contestants like the previous ruling parties in the country, would lead to rancorous presidential primary and protracted litigations which could mar the chances of the party in the 2023 general election. Even the elders and leaders of southern Nigeria have raised concern that the high number of aspirants from the south could divide the southern delegates and give the North an advantage in the APC primary. This fear is further fuelled by the fact that the ruling party has refused to expressly zone the ticket to the South. President Buhari may have used his technical endorsement of almost all the aspirants to boost his democratic credentials but observers are of the view that such act was a recipe for crisis in the ruling party. However, to prevent any unforeseen crisis, the ruling party has released nine guidelines for the conduct of presidential, governorship and parliamentary aspirants ahead of primaries. The contenders have been barred from going to court without first exhausting avenues for redress and ventilation of grievances. The aspirants are also expected to sign an undertaking to accept the outcomes of the shadow polls and support whoever emerges as a candidate for the general election. The ruling party also directed them to take an oath not to engage in thuggery, anti-party activities, factionalisation or the creation of parallel congresses and party organs at any level. These conditions are contained on page 17 of the nomination form given to the aspirants. But of the nine conditions, most of the aspirants, especially presidential heavyweights, are uncomfortable with the ‘voluntary letter of withdrawal’, which they are expected to sign before a Commissioner for Oaths or a Notary Public. They allege that the withdrawal clause may lead to either imposition of a presidential candidate or abuse of the consensus clause in the Electoral Act 2022. It was learnt that most presidential aspirants have been seeking legal advice on Page 18 of the nomination form, which they consider a booby trap. A copy of the nomination forms reveal the tough terms for aspirants who have paid humongous sums to participate in the primaries. Although APC leadership claim that the conditions are in line with Article 21. 2 (i-xii) of the APC Constitution, many aspirants fault the conditions as inconsistent with fundamental human rights as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution. The conditions are: “Abide to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the APC and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Abide by the Primary election guidelines of APC and Nigerian Electoral Act. “Abide to place APC above selfish interests, “I, my primary campaign organization, and my supporters undertake to accept the outcome of the primary and support whoever emerges as APC candidate for the general election. “Abide not to engage in dishonest practices, thuggery, being absent from meetings to which he/ she is invited without reasonable cause; carrying out anti-party activities which tend to disrupt the peaceful, lawful and efficient organisation of the party or which are inconsistent with the aims and objectives of the party. “Abide not to give wrong information to any organ of the party or unauthorised publicity of a party dispute without exhausting all avenues or settlement or redress within the party. “Abide not to file any action in a court of law against the party or any of its officers on any matters relating to the discharge of the duties of the party without first exhausting all avenues for redress provided. “Abide to always follow the path of justice, honesty and unity amongst fellow contestants and party members. So help me God. “Abide not to factionalise or create a parallel congress, election, or party organ at any level.” The aspirants, especially presidential contenders, have picked holes in Page 18 of the nomination form bordering on signing a voluntary letter of withdrawal before participating in the forthcoming exercise. The letter, titled: Letter of Voluntary Withdrawal, states: “I…of the above address…vying for…hereby voluntarily withdraw my candidacy from the contest…scheduled to hold on…2023. My withdrawal is in the best interest of our great party, the APC.” Apart from addressing the letter to the National Chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, each aspirant is expected to endorse the letter before a Commissioner for Oaths or Notary Public. It was learnt that most aspirants were shocked by the attachment to the party’s nomination form. A source said: “Most of the aspirants see it as a death warrant. The party can invoke the letter to disengage an aspirant from participating in any strand of the primaries. “Also, it gives the party the liberty to impose a candidate at any level under the guise of abiding by the consensus clause in the Electoral Act 2022. With the letter, the conditions for consensus will easily be met. “Technically, many aspirants see the letter as leaving their fate to the party. Other conditions have also boxed them into a tight corner. We have never had these draconian guidelines.” Sunday Independent also learnt that some aspirants have opted for legal advice on whether or not to sign the letter of withdrawal. An aide to a presidential aspirant told our correspondent on Monday that, “Our legal team, like those of others, is studying the implications of the letter. “I am aware that presidential aspirants have been comparing notes on the letter, which is unacceptable to them. “Although the party said the signing of the letter is optional, an aspirant will be submitting an incomplete nomination form without completing the letter. Such an aspirant can be disqualified. It is a tight situation. “None of the presidential aspirants has been able to submit his or her nomination form because of this letter of withdrawal. “Though the aspirants have up till May 11 to submit the form, they are making representation to the party leadership to have a rethink.” Another aspirant who has purchased the nomination form, said, “This is the first time we are seeing this kind of form for aspirants and we see it as an attempt to enforce consensus options through the back door. This is unconstitutional. “Signing that letter means the party leaders can impose any candidate and you will not have any right to challenge them in court. Something is fishy and we must be very careful because there are surreptitious moves not to allow delegates to decide the fate of aspirants.” Another source said, “It is only political appointees that could sign such a form because their appointment is at the mercy of the President or governor, but not an aspirant.” Anxiety Over Voluntary Letter Of Withdrawal A top APC member in Lagos, who spoke to our correspondent on Wednesday, described the withdrawal letter as an indemnity to prevent members from taking legal action against the party. A Lagos-based lawyer, Patrick Gongou, advised aspirants to be careful in signing the letter which, he said has grave implications to their aspirations, and to enforce free and fair primary. “This is an attempt to box them into a corner. A political party cannot approbate and reprobate,” he said. On his part, Barrister Abubakar Sani said the intention of the withdrawal letter may not be as bad as politicians are thinking, adding that it must be tested to see if it either violates the APC Constitution or 2022 Electoral Act or the 1999 Constitution. “We should not be sentimental about it. A political party is a voluntary association, which you can join or leave at your own volition but it is good to test the withdrawal letter to know if it violates any constitution.” Already, one of the aspirants, Adamu Garba has withdrawn from the race and dumped the APC, citing the N100 million cost of the party’s presidential forms as the main reason. Garba, who announced his defection from APC on Tuesday, explained that he would disclose his new party within the next few days, just as he advised those who had contributed money to his campaign to seek refund immediately. Speaking at a news conference in Abuja, he said, “We have recorded the sum of N81, 750,000.00 in private donations and N1,457,794.70 in online donations, totalling N83,207,794.70. “We sincerely, immensely, and graciously thank everyone for these wonderful contributions and donations, including those who made theirs anonymously. “We, however, request that all those who donated online and who require a refund send an email with evidence of payment to adamugarba@adamugarba.org and I assure you of a complete refund upon request. “Those that made private donations, we know them, we will meet them and settle this out.” Garba added, “Incidentally, if your donations are done for pursuing our course for the presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the coming 2023 election, the battle is not over yet. Kindly do bear with us for further directives in the coming days. “I deeply, immensely appreciate my supporters, friends, well-wishers, and the well-meaning Nigerian youth who contributed unceasingly to this journey. He alleged that the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) of APC had commercialised the process leading to the emergence of a credible candidate for the party in the 2023 presidential election. He also expressed fear that the leadership of the party could further compromise the process with the inclusion of the voluntary withdrawal form in the nomination and expression of interest forms. Garba predicted that the NWC might adopt consensus to pick an anointed candidate and ask other aspirants, who had obtained forms with N100 million, to seek refund. He maintained that the NWC’s latest directive that 10 statutory delegates must sign the forms of the aspirants had automatically made the party’s ticket accessible only to the highest bidder. According to Garba, “Information at our disposal has it that some aspirants are paying as much as N50, 000 to each statutory delegate to get their forms signed. “After high-level deliberation with our internal campaign team, we have concluded that we will not be obtaining the expression of interest and nomination form for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the platform of the APC.”