The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ogun State Chapter and the National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS) have beratedthe lawmakers representing the state at the National Assembly, describing them as the worst in the history of the state. The student body also accused them of working against the incumbent state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. They vowed to henceforth reject Federal lawmakers who are not living up to the expectations of the people of the state. -Advertisement- According to them, political parties should desist from fielding “passive” and “underperforming” candidates to represent the people of the state, particularly at the Federal level. They bemoaned their fate, in a statement jointly signed by the Chairman of NANS, Ogun JCC, Comrade Kehinde Damilola Simeon and the National President of NAOSS, Comrade Oluwagbemileke Ogunrombi and made available to DAILY INDEPENDENT on Sunday. According to them, the people of Ogun state deserve better representatives who will contribute to the socio-economic development of the state, but the Senators representing the three Senatorial Districts of the state are performing below expectation. “Ogun state has had the worst set of lawmakers at the National Assembly who have been working against the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. “Ogun people deserve better representatives. We don’t want bench warmers, we don’t want lawmakers that won’t facilitate developmental projects for the state. POLL “It is unfortunate that besides being the worst set of Federal lawmakers at the National Assembly. All the three Senators representing the state have failed to live up to the expectations of the people. “They have failed in terms of sponsoring meaningful bills, they have failed in attracting developmental projects to the state and most importantly, they have failed to contribute meaningfully to the debate on the floor of the Senate. “What we have are nothing but bench warmers. The people of the state have not felt their impact since they have been elected as Senators “Worse still, these set of people are now the ones gallivanting around the state in a show of power. “We urge the people of the state to reject those that have failed to represent them well at both the National and the State Assembly. “We don’t want lawmakers who will not work together with the governor to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people of the state”, the student group insisted.