Brentford playmaker and reported Tottenham target Christian Eriksen has revealed that plenty of offers have already been made for his signature ahead of the upcoming summer transfer window. The 30-year-old has enjoyed an impressive spell with Brentford since joining the Bees on a six-month deal in January and is thought to have no shortage of interest in his services in advance of next season. The likes of Manchester United and Newcastle United have been credited with a desire to land Eriksen in recent weeks, while Tottenham are said to be weighing up the possibility of bringing him back to north London on a free transfer at the end of the campaign. The player himself has since confirmed that a number of clubs have already been in contact with his representatives and hinted that a return to the Champions League could emerge as a priority when choosing his next destination. “I have different offers and options, which we are considering, and then we make a decision,” Eriksen told Viaplay, as reported by Football365. “I would love to play Champions League football again, I know how much fun it is, but it isn’t essential for me.” -Advertisement- Eriksen’s comments would suggest that a move back to Tottenham could be a real possibility if Antonio Conte’s side manage to pip Arsenal to a top-four finish in the Premier League on the final day of the season. Spurs will have a keen eye on their north London rivals against Newcastle United this evening in the knowledge that a win for the Gunners would leave them needing to better Arsenal’s result when the campaign draws to a close on Sunday. Tottenham will face Norwich City on the final day and will be desperate to secure a much-needed victory at Carrow Road while hoping that Arsenal slip up in order to book their place in Europe’s premier club competition for the first time since 2019. It remains to be seen whether this will be enough to tempt Eriksen back, though, with the Dane and his camp still undecided over where his future lies at present. Brentford are said to remain optimistic over their hopes of keeping Eriksen on their books by tying him down to a new and improved contract, given their faith in offering him a return to English football after his cardiac arrest at Euro 2020 last summer. Bees manager Thomas Frank recently insisted that he is not too worried about what the future may hold for Eriksen in spite of the threat of losing him to a bigger club over the coming months. “I know Christian quite well and one thing he’s good at is just enjoying the moment, and I think he’s enjoying it even more,” Frank told reporters in April. “So we are not thinking too much of what is going to happen in two or three months’ time. “I’m just very pleased he’s playing for us. It’s no secret that I want him to continue next season, I know Christian is enjoying his football and really enjoying being back. I know I will have to answer these questions until the end of the season, so let’s see what will happen.”