IBADAN – The Omojoda Community in Iseyin, Iseyin local government will on Friday, present a former member and Majority Leader of Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Waheed Olaniyan with an award of honor in recognition of his roles while in office towards making the construction of Ogbomoso-Iseyin road a reality. The idea of road project was mooted during the reign of the late former governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao Akala but was later abandoned by the administration of late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The community in a statement made available to newsmen on Thursday and signed by the Baale Omojoda, Alhaji Afeez Ajikanle, realized that apart from late Alao Akala whose government came up with the plan to construct the 76kilometer road, the incumbent Governor Seyi Makinde that has flagged off the construction of the road on Wednesday, Olaniyan, who was a key player at the State House of Assembly then should be given a worthy recognition as a mover of the idea,who first brought the attention of the State government to the new road by moving for its construction highlighting various economic, educational, social and health benefits derivable from the new road. -Advertisement- Alhaji Afeez Ajikanle said the event in which the award will be presented will also witness award of honorary Chieftaincy titles on sons and daughters of Omojoda community and residents that have also contributed to its growth. “We are organizing the programme to appreciate our incumbent governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde for deeming the road worthy of economic importance, which led to its construction.” “Hon Waheed Olaniyan has contributed to this project from the period of mooting the idea of the project as a notable member of the Oyo State House of Assembly then, but we are happy he is alive when it has come to fruition with yesterday’s flag-off of the project by the governor.” Hon Olaniyan was a member of Oyo State House of Assembly from 2007 to 2011, representing Iseyin-Itesiwaju State Constituency and was the Chairman, House Committee on Environmental Services/Ecology and later Majority Leader of the House. He is the Chairman, Ekunle Consultative Forum (ECF) and Baameso of Iseyinland.