Six out of the seven All Progressives Grand Alliance House of Assembly aspirants for the Idemili-North state constituency have outrightly rejected what they described as a charade that took place in Idemili-North in the guise of a primary election. The six aspirants who spoke with journalists at the APGA secretariat complex Awka unanimously condemned the election and suggested that the whole process should be cancelled. Mrs. Nwanne Francisca Nkechi alleged that the sitting House of Assembly member, Hon. Ifeanyi Arthur Chiekwu doctored the original result sheets and gave fake result sheets to the 12 wards of Idemili-North local government ward congress, maintained that the anomaly was reported to APGA national chairman but their reports fell on deaf ears. -Advertisement- Nwanne further alleged that the sitting House member bundled the Returning Officer and electoral materials to his house in Umuoji Idemili-North amidst heavy security cover where the entire process was allegedly manipulated. She said the primary election was conducted in the lawmaker’s house, alleging further that the same situation transpired in 2019 when she won the primary election but was manipulated by the lawmaker. The embittered aspirant however called on the national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance Chief Victor Ike Oye to ensure that the original ad-hoc delegate names were used for Idemili-North primary election. Also Engr. Mike Chukwuma said that the delegate list was doctored and according to him, there was a proper delegate election on 10th May, 2022 which produced an authentic list of delegates but allegedly replaced it with a counterfeit document. Chukwuma further disclosed that there was no election whatsoever in Idemili-North as he also alleged that one Mr. Ikechukwu the Returning Officer was whisked into a car which headed to the lawmaker’s house in Umuoji amidst heavy gun battle. POLL He said they have reported to the appropriate authorities in the All Progressives Grand Alliance coupled with a petition to APGA national chairman. John Ugochukwu Ezeude who hails from the Eziowele community in Idemili-North corroborated what other aggrieved aspirants said, saying that it was a tragic experience as the Returning Officer was whisked to the lawmaker’s house amidst heavy police cover with sporadic shootings and they ran for their lives to avoid stray bullets. Reacting to the allegations, the winner of the primary election in the Idemili-North local government area and current member representing the Idemili-North state constituency in the 7th legislature of Anambra state Hon. Ifeanyi Arthur Chiekwu told journalists that he won the election gloriously and that the conduct of the poll was very peaceful, transparent and devoid of violence. Chiekwu said, ” The election was very peaceful, free and fair. My fellow aspirants all stepped down for me because they knew they would lose. They don’t have delegates. When you don’t have delegates you lose and when you lose you reapply for another time to contest. People should not be angry because it is not a do or die affair. If you fail, you come back another four years and try again. So the election was free, fair and peaceful. APGA party secretariat is not where the election was conducted. The election was designated at Ogidi; so people making noise in Awka did not come to Ogidi. Ogidi hall was the venue for the election and no Returning Officer was kidnapped we have a video of all officers including DSS, and INEC while other aspirants ran away because they knew they have lost the election. “