The Lagos State government on Thursday said that the seizure of commercial motorcycles, also known as okada, by the Lagos State Task Force will continue, despite the June 1 deadline issued by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for them to leave six local government areas. The government on Wednesday announced a total ban on okada on all highways across Eti-Osa, Ikeja, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland, Apapa, Surulere, and nine local council development areas (LCDAs) of the state. In a statement by Gbenga Omotoso, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, it said the June 1 deadline does not invalidate the provisions of the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law of 2018, which states that “no person shall ride, drive or propel a motorcycle or tricycle on a major highway within the state, and any person in contravention of this provision commits an offence” and will be made to face the law. -Advertisement- The commissioner said the Lagos State Task Force, led by CSP Shola Jejeloye, has continued to enforce the law. “It seized 238 motorcycles in Lekki on Tuesday and Wednesday. In Iba on Lagos-Badagry Expressway, where it was violently resisted today (Thursday), the Task Force seized 195 motorcycles. The riders were operating on highways and bridges in flagrant disobedience of the law because, according to them, they are free to ply unauthorised routes till June 1. This is wrong. The February 1, 2020 directive has not been reversed. The enforcement was weakened by COVID-19, which affected all areas of life. Now, the action is being reinforced”, Omotoso said. The government praised Lagosians who have come out to support the ban on commercial motorcycles in the six local government areas, which Governor Sanwo-Olu has described as the “first phase” of the action triggered by safety and security concerns. Okada Riders, Police Clash In Lagos POLL Meanwhile, riders of commercial motorcycles and the police operatives were involved in a violent clash on Thursday in Lagos. The okada riders and the policemen engaged each other at the Iyana-Iba area of the state, with many sustaining various degrees of injuries. The okada riders took to the street to protest the ban placed on the operation of motorcycles in six local government areas by the Lagos State government. It was gathered that policemen from the Onireke Police Station, Ojo, impounded some motorcycles early Wednesday and took them to their station. The motorcyclists reportedly mobilised themselves and stoned the police station in an attempt to release the impounded motorcycles and attacked the police station. Policemen in the area shot sporadically into the air to disperse the motorcyclists who also attacked the policemen with stones and other weapons. The riders then blocked roads leading to Ojo Cantonment and other areas to express their displeasure about the okada ban.