West Ham United are reportedly interested in securing the services of 26-year-old Strasbourg centre-forward Habib Diallo this summer.As per French outlet RMC Sport, as relayed by Sport Witness, Strasbourg centre-forward Habib Diallo is attracting interest from the Premier League, with West Ham United and Brighton & Hove Albion keeping tabs on the 26-year-old. There are other potential suitors as well, with Borussia Monchengladbach also being linked with the Senegalese international. West Ham wish to continue challenging for the European spots in the coming seasons but will need reinforcements this summer to keep pace with rival clubs. Signing a centre-forward has been high on the priority list of West Ham since Sebastian Haller’s departure to Ajax in the 2021 January transfer window, with several players, including Ben Brereton Diaz, linked with them. The London-based outfit have now identified Diallo as a signing who could solve their striking woes. Both West Ham and Brighton are showing serious interest in the 26-year-old centre-forward, who has impressed with his strong aerial presence and ‘ability to keep the ball’. With the two clubs looking for a similar profile of strikers, they could get involved in a transfer battle this summer. -Advertisement- The 26-year-old has been in fine form for the Ligue 1 side this season, scoring 12 goals across competitions, and assisting two more. In fact, Diallo has been among the goals since joining Strasbourg from Metz in the 2020 summer transfer window. Diallo’s first full season with the Ligue 1 outfit saw him score nine goals across all competitions, and he has added another 12 to go with it. It comes as no surprise that Diallo is attracting interest from England and Germany on the back of two solid seasons in France. Diallo is not the only centre-forward West Ham have been linked with. Chelsea centre-forward Armando Broja, who is currently on loan at Southampton, is also being targeted by the Hammers. Broja is of a similar profile as Diallo – a towering centre-forward with a strong aerial presence and a perfect target man. Which of the two strikers West Ham manage to sign, or if they move in for a completely different player, remains to be seen. Nonetheless, a big summer transfer window is on the horizon for the Hammers.