Chief Tunde Adetunji, the African Cultural Ambassador, President/CEO of Africa World Museum Center and Africa Heritage Foundation, has established himself as a leader, believing strongly in the renaissance, re-awakening and reorientation of the black man’s dignity, civilisation, emancipation and pride. In this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, he speaks extensively on the devastating impact of climate change and environment pollution on mankind and efforts been made to mitigate the challenges which are unarguably captured as one of UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Excerpts: One of the global challenge today is that of Climate Change and its devastating impact. The challenge, no doubt, has compelled the UN to itemize it in Goal 13 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals as the international body aims to take urgent action to combat it and its impacts. What is your position on this? It is imperative and commendable that the UN is focusing its attention on the interactions of environmental systems, which include the biosphere, the geosphere, the atmosphere, the hydrosphere, and human systems, involving economic, political, cultural, and socio technical value systems. -Advertisement- As leaders of tomorrow, the question for our teenagers now is, what should we do as a people to prevent climate change from hurting our value? How can we humans’ beings respond to actual global changes? What are the consequences of delaying humanity or inaction to combat climate change and global warming? To answer these questions, natural and social scientists, economists, educators, and youth must all have a sense of belonging to work together to combat this global phenomenon. “Teamwork makes dream work.” In as much as we celebrate the Earth Day by each passing year, other global environmental issues we must also focus attention on is air pollution. Air pollution is all around us, both Indoors, outdoors, in cities and in the countryside, even in our classroom, churches and mosques. It affects us all, whether we realise it or not, Air pollution is a cancer that humans have long taken for granted. You’ve been very passionate in the fight against air pollution. What is the driving force, sir? The driving force is unarguably compelling and exigent, particularly as the air we breathe contains the smell of cold and hot air that threatens everyone, from unborn babies to children who walk to school, to women who cook at campfires and teenagers that plays basketball or football. POLL According to empirical research Air pollution is responsible for unprecedented and senseless destruction of human lives and property,on a larger scale than wars and any form of violence, malaria, HIV/AIDS. It is more deadly than smoking, and it can quickly destroy our economy and ecology. As a former airline instructor, I have the opportunity to travel around the globe and witness the rebirth of industrial revolution especially in India and China, America, and Europe. My observations show that the world is outsourcing to China and India only for cheap labor. But, the consequence of the outsourcing/industrial revolution is the resurgence of an uncontrollable air pollution pandemic disease. By seizing the opportunity of last year’s Earth day celebration which I participated in, to launch campaign against Air pollution, climate change and global warming, we took the bull by the horn to set a record that will make this world a better place for humanity. In fact, the impact of air pollution on human health, cause immediate and acute health problems, which include heart and respiratory illness, add stress to heart and lungs. Air Pollution is a phenomenon that has swept the world for decades, so the fight against air pollution and victory will determine how we can make the world a better place to live. Air pollution’s control is vital and should be on a priority list of government’s, UN, and the global community. The clean air act policy has come as checks and balances and promoted the stewardship of resources and future generations through the passing of legislation and bill on global warming, climate change, public health, job creation and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions into the law of the state and federal government. Policymakers and legislators in developed countries must urgently update all air pollution laws and regulations’ laws. The Environmental Protection Organization (EPA) must effectively coordinate and disinfect all sectors of the air pollution department. An effective environmental protection organization should have enough budget to manage, develop, research, and comprehensively control the environment including air pollution. What is your take on how the situation can be mitigated? Although some schools of thought believe that a carbon tax will encourage many industrial companies to switch to clean energy. Others believe that this overbearing campaign event will put a heavier burden on low-income, low-privileged people, so it is regressive. To justify the successful reform of the carbon tax, the government must first determine the external cost of greenhouse gas emissions per ton, it is mandatory and very important for both scientists and economist to reach an agreement and conscious of opinion on which assumptions to use since the ideal impact and consequence of a carbon tax is to show the true cost of burning carbon. Given its challenges, the government should remove subsidies on fossil fuel, which consists of coal, oil, and gas costing over 25 billion a year, subsidise wind, solar, and hydro power, increase energy efficiency standards, build more public transportation to reduce cars on the road and finally implement carbon emissions trading. In good faith, the carbon tax is a necessary solution to stop global warming, the government should eliminate all subsidies to the fossil fuel industry, and the United Nations should impose sanctions on any country that does not comply with carbon tax regulations. I seize this opportunity to congratulate everyone once again as a benchmark for Earth Day celebrations and for a successful endeavor on global warming and environmental pollution. You are no doubt an environmental activist? What have been the greatest changes you have seen since you got involved in environmental activism? There has not been commendable change since I began to advocate for a cleaner environment. Things don’t change quickly. You have to work hard, you have to wait, and you have to be patient. I’m sorry that it didn’t happen soon because I think we would have been better off had it happened sooner. But, you have to live with what you got. I think what is happening now is that it’s telling on people, the value of alternative energy, and the jobs and industry that could be created from it. And as soon as you talk about industries and jobs then that changes the whole picture, because before the argument was always “oil and gas, that produces energy but also jobs and this doesn’t.” But now people are realising that not only does alternative energy do this, but in a much better way that is sustainable for our planet. What is your take on Goal 13 of the Sustainable Development Goal; which is majorly about Climate action as been taken by the UN? Let me start by saying that there is no country that is not experiencing the drastic effects of climate change, this is as greenhouse gas emissions are more than 50 percent higher than in 1990. Global warming is causing long-lasting changes to our climate system, which threatens irreversible consequences if we do not act. The annual average economic losses from climate-related disasters are in the hundreds of billions of dollars. This is not to mention the human impact of geo-physical disasters, which are 91 percent climate-related, and which between 1998 and 2017 killed 1.3 million people, and left 4.4 billion injured. The goal aims to mobilize US$100 billion annually by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries to both adapt to climate change and invest in low-carbon development. Supporting vulnerable regions will directly contribute not only to Goal 13 but also to the other SDGs. These actions must also go hand in hand with efforts to integrate disaster risk measures, sustainable natural resource management, and human security into national development strategies. It is still possible, with strong political will, increased investment, and using existing technology, to limit the increase in global mean temperature to two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, aiming at 1.5°C, but this requires urgent and ambitious collective action.