Tottenham are interested in signing Barcelona defender Clement Lenglet but only on their terms, according to reports. Barca will allow Lenglet to leave the club this summer and Spurs are keen on the Frenchman but only on loan and without an obligation to buy. The 26-year-old has made 26 appearances in all competitions for Barca this season, starting the most recent match away to Getafe on Sunday. But Spanish outlet Sport says the player ‘must leave’ the Nou Camp this summer. Manager Xavi does not view Lenglet as part of his plans moving forward. Tottenham are interested but their first demand is the deal must only be a season-long loan initially. -Advertisement- The north London club are also said to not want an obligation to buy clause inserted in the transfer. Antonio Conte would be open to signing Lenglet but that is where the third Spurs demand comes in. The deal must suit Tottenham financially and Lenglet would have to ‘renounce’ part of his salary. The report claims Spurs would be willing to pay a good chunk of the player’s current wages but not all of it. Lenglet is said to earn over £5million net per season with his current Barca contract. The La Liga giants know his high wages will make it difficult for them to find a buyer. Lenglet only signed a new deal last June to extend his stay at the club until 2026. But Barca have changed manager since then and Xavi wants to move him on. Barca feel the only realistic destination for Lenglet is the Premier League due to the financial demands of the player. Chelsea are said to have held a previous interest in the player but it has not gone beyond that. POLL Tottenham are the most viable option and could fulfil Lenglet’s demand of playing Champions League football next season. Victory over Norwich on Sunday would secure a spot in the Premier League top four for Conte’s side. Conte is keen to strengthen his defence this summer. The club are already set to spend over £42m on Cristian Romero, who has spent this season on loan in north London. Romero has been a key player at the back for Conte since returning from a hamstring injury. He has lined up on the right of a back three, with Eric Dier and Ben Davies the other two players in the Italian’s preferred defensive line-up.