Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment has met with his counterpart, Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, to resolve some grey areas in the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), 2021. Adebayo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr Evelyn Ngige, said the meeting was convened to discuss pertinent issues with regard to the application of legal metrology, that is, Weights and Measures, in the oil and gas sector, following the passage of PIA. He expressed concern that following the passage and assent of the PIA, some private bodies, who are not conversant with the functions of the Weights and Measures Department in the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI), have erroneously concluded that the Department has no further role to play in the oil and gas sector. -Advertisement- He further revealed that some of the Petroleum retail outlets, supported by their Associations, have issued threats to the Inspectors of the Department as well as sought to bar the officials of the Department from entering their premises to carry out their statutory function of verification of equipment. Adebayo insisted that the role of the Weights and Measures Department in the gas and oil sector is to certify and verify the instruments used in dispensing Oil and Liquefied Petroleum Gas(LPG) such as the flow meter pumps, dipping sticks, scales and gas skid dispensers. The minister contended that the Weight and Measures Department in his ministry is also saddled with the responsibility of issuing Initial Verification Certificates, re-verification of certificates and pattern approvals for equipment used in dispensing Oil and LPG at the outlets. He said, “It should be noted that it is only Inspectors of Weights and Measures Department in the country that can perform these duties by virtue of their Testamur Certification, which is a requirement set by the Weights and Measures Act CAP W3 LFN,2004 for officers engaged to perform legal metrology duties. “In our view and opinion, the relevant Section of the PIA on which these private bodies are relying has given only regulatory power in the oil and gas sector to the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority(NMDPRA); but the power to certify and verify the instruments used for dispensing petroleum products still remains sacrosanct within the purview of the Department, and that is why the Weights and Measures Act has not been repealed. POLL “In summary, the overarching objective is to ensure equity, accuracy and fairness in trade, through the application of legal metrology, by carrying outweighing and measuring activities in all organisations and premises that engage in the use of weighing and measuring equipment for trade, which is the extant practise globally.” Also speaking, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said in view of the critical nature of the issue, the meeting would be extended to include other stakeholders. Sylva represented by the Executive Secretary of Petroleum Technology Development Fund(PTDF), Dr Bello Aliyu Gusau, expressed optimism that the grey areas in the implementation of PIA would be extensively discussed and sorted out.