Rev. Dr. Rexkennedy Saltlove is the President, Apostolic Mandate and Minster, Revival Assembly (the New Anointing Church), Ogba, Lagos. The cleric, who is also President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Initiative) in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, speaks in his areas of calling as well as some crucial issues in Christendom. Excerpt: Could you tell us about you and your ministry? I am a man of humble beginnings and God chaser. I gave my life to Jesus Christ at The Deeper Life Bible Church during its Easter Retreat in Benin City, Edo State in 1983. Right from a very young age, I had a hunger to serve the Lord. At 15, I became a house leader, possible one of the youngest in Deeper Life then. I visited Minna, Niger State, where I worshipped with the Household of Faith. I later joined a Pentecostal Church, Word of Faith Ministry, Gwada, Shiroro LGA, where I rose to become the Outreach Director. As the hunger for God grew, I had to drop my secular education pursuit and chose to focus in the service of God and headed for Bible School, the All Nations for Christ Bible Institute of the late Archbishop Benson Idahosa. In the second semester of my first year, a branch of Church of God Mission was opened for me in Osasinwonoba village. However, by God’s mercy, in a year and half, we were over 150 members, which I handed over to Church of God Mission before coming to Lagos after my graduation. On coming to Lagos, I fellowshipped with a couple of churches. Sometime in 1997, God told me: “Go and Raise up for me successful people who shall be relevant in all schemes of life. Teach them the spirit of the letter, preach salvation through love and exalt my people to distinction.” That message became the foundation on which my ministry Rexkennedy Saltlove Apostolic Mandate (RESAME), with 5Rs to fulfil its mandate. These are: Reach out (to all); Reconcile (Sinners to God); Restore (Backslidden Sons and Daughters in Faith; Root (Establish them by discipling/training); Raise them through vision. -Advertisement- You have your own ministry, yet you worship in someone else’s ministry. How would you explain this? Understanding ministry is the first key to fulfilling one’s God-given assignment. Ministry is using God’s given talent, gifts, calling, resources (money, time and opportunity, etc) to advance and promote the interests of the kingdom. Ministry is a mystery. It is a microcosm of the Church that God is building Himself. The process God uses to qualify one for any assignment is what no man can understand. Ministry is not limited to one having his own church or congregation. It is not everyone that is called into Pastoral Ministry where one must gather crowds they oversee. Again, ministry is not limited to the five-fold ministry of Apostle, Prophet, Evangelist, Pastors and Teachers as in Ephesians 4:11. It also covers “… Those who do miracles, those who have the gift of healing, those who can help others, those who have the gift of leadership, those who speak in unknown languages” (1 Corinthians 12:28). What is termed ‘Other’s ministry’ is a local assembly that is needed for an itinerant minister to have a base where he fellowships or worships with the brethren as the scriptures commands in Hebrews 10:25. It is a wrong mindset to believe or think anyone having a ministry must have his own church. Great names like Billy Graham, Reinhardt Bonnke, etc, had their ministries, but worship in local assemblies pastored by others or Churches not started or owned by them. My worshipping under other’s ministry/churches despite having my own ministry is to have a local assembly I fellowship with as in Heb. 10:25; as a form of spiritual covering (Psalms 133). The greatest form of bondage is to be unaccountable. So, fellowshipping in another’s ministry with an apostolic mandate is to have some form of authority that can call one to order in case one is getting it wrong somewhere in doctrine or lifestyle as a Christian and minister as not to run in vain. What impact would you say your ministry has been making in its areas of operation? Ministry is not about Church buildings. It is about using one’s callings in the five-fold ministry, gifts, talents and opportunities God gave you in impacting humanity for Christ and his kingdom. Whenever a believer discovers his calling, talents and gifts and uses it judiciously for the benefit of mankind to add values and impact on lives, he is fulfilling ministry. Thus, a school owner, a journalist, accountant, etc, that stands on conviction of his Christian testimony doing what he is passionate about, is fulfilling ministry. Also, asking me what impact my ministry has been making in its areas of operations is like asking me to score myself. However, I would gladly refer to the PFN, Ikeja Province, which is my primary constituency. I may not get applause from all, but it may give you inkling about me. I am called into the fivefold ministry as a teacher and training, a trained management consultant, a naturally born and gifted leader and a champion for civil society. These gift and callings cum professional training come handy while fulfilling my ministry. I don’t primarily see myself as a front player per se. I see myself as one graced to serve for the greater good of the body of Christ. As one God gifted with leadership grace, my first major assignment was when I was asked to pioneer the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Ojodu, as the pioneer chairman till it was successfully inaugurated. Thereafter, we pushed for the birth of Ikeja Region of PFN in 1998/1999, among other exploits. As a passionate advocate for justice, fairness and equity who hates injustice and oppression, I am the Founding President/Executive Director, Citizens Rights and Empowerment Advocacy Initiative (CREMA Initiative), a human right body. Through CREMA Initiative, we have help people to get justice and results in matters we have been called into we have not lost a case or failed to get results. We have developed a leadership curriculum for students and are partnering with the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) to run a leadership club in schools. In my local church, Revival Assembly, the Pastor entrusted me to midwife the ministers’ fellowship vision God gave to him, The Apostolic Revival Ministers International Network (ARMIN). This was successfully done in 2016. In the process of all these, I have bagged several awards. Could you give an assessment of the roles of the PFN-DPG so far in Lagos? POLL The Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG) of PFN in Lagos State has been doing massively well in orientation and sensitisation with regards to their set objectives. I commend the leadership of Bishop Theophilus Ajose in that regards. They are building structures that will help see that the objectives of which the department was set up is achieved. They are also networking with relevant private organisations, government department and agencies with the right message in reaching out to key stakeholders. Example is partnering with an organisation in inviting INEC to come educate on PVC related issues. However, the organisation needs serious fund injection and more churches buying into the idea. This is where I will appeal to the fathers and big churches to pull resources together to see that Lagos should be used as a template or model of what DPG is capable of doing, which should be replicated nationwide. The establishment of DPG in all branches of RCCG in the nation and Lagos in particular for instance is worth emulating by all the bigger churches. However, the smaller churches in PFN should unite and join the train by seeing the PFN churches as one and their churches as branch of one big family. This will help in fast tracking the reach out to PFN members and others, too. How do you see the recent killing of a Christian girl, Deborah Samuel, in Sokoto by her fellow students over alleged blasphemy? The killing of Deborah by a bunch of fanatical Muslim in the name of blasphemy has multiple implications. It is a very sad occurrence and once more showed the bestial nature of man’s inhumanity to man under the guise of religion. A peaceful religion should not be involved in bloodletting, but will give what you have no matter the provocation. The issue of ‘blasphemy’ is subjective and is not in the Quran, but the Hadith, which is a product of interpretation imputed by the Imams or scholars into Islam. The killing is an indication that Christians are endangered species and their lives continually under threats in the North part of Nigeria. Deborah Samuel’s death is a byproduct of a government system that does not punish Islamic and Muslim fanatical murderers and criminals but rewards them. I say this in the light of previous incidents of these sorts like the death of Gideon Akaluka. There are several other cases. Deborah’s murder by fellow students is subtly creating the impression that Nigeria is becoming an Islamic state. If this is not addressed, sooner, we will have future generation of Christian who will not trust the system to guaranty their protection from in revenge. The vicious circle may continue until a full religious war breaks out. What is your take on the way the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), NIREC and major Islamic groups and leaders have been handling the killing of Deborah? The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) only wrote a letter to it members to organise a protest in their secretariat on Sunday May 22, 2022, “to avoid more death”. This was obviously done through pressure. Yet, a Muslim organization, Muslims Association of Nigeria (MAN) with no visible address also wrote to protest that same day. Personally, I see that as cowardice as, it should have been a good time for the church to rise up, protest to the government and restate in strong terms that Nigeria is a secular or multi-religious nation and murderers irrespective of any Faith should be speedily brought to justice to curtail future incident or vicious circle of revenge killings that may snowball into something more terrifying. On the part of Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC), I am not aware of it coming out to say anything in condemnation of the gruesome murder. This does not surprise me as the Co-chair is the Sultan of Sokoto in whose state Deborah was killed. However, as an individual the Sultan spoke and condemned the act. NIREC is not doing God’s bid. As a body, its conspiratorial silence shows complicit acceptance as a fait accompli or a deja vu of something bound to happen over which nothing can or should be done. Would you say the Federal and Northern state governments have been handling the issue of Islamic extremism in the North well to ensure peace, unity and security of lives and properties? The answer is an outright “No”. The governors of the Northern states may have spoken as individuals, but the institutional frameworks to curtail religious extremism are not in place. It is just the rhetorical verbal placebos that are being said or spoken to create an impression of something been done, whereas nothing in actuality is been done.