The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO), has condemned the alleged endorsement of Professor Uche Ikonne as the party’s consensus governorship candidate in Abia State by the Abia North Senatorial District and Bende Local Government Chapters. Chief Emeka Kalu, PDPCO National Coordinator, in a statement made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday, maintained that the purported endorsement which he said had gone viral on social media was a mark of deception, impunity and politically motivated mischief. According to him, the alleged endorsement was not only a pure fallacy and mark of deception but drabness and collusion meant to destabilise Abia  North PDP zonal stakeholders. -Advertisement- He stressed that the zone had been on a page for proper guidance and peaceful harmonisation of PDP’s gubernatorial primaries, even as he lamented existing lopsidedness on the part of the Imo State chapter of the party over the recently conducted ward congress that elected the three-man Ad hoc delegates in line with the PDP’s constitution. Kalu stated: “It was due to the failure of trust that prompted the series of litigations at Enugu State High Court under His Lordship, Justice Harold Eya, regarding the resulting inconsistency of the conducted April 30 ward congress. “Litigation is good when taken in the right direction in excellence and actions of the law. In the interest of fairness and natural justice, it remains a dragnet of deception and insincerity in the news spreading the popular Bende endorsement of Uche Ikonne as Abians’  choice of governorship candidate come 2023. “This type of publication remains mischief and an open violation of traditional courtesy against God and humanity. Bende-based PDP stakeholders did not pencil down Uche Ikonne as a consensus candidate and anybody acting on this ignoble impunity goofs and buries his common sense usage in calumny. POLL “PDP Coalition, in her discretion, does not in any form personally hates Uche Ikonne as a person who aspires to govern  Abia  State, but the same Coalition Office of PDP can never yield to imposition  of any candidate against the goodwill and consultation  of Abia  people,” Kalu stated.