In partnership with EbonyLife Studios, Netflix launched its first Nigerian Original series, ‘Blood Sisters’, on May 5th 2022, with a star-studded cast including Kate Henshaw, Ramsey Noah, Joke Silver, Ini Dima-Okojie, Nansy Isime, Uche Jombo, Zack Orji, Keppy Ekpeyong Bassey, among others. Since its premiere, the series which was produced by Mo Abudu, directed by Biyi Bandele and Kenneth Gyang has continued to garner positive reviews across board. Making her major acting debut, Genoveva Umeh plays the role of Timeyin in the series. Speaking on the role she played, Umeh, an alumnus of the EbonyLife Creative Academy revealed to INDEPENDENT how she was able to interpret it perfectly, even as a newbie. -Advertisement- “I don’t really know, but I love acting, so I think I have always been prepping. In terms of the Timeyin role I played is a dream role, because to play a character that has so much depth it takes research, and the fact that I had really good actors to spur me. It’s hard to play the role of an addict, because you might not get it right. Some people will think you didn’t do it the right way, but you have to do it off your impulses, so that’s what I did. I added research and I made sure that I understood the story, I understood what she wanted for each scene and how she planned on getting it,” she said. On having to play the role of a drug addict who was a monumental disappointment, disgrace and shame to her family, she said; “When I got the script I was really excited, because as an actor I like to challenge myself. So when I got the chance to play this role I was all in because it’s a real thing that people deal with. It’s a condition that is lifelong and I wanted to make her so real and so honest that when people see her, they are not just seeing her addiction; they are seeing someone that needs help, that needs love, that needs to be understood; maybe not accepted, but understood. So with that in mind, it was so easy to love her and so easy to make her what she was in the movie.”