Nigeria’s President, Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) on Thursday commissioned the N23.5 billion upgraded Bauchi Township Water Supply Scheme Project with a call on the Bauchi State Government to ensure the culture of infrastructure maintenance for long-term benefit of the people of the state. Recall that Governor Bala Mohammed had in 2019 flagged off the rehabilitation and expansion of water supply facilities in Bauchi metropolis. The multi-billion naira project was designed to ensure affordable and sustainable access to water services to all consumers within areas of coverage, in addition to activating water facilities to ensure an effective water supply across the state. Speaking during the commissioning ceremony at the Gubi dam water board corporation in Bauchi, president Buhari, stated that the national water sector reform project under which the up-grading of the Bauchi township water supply scheme has been executed is part of the deliberate policy of his administration to promote better living for the populace by increasing access to improved water supply in some selected states, including Bauchi. -Advertisement- The President who was represented by the Secretary to the Federal government, Boss Gidanyelda Mustapha, said that the project was a collaborative effort between the Bauchi State government, the world bank and the federal government, adding that the project has become a success story. He said that the federal government as it is required of a multi-lateral donor-funded project provided the sovereign guarantee as well as the critical supervision and oversight through the office of the national urban water sector reform project domicile in the federal ministry of water resources. “I am happy to note that from the reports I have received, the Bauchi government executed the project credibly.I am not surprised at this accomplishment because the State governor personally pursued the project delivery with vigour and determination through the allocation of resources, interventions to eliminate bottlenecks and challenges, including the COVID-19, which necessitated the project extension as well as paying attention to details” “I note with satisfaction that the up-graded Bauchi township water supply scheme has the capacity to supply water demand of over 1 million people and I congratulate the good people of Bauchi state, my people, for being the beneficiaries of this legacy infrastructure” he said Also Speaking, the State Governor, Bala Mohammed, said that Bauchi metropolitan has for a long time, been bedeviled by scarcity of potable water with a population growing in leaps and bounds, largely because of the relative peace it enjoys. POLL The governor said that his government flagged off the various construction activities under the Project, which had been dormant due to lack of political will, adding that his government had to contend with some challenges in the execution of the Project due to late commencement of the procurement process and eventual impact of COVID-19 which all negatively impacted with the World Bank timelines on the project. “I personally spearheaded the request for the extension of the Project period to compensate for the time lost as most manufacturing companies overseas were shut down and shipment came to a standstill. “The World Bank gave an extension of six months at the first instance and later gave additional three (3) months. This made it possible to complete the project which is being commissioned today. The Project is meant to resolve the water supply challenge of Bauchi metropolis for the next 20 years and beyond. At its full capacity utilization, it will provide the water demand of over one million inhabitants of Bauchi metropolis” Governor Mohammed said.