Bishop Dr. Theophilus Taiwo Ajose is Special Adviser (General Duties) to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman in Lagos and State Secretary, CPFN/PFN Block, Lagos State. Bishop Ajose also doubles as State Director, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), Lagos, and Zonal Deputy Director (South West) DPG of PFN as well as President, Organisation of Christians for Democracy (OCD). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on some developments since the formation of the directorate by the PFN, among other crucial issues. Excerpt: How far has the PFN, through the Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG), has gone on the issue of establishing the directorate at its various units and Church branches? As I speak and at the DPG, Lagos, we have DPG structures at all the three Senatorial Districts, 20 Local Governments and 37 LCDAs of Lagos State and all the 377 political wards in Lagos State. Also, we have every church in every ward being represented at the ward level by the Church Parish or branch representative, known as the Church Officer of Politics. -Advertisement- The PFN-DPG recently met with several Christian aspirants in Lagos. How would you describe the meeting and what was the outcome? The meeting was organised by the Pentecostal aspirants so that as our members, we can harmonise their aspirations and consolidate on the possible outcome that will make them emerge as candidates of their various political parties. The outcome was first, the understanding of the aspirants of the prophetic political destiny of the church as enshrined in the Holy Bible. Secondly, they all agreed to work together to harmonise their aspirations and avoid unnecessary duplications of political offices, thereby narrowing the chances of the church at the primary elections. Is the DPG considering meeting with the incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu? If so, what efforts are being made to ensure that the meeting holds and when will such a meeting be? Although the church played a major role in his emergence as governor of Lagos State, the church is also solidly behind him and other Christian aspirants and candidates. We are praying for them. However, since the PFN is a member of CAN, we shall also follow direct instructions from the state CAN on the support for a political candidate or party, except if the State DPG/PFN directs otherwise. To what extent has Governor Sanwo-Olu lived up to the expectations of Christians who insisted on having a Christian governor during the last election? POLL Honestly, as a sitting Christian governor and with all the limitations and challenges of his office, we at the Lagos PFN can confidently tell you that Sanwo-Olu in his first term has performed creditably well as governor. MURIC, an Islamic group, tackled the PFN for setting up the DPG, while some Muslim politicians in Lagos State advised Muslims to set up their own DPG. How would you react to these developments? One of the best things to happen in the political space of Nigeria is the formation of the Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG) by the PFN. The formation of the DPG is a divine plan of God and has awakened the church to its primary divine responsibility of governance. The Bible tells us that governance shall rest upon the children of Christ and the body of any personality starts from the children. The body of Christ is the Church. So, quoting Jerry Falwell, “The idea that religion and politics do not meet was inserted by the devil to keep Christians from the running of their own country.” MURIC and those advocating for others to set up their own DPG do not understand that vision is different from ambition, hence the blueprint of the DPG is only for and with DPG and the fake, no matter the branding, cannot be the original. DPG is an inspiration from the Almighty God. Anybody who wants to set up something like the DPG should go to God and download the one meant for him. But, if they are seeking to partner with the DPG for the establishment of a better Nigeria, we are ready to make known to them the wisdom of God that can never be duplicated. In one word, DPG is a mystery of God unfolded to humanity. How do you see the recent endorsement of Gov. Sanwo-Olu for second term by the Methodist Bishops? For us at PFN Lagos, we are well aware that at the last annual IDDS (Interdenominational Divine Service) of CAN Lagos State, the CAN State Chairman openly declared the decision of the State CN to endorse Sanwo-Olu as its candidate. However, the Methodist Church support you mentioned, although a member of the CCN (Christian Council of Nigeria) where the Prelate of the Methodist Church, came at the national level of the Methodist Church. It is also in alignment with the Lagos State CAN declaration. Kaduna CAN cried out recently over the state of insecurity in the state. What is your reaction to this considering the state of insecurity not only in Kaduna, but in the North and parts of the country? I align myself with the call by the Kaduna CAN. The state of insecurity in Nigeria has become worrisome and should be of concern to all Nigerians. CAN in Kaduna State is not alone in voicing out this concern. Different religions, both Christians and Muslims as well as Traditionalists have been crying out in this regard. So, as many people can voice out their concern and proffer solutions to this menace, the better and easier for the government to rise up to the challenge. We at the PFN are in alliance with the Kaduna CAN for the call. We support it. We have nothing against it. To what extent has prosperity gospel positively or negatively impacted on the Nigerian Church? God is a dispensational God. Different dispensations have different levels or dimensions of the gospel revealed for the growth of the church and bring mankind to the knowledge of the authority of God. There have been dispensations of Reformation, Holiness, Righteousness, Salvation and Prosperity, which are all different aspects of the gospel. Now, we are at the tail end of the Prosperity Dispensation. At the end of this dispensation, the Lord shall soon reveal the message of another dispensation as we move towards the End-Time. However, in each of these dispensations, honestly, there has been some extremism, which is normally expected in anything human beings are involved in or handling. This is why different church organisations like all the church groups of CAN should set up and maintain an Ethics and Discipline Committee or Directorate to check all these excesses. Prosperity itself is not a problem since it is in the Holy Scriptures, since the Lord wants His people to prosper. It is the methodology of fake ministers of the gospel that are at the forefront of extremism. How should cases of Spousal Abuse among Christians and Ministers of God be handled? His committee or Directorate of Ethics and Disciple I am advocating in all the church groups can also check and deal with the issue of spousal abuse and other forms of extremism in Christendom. The Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the APC, Lagos, has already endorsed Governor Sanwo-Olu for a second term. Don’t you think the endorsement was premature as other people in the party may be interested in the position? Endorsements are normal party operations to avoid unnecessary rancor and jostling for positions. This has been the case in all the states and Lagos is not an exception, from Fashola to Sanwo-Olu. If the goodwill is there, it will not cause a rancor. Several aspirants who were formerly in the Tinubu’s camp have now picked up the party’s presidential nomination forms to contest against him in the primary. How do you think this will play out in the South West region? It is unfortunate that the South West politicians are allowing their personal interests and aspirations to make them a pawn on the political chess board of those who want to destabilise the most politically informed, virile, formidable and united South West zone of the country. There is the need for the South West leaders who are still alive and commands the respect and goodwill of South West people to summon a meeting of these South West political gladiators. Such a meeting which has been held in the past will create an atmosphere of give and take and put the regional interest above the personal interests because this may be the last chance South West has to sustain its political advantage in the country before the curtain falls.