IBADAN – The Oyo State Government has called on parents to ensure they prepare their children and wards for resumption, as the 2021/2022 session third term academic activities have started. This was jointly stated today by the Honourable Commissioner for Education Science and Technology and the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Barrister Rahman Abiodun Abdu-Raheem and Dr. Nureni Aderemi Adeniran, in Ibadan. While monitoring schools’ resumption, the Commissioner for Education, Dr. Abdu-Raheem expressed optimism that the low turnout of students in most schools visited, would be improved upon by the following week. -Advertisement- The Commissioner asserted that the low turnout observed is an indicator that better approaches should be adopted in the teachers’/students relationship. Abdu-Raheem said this will bring the minds of the young ones closer to the school system. He also charged parents to work with the State Government by encouraging positive learning in their children and wards. It was observed that teachers in all monitored schools were massively on ground but with low turnout of students. The Honourable Commissioner heaped a reminder of the government zero tolerance for examination malpractices on the Principals and teachers, emphasizing more on the various sanctions awaiting defiant ones. Also speaking in Ibadan, the Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Aderemi Adeniran appealed to teachers in public primary schools to commence academic activities immediately. POLL Dr. Adeniran admonished them to put in their best at complimenting the efforts of the present administration, at attaining qualitative education in Oyo State. Dr. Adeniran, who noted that a full monitoring team will be deployed to public primary schools on Monday, charged teachers to love their pupils, adding that this will attract students’ interest in the teaching and learning processes. Notable schools monitored by the Honourable Commissioner, and his team included : Olubadan High School, Ibadan, Adekile Goodwill Grammar School, Aperin, Aperin Boys High School, CAC Grammar School, Aperin Oniyere, and Government Secondary School, Aperin.