The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), manager of Nigeria’s sovereign wealth fund, has recorded 9th year of continuous earnings in spite of volatility and cyclical risks across markets its audited results for the 2021 financial year. The strong financial performance underscores the resilience of the NSIA’s investment strategy and the quality of its earnings given the challenging macro environment. Highlights of NSIA’s activities and performance during the period indicated that total Comprehensive Income of N147.0 billion in 2021 a decline of 8.2% relative to 2020 at N160.1 billion; inclusive of FX gains of (N45.8 billion in 2021 and N51.2 billion in 2020). -Advertisement- While the total operating income – Core income (exclusive of FX gains) of N100.8 billion in 2021, down 8.0% compared to 109.6 billion in 2020, the Net Assets grew 19.0% to N919.73 billion in 2021 (2020: N772.75 billion), a pointer to positive returns across the three funds. Mr. Uche Orji, the MD & CEO, in his comments said: “2021 marked the end of another solid fiscal year at NSIA. In the period, the Authority delivered a strong performance. While the results are in line with the Authority’s expectations, strong performance of our developed market investments were offset by challenges in our emerging market asset allocation, particularly in China equities, which saw significant underperformance by technology company stocks. ” “Looking ahead to 2022 and beyond, we believe inflationary pressures will persist for much of this year, affecting the performance of all asset classes. “We remain committed to strengthening the Authority’s performance by strengthening our risk management teams. In addition to expanding our direct investment footprint in innovation and technology in Nigeria, we have also designated ESG as an investment focus area. We will remain unrelenting in our quest to deliver the Authority’s clear 3-fold mandate. I am confident that the actions we are taking will create value for all our stakeholders in the medium to long term. “On the fund performance, the Nigeria Infrastructure Fund (NIF), reached major milestones across domestic infrastructure projects specifically in motorways, agriculture, healthcare, technology, and gas industrialization among others. POLL “On Agriculture, the Presidential Fertiliser Infrastructure ,PFI, is one of the Authority’s most successful intervention programmes”, he said. He noted that the operating entity of the programme NAIC-NPK (now PFI-NPK) has been divested to the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) and is being managed by the Authority as a third-party asset. “The restructured entity also turned a profit for the first time which is remarkable for what has been perenially a subsidised programme. “The NSIA expects to commission Panda Agric in mid-to-late 2022. Panda Agric is an investee company under the NSIA-UFF US$200m Agriculture Fund set up in 2016. “Panda farm is engaged in the two-phase development of an animal feed processing business with backward integration through the farming of maize and soybean on about 3,500Ha of land in Nasarawa State (“Project Panda”) where approximately 96 percent (720ha) of the targeted 750ha of center pivot irrigation coverage has been achieved.