LAGOS – Residents of Ebute-Meta (West), Lagos Mainland Local Government of Lagos State have lamented three months power outage in the area. The residents said Eko Elec­tricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) totally disconnected electricity supply to their com­munity. They also lamented al­leged extortion by officials of EKEDC despite the staggering electricity supply. -Advertisement- Chairman, Apapa Road and Ebute Meta Electricity Com­mittee, Mr. Dapo Williams, spoke on the consequences of the power outage on residents and business owners. He complained about the EKEDC demand for the pay­ment for service not rendered. “We have seen the worst of EKEDC with the isolation of residents and business owners from electricity supply. The im­plication of the 92 days power outage on businesses and pre­paid customers are so enor­mous that all prepaid meters and other electrical equipment of customers have been de-en­ergised. “This is because the EKEDC has isolated the cus­tomers from EB One from the Feeder. They have de-en­ergised businesses, prepaid metres and other home appli­ances without any justifiable reason. That’s why we are here to show the irresponsibility of the distribution company. “The worrisome part of it all is that in spite of the illegal disconnection, at the end of the month, EKEDC serves the people with huge electricity bills demanding for the pay­ment of services they didn’t render. POLL “They insisted that we should pay them for throw­ing us in total darkness and crippling our businesses. They demanded to be paid for de-energising their prepaid metres and crippling their businesses. “They are only concern about monthly electricity bills collection but careless about the plight and businesses of their consumers,” Williams stated. To resolve the lingering electricity issue,the tradi­tional ruler of Otumara and Apapa Road community, High Chief Kehinde Kalejaiye, led representatives from the af­fected communities to a rec­onciliatory meeting held at the Ijora District Office of the distribution to formally com­plaint about the damaging effects of the power outage in his community. Kalejaiye, in his demands requested for the supply of prepaid metres and an end to ‘killer’ estimated billing sys­tem. He said, “We are here to express our grievances be­cause it is no longer news that EKEDC has isolated the whole of Ebute Meta West from the feeder. “This has become a general issue affecting businesses and homes in the whole of Lagos Mainland Local Government. We were isolated without con­sidering pre-paid customers who have invested so much in purchasing prepaid cards and the implication of such isolation on residents and businesses. “We need prepaid metres but in a situation whereby they cannot provide the me­tres in the immediate, they should provide an alternative. “We are tired of estimated billing systems whereby we pay through our nose despite our disconnection from the feeder. If there is going to be any load shedding at least it should reflect in the bills they are serving us for the month.” Chairman, Ijero Sonola Community Development As­sociation, Mr. Babalola Thom­as, added that they took their protest to the MD of EKEDC to know what the issue is with the corporation. “We got assur­ances from the management that we would be supplied prepaid metres but till now nothing has happened. “We have been engaging with the management for this issue to be resolved. All we kept getting were assurances and promises but nothing has been done,” he lamented. However, reacting to the allegations, EKEDC District Manager, Mrs. Vera Ukoh, said the isolation was necessitated by residents’ refusal to comply with payment of electricity consumed.