***It Will Bring About Sanity – Official ABUJA – Some traders were noticeably agitated as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Ministerial Taskforce on City Sanitation bulldozed a mini market on land belonging to the National Council of Women Societies (NCWS) Area 11 near the FCT Administration Secretariat. -Advertisement- Traders, largely food sellers, told newsmen on Monday during the demolition exercise, hinted that the taskforce team had given them three months to quit the area, but that they were still waiting for the administration to provide them another location. Rafat Mohammed, a merchant, expressed concern about finding a place to launch her business. “This is worrying, where will I go and start? Government suppose to provide an alternative place for us before the demolition” she said. POLL One of the traders and leader, Malam Ibrahim Lawal who was expressing his anger over the incident, admitted that the FCT Administration gave them a notice of three months but it was not yet time. Lawal said: “I feel very bad because we were given three months but is not up to the three months, We were following up the issue till late last week, the people that came told us that they were sent by the minister, others said the minister is not aware of the demolition, how comes? The minister promised us land, we have not seen it” he said. Fielding questions from journalists after the exercise, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the minister of FCT, Comrade Ikharo Attah explained that the area which is near the National Council of Women Societies (NCWS) has constituted a nuisance in the area. He said pulling down of the illegal structures will bring about sanity in the area that has been converted to mini market which is against the master plan. “This place is constituting nuisances in Area 11, it started as a small restaurant gradually it metamorphose into a market, now it has become a serious challenge. “The activities on this single plot of land have become a serious issue, the minister of FCT malam Mohammad Bello has directed that we should clear the place, such illegality will not stand. We gave them warning before coming” On what the place will be used for, after the cleaning, Attah said the land belongs to National Council for Women Societies (NCWS), the council will decide on what to be done in the plot. One of the customers who was at the scene, Elder Charles Olili said the place was the only nearby restaurant that its food is affordable, but he explained that government has powers to decide what is good for the people, “It is a legal plot of land but has been turned into an illegal market” he said.