 ABUJA – Hafsat Abiola Costello, Director General, Governor Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation has restated the Confidence of the campaign to give Nigerians the best candidate for president when GYB picks the APC ticket on May 29. She made the declaration on Thursday after submitting his completed nomination form at the International Conference Centre, in Abuja,. stressing that Governor Bello would be the next President of Nigeria. -Advertisement- She noted that Gov Bello started his campaign early and had covered the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, adding that the support from Nigerians, across party lines, was overwhelming. She said, “I have come on behalf of our candidate to submit the expression of interest form and I want to express my congratulations to all Nigerians. Today, we have taken another step in the journey to restore hope to Nigerians by submitting the Presidential application of Governor Yahaya Bello. “With this form, we express our sincere assurance that with Yahaya Bello’s candidacy, we have the opportunity to restore to the Nigerian people security, we have the opportunity to restore to the Nigerian people, unity and progress towards prosperity. “On several candidates, we welcome every candidate to the race and we want to encourage all Nigerians to keep faith. Governor Yahaya Bello did not start this effort this month, he did not start it this year, he started it many years ago. He has canvassed the whole country and he has signalled to the Nigerian people his capacity of competence. “He has built his credibility within the party, and he has built allies along religion, across every divide, so we have nothing to fear from other candidates, especially those who are just applying now. We see that some candidates are going around meeting people. We have been doing that for years. We are fully confident by the movement that he represents. POLL “As you see, I am not here by myself, I am with many members of our team as well as supporters, and we are so proud to give Nigerians something great. We have no reservations about his competence. From his first day in office, he started working to unify, to bring security to the state and to restore sanity to the civil service system. This is what he will do as President and we look forward to Nigerian people welcoming him as a candidate come June 1, 2022.”