The aggrieved Ekiti Central Federal Constituency II aspirants on the platform of the ruling All Progressives  Congress (APC) have warned the leadership of the party against generating results for the inconclusive primaries in the constituency. Two of the aspirants, Hon. Wumi Ogunlola and Mr Dele Philip who made their position known at separate press conferences alleged that certain forces within the party were trying to declare one of the contenders the winner of the controversial shadow election. The federal lawmaker who cautioned the party leadership against indulging in an unwholesome act said it could rob the party of the victory. -Advertisement- Ogunlola said, “We are still within the time frame allowed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), let the electoral committee come back to conduct a free and transparent primary. ” Let me warn that there will be consequences for what they are doing because people know who they want. There are things you don’t do when a governorship election is around the corner. Philip said, “What I am asking for is a rerun primary that is free, fair and transparent. President Mohammadu Buhari had directed that the ballot snatcher should be shot, but nothing is heard about the perpetrator. “We are expecting an official statement from the committee or the leadership of the party on when the rerun primary election will take place. “It is surprising that despite the disruption of the process, the party organs in Ekiti and the electoral committee from Abuja are yet to transmit the data for a rerun election,”. POLL In his submission, Philip said “all attempts to submit an official complaint to the party secretary in Ekiti state and the committee from Abuja have also proved unsuccessful. This is due to the closure of the secretariat and the unavailability of committee members. ” Most importantly, it is surprising that despite the disruption of the process, the party organs in Ekiti and the electoral committee from Abuja are yet to transmit the data for a rerun election. ” I am in support of a free and fair electoral process, and would make the below prayers; “The APC electoral committee and the team from Abuja should be physically present at the venue of the rerun election, so as to observe the process. “The original blank result sheet should be made available to all candidates to append their signature before the commencement of the rerun, this is again to authenticate the process. “Based on the above pronunciation, I challenge Hon. Biodun Omoleye publicly disowns the actions of his agent and personal assistant, Femi Awe at the venue of the primary election, and also distances himself from any form of electoral violence. “There is also gain in saying that the tenet of democracy must be sustained in this process. Pre-written results have no place in the current dispensation of democracy in Ekiti state.”Philip said.