Comfort Eyitayo, 57th President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has said that the commissioning of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria Entrepreneurship Development Centre (ICAN-EDC) is an outcome of the passion of the Institute to be part of the solution to the deeply ingrained and worrisome unemployment statistics in the country. She stated this at the weekend while speaking at the commissioning of the ICAN-EDC and the maiden graduation ceremony of participants at the ICAN centre, Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos State. The project which was supported by First Bank of Nigeria according to her is envisioned to provide practical and world-class capacity building programmes in the areas of professional practice and Fintech with the potential for expansion into production activities. -Advertisement- “It is our conscious and deliberate effort to drastically reduce the number of Chartered Accountants, and other participating members of the public, that may be part of the discouraging unemployment figure. “Entrepreneurship is now a globally-acknowledged model for meeting the growing needs for financial self-reliance and freedom. “It is proven to improve the standard of living of the segment of the population who may, either by choice or due to economic downturn, not be able to secure paid employment. Eyitayo said the direct and indirect consequences of unemployment or underemployment in any economy can be telling, as unemployment is a socio-economic challenge of great concern not just for the government of a nation, but other stakeholders in the economy. “Unemployment and underemployment cause distortions in the economy such as increased poverty level, reduction in consumer demand, slow business growth, insufficient mentoring and upskilling of youths, among several others. “When the youths are not gainfully employed, their energies may be channelled to unproductive activities such as restiveness, internet frauds, banditry, robbery, and kidnapping among other social vices. POLL To the graduands, she said, “As you graduate from this Centre today, you have become part of the solution to the problem of unemployment in the country. Be bold to challenge the status quo. “Success as entrepreneurs requires that you take calculated risk, make uncommon and sometimes tough decisions as well as explore the so-called uncharted courses. You must see opportunities in every challenge, turn stumbling blocks into stepping stones and always have a can-do spirit,” she said. Dr Sola Adeduntan, MD/CEO of First Bank of Nigeria who was represented at the event by Patrick Iyamabo, First Bank Chief Finance Officer said the bank’s community development initiatives are hands-on on a strategic tripod of education, health and welfare. “our engagement in sustainable practices is on enhancing economic development, ensuring and re-ensuring economy stability for future generations. In this regard, we are woven into the fabrics of the society to ensure we support and grow the communities in which we work and operate, and so consistent with this belief, we are happy to partner with ICAN in establishing this state of the art centre and in setting up an endowment fund to ensure the sustainability of this centre. He said that the endowment and the initiative of the EDC will empower Chartered Accountants across the nation with an emphasis on financial technology.The centre was unveiled by Dr Emmanuel Ijewere, ICAN’s past President.