LAGOS – As the spate of insecurity in­creases in Nigeria, including Lagos, the Lagos State Gov­ernment has alerted residents about unlicensed e-hailing op­erators plying the state’s roads. The State Government in a statement by Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, Commissioner for Transportation, Lagos State, maintained that such opera­tors constitute security threats to safety of lives and property. The state government, how­ever, threatened to commence clampdown on the violating op­erators very soon and enjoined the citizenry to collaborate by reporting any e-hailing opera­tors different from the licensed companies to it. -Advertisement- Oladeinde mentioned li­censed e-hailing operators as Lagos Ride, Uber, Bolt, Let Me Run, Global Taxi, Zoom Run, Treepz (Plenty Waka) and Shuttlers as the lawful e-hail­ing operators recognised and licensed to operate in Lagos by the government. The government, however, warned that e-hailing opera­tors like In-drivers, Rida and others are not licensed by the government and urged any­one transacting business with them to be wary. Oladeinde stated that the state government has observed high levels of non-compliance by some unlicensed operators who flagrantly violate the guidelines developed to regu­late their activities. Expressing the state gov­ernment’s displeasure over the refusal of the App owners and partners (drivers) to com­ply with the law guiding their operation in the wake of crim­inal activities in the state, the commissioner further revealed the use of unauthorised oper­ators by driver partners and commuting public. Maintaining that the state government has held a series of meetings geared towards compliance with the regula­tions guiding e-hailing oper­ation within the metropolis, Oladeinde urged residents to en­sure that they patronise only the licensed operators as many of the unauthorised operators do not have traceable operational base within the state in case of emergencies or safety concerns. POLL Highlighting the impor­tance of safety of lives and property in the metropolis, the Commissioner declared that only eight out of the several e-hailing operators are regis­tered and recognised by the state government. Oladeinde maintained that the state government would not relent in its effort to make Lagos State safe for all.