MATTHIAS MATTHI JS AND CRAIG PARSONS Which has a more complete single market, the United States or the European Union? Conventional wisdom suggests an obvious answer: the United States. Since 1789, the American federation has pursued its founding mission to guarantee the free flow of interstate commerce. Although many of today’s American progressives want to copy heavy-handed European models of regulation and social welfare, they confront well-organized free marketeers and business interests determined to defend the United States’ system of open capitalism. Across the Atlantic, Europe’s much newer “single-market project” was conceived in envious imitation of the dynamic American economy. Although Brussels has removed many barriers between the EU’s member states, observers still see parallels to the United States as aspirational. As The Economist put it in 2019, “In theory, . . . the EU’s 500m citizens live in a single economic zone much like America, with nothing to impede the free movement of goods, services, people, and capital,” but in reality, Europe’s single market is “creaking,” “incomplete,” and in some ways “actively going backwards.” Brexit, rumbling Euroskepticism on the continent, and the reintroduction of border controls during the COVID-19 pandemic have seemed to confirm this dismal image. The war in Ukraine could mark a shift—rallying EU members to new levels of cooperation on energy and defense—but the EU’s single-market aspirations still face an uphill climb. -Advertisement- What both sides of the Atlantic need to know is that the conventional wisdom is misleading. The United States does enjoy higher flows of interstate commerce and mobility than the EU, but not because it ever completed anything remotely close to Europe’s barrier-removing project. Far from inhabiting a single economic zone today, Americans retain many costly interstate barriers that Europeans have either removed or reduced across their famous “four freedoms”: the free movement of goods, services, capital, and people. Relatively greater cultural and institutional homogeneity and norms of mobility encourage Americans to trade and move across states despite such barriers, not because of their absence. Europe’s project of legislating regulatory openness, meanwhile, has gone further than most people understand. Despite the EU’s aggressive reduction of interstate barriers, however, the union’s heterogeneous citizens still move and trade across borders in comparatively modest numbers. As a result, the economic gains from this project are bought at a relatively high political price. EU member states have given up regulatory discretion and policy levers that U.S. states retain, and in return, they have gotten cross-border opportunities that appeal to a relatively small portion of their electorates. EU policies have restricted the room for national-level democratic choices even though there are far more diverse populations across EU member states than across U.S. states. Understanding the realities of the world’s two largest single markets reveals problems and opportunities on both sides of the Atlantic. The United States’ combination of dense internal flows and taken-for-granted interstate barriers suggests potential gains, both economically and simply in terms of good governance, from adopting some EU-inspired rules. For EU member states, the comparison to the United States should encourage celebration of their achievements and absolution from the elusive goal of complete regulatory harmony. Recognizing a finish line for the single-market agenda will put their Union on a more stable political footing. A clearer understanding of both regulatory arenas can also facilitate transatlantic cooperation—something that has taken on increased urgency in light of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s military invasion of Ukraine and other authoritarian states’ challenges to the liberal international order. Rules Of The Road A single market is a system of regulations that facilitates trade and mobility across jurisdictions—across state lines in the United States and between member countries in the EU. Of course, the actual economic flows across jurisdictions can be helped or hindered by such factors as culture, geography, language, and technology—variables that are distinct from the regulations that make the market a single space of exchange. Those who overlook this distinction assume that the United States’ higher flows of people and products must mean the country has more open rules for interstate exchange than the EU does. POLL To see how wrong that view is, first consider the legal principles for interstate exchange in both places. The U.S. Constitution’s Commerce Clause assigned Congress authority over interstate commerce. The Supreme Court then interpreted that clause as implying that state-level regulation cannot unduly burden interstate commerce—but with considerable wiggle room. The legal standard today bars “purposeful discrimination,” meaning that state regulation cannot disadvantage out-of-state actors unless—a big unless—it serves some plausible public purpose. In the 1970s, the Court also carved out a “market participant exception” to the Commerce Clause. When state governments participate in markets rather than regulating them—for example, by spending on public contracts or giving out subsidies—they may favor their residents. The Court of Justice of the European Union, the arbiter of all EU law, has developed stricter principles for open trade. Starting in the 1970s, it gradually elaborated its interpretation of the EU’s treaties that national measures may not “hinder or make less attractive” cross-border market access. The court also established the principle of “mutual recognition” (also known as “country-of-origin regulation”), whereby goods or services legally sold in one member state may be sold elsewhere without meeting further requirements. Member states may contravene these principles for a long list of reasons, but the court strikes down regulations that it judges to have avoidable “hindering” effects. This is a far more demanding standard than asking if they purposefully make interstate commerce more difficult. The contrasts between U.S. and EU legal principles have been magnified by the behavior of their respective legislatures. Congress has rarely used its Commerce Clause powers to promote interstate openness. Sector-specific legislation does so in transport, telecommunications, and parts of finance, but most federal regulation privileges such goals as food and drug safety, environmental stewardship, and worker and consumer protection. Typically, such laws set regulatory floors above which states may add further requirements, which means that U.S. states can maintain disparate rules for out-of-state actors more freely than EU countries can. Meanwhile, the EU’s institutions have labored much more systematically to legislate openness. Across goods, services, capital, and people—from toys to pharmacists to securities brokers to temp workers— EU legislation aspires to a unified approach: general rules of mutual recognition, with harmonized rules in areas in which member countries balked at mutual-recognition solutions. Theory, Meet Practice How do these legal and legislative differences operate on the ground? Take markets for goods. Implementation of the EU’s openness rules remains a work in progress—and always will. The European Commission struggles to keep up with evolving products and changes in its members’ regulations. It also wrestles with “gold-plating”—when member countries add stricter requirements as they transpose EU directives into national law, much as American states add requirements above federal floors. That said, similar issues typically play out in more pro-openness ways in the EU than in the United States. For example, when Austria passed strong animal-welfare laws in 2004, EU rules required that they apply only to Austrian producers, not to incoming products (such as eggs) that meet common EU standards. By contrast, California’s 2018 animal-welfare law keeps eggs from many states out of its market. Similar comparisons arise even in sectors with relatively strong U.S. federal statutes, such as chemicals, drugs, and toys. Occasionally, the United States achieves systematic rules through “the California effect,” whereby big-state requirements effectively become national standards, but this has been rare outside the classic example of auto emissions. Some goods in American markets lack any coordinated rules: elevator manufacturers tailor different models to varying state or even local standards. The same models are marketable across the EU thanks to its 1995 Lifts Directive. In services, EU and U.S. arrangements are almost mirror images. The EU has established default rules of openness, with exceptions for certain sectors and ongoing struggles of implementation, whereas U.S. service providers confront legally separate jurisdictions with some exceptional areas of openness. EU directives for professional qualifications and services define baseline “harmonized” requirements for sensitive professions, such as doctors and architects, and otherwise stipulate that practitioners meet their home country’s regulations. Special deals preserve more national autonomy in certain sectors—especially in energy, transport, and telecommunications—and implementation of harmonized requirements is far from seamless, but there is a drive to improve it. By 2023, for example, each EU member state must offer a “single digital gateway,” an online portal through which workers moving from one country to another can complete 21 important administrative procedures, including asking for recognition of out-of-state qualifications. In the United States, federal legislation sets largely nationalized rules for transport and telecommunications, but in nearly every other field, service providers must meet each state’s requirements. Professionals seeking another state’s license must pay fees, retest, or repeat training, even when their home state’s requirements are nearly identical. For example, an experienced plumber from Georgia must pass a seven-hour exam to practice in Florida. Interstate compacts offer multistate licenses for a few professions, such as nurses, and private professional associations often reduce fragmentation by selling test-based certifications, but in both cases, states endorse these solutions in a patchwork way. Several recent state laws promise “universal recognition” of out-of-state licenses, but some of these apply only to residents, so they still exclude those offering services across borders. Arizona, for example, will now recognize a psychologist’s California license if she moves to the state, but not if she wishes to see patients in Phoenix from a home base in San Francisco. Telemedicine offers a timely example of these messy arrangements. The pandemic pushed most states to authorize virtual visits across state lines on an emergency basis, but these measures are now lapsing. Only 14 of the 50 states have authorized cross-state telemedicine permanently. It has been allowed across the EU since the early years of this century. (Culled from FOREIGN AFFAIRS, May/June 2022).