LAGOS – Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation has called on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) to ensure the revival of the Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF), which has become inactive in the past four years. This is as Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has challenged key players in the global aviation industry to enhance cooperation, collaboration and co-ordination amongst themselves in a bid to overcome the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure meaningful growth in the industry. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the weeklong 7th Africa-Indian Ocean (AFI) Aviation Week 2022 organised by ICAO in conjunction with NCAA in Abuja, Sirika, said that the HRDF was necessary for the growth of the sector in African and other developing nations. -Advertisement- He appealed to the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC) and other stakeholders on the continent to pressurise the ICAO Secretary General to use his good offices to revive the fund, which had remained inactive since 2018. According to Sirika, Nigeria was one of the major contributors to the fund, which primary purpose was to train technical personnel for the industry, stressing that personnel trained on this programme had gained tremendous knowledge about the industry in the past years. A search by our correspondent indicated that the HRDF was to provide a mechanism, which would allow for the collection and use of voluntary contributions from states and other donors to identify and develop opportunities for capacity-building in civil aviation in African States. The fund would assist them (African States) to better meet the human resource needs required for operational efficiency and continuous implementation of ICAO’s Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) and other programme activities, and which would enable safe and reliable air transport for African States, thereby contributing to the social and economic development in the African region. The funds were contributed voluntarily by member states and were meant for capacity building. POLL Sirika said: “I wish to seize this opportunity to appeal to Member States here present and the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC) and to call on the ICAO Secretary General to use his good offices to revive the ICAO Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF), which has remained inactive since 2018.” “Nigeria generously contributed to this fund and equally benefited from the inaugural secondment of officers to ICAO under this programme. The exposure, experience and knowledge gained by the officers attest to the usefulness of the HRDF programme.” Sirika further reiterated the support of Nigeria to ICAO’s initiatives and collaborate with member states and development partners on the development of air transport in Africa. Also, Nuhu in his speech, pointed out that air transportation has the potential to accelerate the social-economic growth and development of states, which was further brought to the fore by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He stated that two years after the emergence of Covid-19 pandemic, the global aviation industry was still struggling to fully recover from the impact of the disease. Nuhu emphasised that the experience of the last two years has underscored the fact that overcoming challenges and achieving meaningful growth in the industry, could only be achieved through cooperation, collaboration and co-ordination amongst stakeholders. He hoped that the weeklong event would further enhance the collective efforts within the AFI region in the areas of aviation safety, security and facilitation. Besides, he lauded ICAO for providing direction and leadership to states during the devastating period of the pandemic, stressing that apart from the opportunity offered by the gathering to deliberate on aviation safety, security and facilitation, it was also pertinent for stakeholders to identify their common challenges, which were exacerbated by the impact of the pandemic. He added: :This is the only way to come up with far reaching conclusions and recommendations that would enhance speedy recovery of the industry from the impact of COVID-19 and chart new and practical direction not just to enhance the development and growth of air transportation in the region, but to also boost trade and tourism. “I wish to thank my Honourable Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, and the Permanent Secretary Mr Abel Olumuyiwa Enitan, for their support in hosting this event. My appreciation also goes to the organizing committee for all their efforts in making the event a success.” The highlight of the event was the signing of Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) between Nigeria and Sieralone and Nigeria and Rwanda. Nuhu stated that the essence of the MoUs was to enhance safety and collaboration among aviation states in Africa, saying that growth could only be achieved by Africa when member states come together for its expansion. “Nobody can do it for us,: he said.