LAGOS – The girls and boys of Jigawa and Adamawa states have won the 22nd Nestle-Milo Secondary School Basketball Championships held in the Indoor Sports Hall at Sani Abacha Stadium, in Kano. The girls from Government Secondary School, Numan, Adamawa State, outclassed their Government Girls Secondary School, Bukavu, Kano State counterparts 20 to 8 to emerge champions in the girls category while the boys from Dutse Model International Secondary School, Jigawa State won by 51 to 23 against the boys from Nigeria Tulip International College, Yobe, Yobe State in the boys category. The Government Secondary School Numan, Adamawa, the girls basketball team won the competition after defeating their opponents from Government Girls Secondary School, Shekarau School, Kano, 20-8 to win the trophy. The boys’ category was won by Dutse Model international Secondary School, Jigawa which defeated Nigeria Tulip International College, Yobe, 51-23 to win the boys category. -Advertisement- On Thursday, six teams from groups A and B battled it out for the title, according to a statement by Bola Audu, Corporate, Communications Specialist Nestlé Nigeria Plc. Arinze Nancy Nicholas, coach of Dutse Model International Secondary School, Jigawa State sharing her excitement on behalf of her team for emerging winners of the competition, said, “I have had the dream of winning this trophy since 2016, and today, I am happy that this dream has come to pass. I am also happy that we have qualified for the finale in Lagos. We are optimistic that we can also come to Lagos to win in the national finals.” Category Manager for Beverages, Nestlè Nigeria, Mr. Olutayo Olatunji, reiterated Nestle’s commitment to developing talents, enforcing healthier lifetyle, and instilling values and lessons for success through sports. He said, “Milo, firmly believes that through participation in sports, children learn life values that help them on their journey to success. “We are therefore happy to continue to provide this opportunity of the Milo Secondary School Basketball Championship where these young ones can continue to find the opportunities for developing qualities including leadership skills, ability to work in a team, perseverance, courage, self-belief, and respect through their participation. “In a nutshell, ‘the GRIT you learn in sport, you keep for life’. We are grateful to all who supported us to make another successful championship. POLL Puiami Dickson, star player of the Adamawa team, won the Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award of the tournament for the girls’ category. In the boys’ category, the MVP went to Benjamin Ishaku of Dutse Model School, Jigawa. Winners of both categories went home with a trophy as well as N125,000 and N100,000 each, while the runners up pocketed N75,000 and N60,000 respectively. The Savanna Conference was hosted at the Sanni Abacha Stadium, Kano from May 8 to 12, 2022. The States that make up this Conference ar Yobe, Borno, Taraba, Zamfara, and host Kano. Others are Gombe, Katsina, Bauchi and Jigawa. The next conference of the Milo Secondary Schools Basketball Championship – Central Conference – will take place in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital from 14th – 20th May 2022.