***As FCT Minister Task Them On Human Rights Protection ABUJA – Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Friday met with Commanders of different Security agencies and heads of other organizational component of both the Joint Taskforce and the Command and Control Secretariat. The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) met with the Commanders of different Security agencies and heads of other organizational component of both the Joint Taskforce and the Command and Control Secretariat to review enforcement strategies. -Advertisement- The meeting was reportedly called because of the need to ramp up enforcement of laws and rules of engagement while dealing with city clean-up and other lawless acts in the city. Comrade Ikharo Attah, Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to FCT Minister, addressed the participants, saying that the operational methods needed to be reviewed and the team made more efficient in addressing the ills that endanger Abuja’s overall development. He noted that all the different components that make up the joint  taskforce and the other squad must synergize to bring the required results in the city Attah, while conveying the commendation of the Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello to the team over their  efforts and commitment to duty, he also reminded them that ministerial directives that human rights be protected during enforcement remains non negotiable. According to him, the Minister wants security and order maintained in all  parts of the territory, but does not want the rights of law-abiding residents trampled upon. POLL In his remarks, the Commander of security agencies under the  Command and Control Unit, CSP Yusuf Bala pledged the support of all the officers under his control to the reviewed operational strategies. He also urged FCT Minister to make more commitment towards the provisions of operational equipment needed by the Taskforce. Also, the Commander of the Taskforce, Solomon Adebayo who noted that the enforcement operations in the city have been challenging, also appealed to all relevant authorities to improve on the welfare of officers. Adebayo added that officers confidence can be boosted when their welfare is upper most in government’s planning agenda.