ABAKALIKI – The power tussle rocking the Ebonyi State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) came to a head on Tuesday following the three-man delegate election of the party scheduled to hold across the 171 political wards in the State. The Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Nwoba Chika had in a statement stated that the three-man delegate election could not hold in Ebonyi because of issues the party needed to resolve in the State, and further disclosed that the election would hold today, Tuesday. It was, however, gathered that the three-man delegate election could not hold last Saturday in the State because of the chairmanship tussle between Mr Tochukwu Okorie and Barrister Silas Onu. -Advertisement- Recall that Mr Onu who was dissatisfied with the election that produced Tochukwu Okorie as the State Party’s chairman had approached a Federal Court Abuja to ventilate his grouses. The Court, fortnight ago, sacked Okorie and ordered that Onu be recognized as the Party’s chairman in the State. But Okorie held onto the chairmanship seat despite the court judgment, until this week Monday when the national leadership of the party approved Onu’s takeover as chairman. Mr Onu quickly resumed work on Monday at the Party’s Secretariat Abakaliki, where he met with other State working committee and his supporters who came to welcome him. A governorship aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, who is believed to be backing Mr Onu was also at the Party’s Secretariat on Monday to witness Onu’s takeover. POLL However, the three-man delegate election billed for today, Tuesday, could not hold as of the time of filing this report. Aspirants, their supporters and other stakeholders of the party who came to the party’s Secretariat very early on Tuesday awaiting the arrival of the three-man delegate election committee, were disappointed, as they waited in vain. When our Reporter visited the Secretariat at about 4 pm on Tuesday, only one of the Governorship Aspirant, Senator Obinna Ogba was seen standing at the premises of the secretariat with his supporters. Ogba was seen making and answering intermittent phone calls, a signal that indicated that something must be wrong somewhere. DAILY INDEPENDENT gathered that the three-man delegate election committee had been allegedly abducted at Enugu, on their way to Ebonyi. This allegation could not be verified immediately due to the tension at the Secretariat as of the time of filing this report. There was also a heavy shooting at the Party’s Secretariat following an alleged misunderstanding that was ensured among the faithful. The State Chairman, Mr Onu was nowhere to be found at the Secretariat. The charged atmosphere eventually made everybody to desert the Secretariat for fear of further shooting by angry party thugs. More details coming shortly…