ENUGU – The Former National Chairman of All Progressive Congress (APGA), Chief Victor Umeh has emphasized the need for power sharing in order for Nigeria to achieve peace and unity. Speaking with Journalists in Enugu on Thursday, Umeh said “we have said it clearly in the past that for Nigeria to remain together, there is need to share power. “And we have painstakingly looked at the issues and stand firmly together as a people that the only way Nigeria can move on will be for us to accommodate each other. We must show sincerity of purpose and mission towards achieving unity. -Advertisement- “We do not have a country where anybody can do anything alone because nobody can do it alone. He also stressed the need for South Easterner’s be allowed to produce a president come 2023. He said “The South East has eminently qualified people who can provide leadership that will bring prosperity to Nigeria. “Our people are united, South East are united in this aspiration that somebody from here should be the president next year, not by force, but for us to heal the wounds from the past. “Today, Nigeria is a country with so many nations inside it. And the only thing that is making it to look like that is because people are not happy with the way things been done in Nigeria. So if the political gladiators are sincere and they want to keep Nigeria together the best thing to do is to support the south east to become President on the basis of equity and fairness. POLL On Presidential aspirants from the South West, “About the Southwest, the issue of Presidential aspirants, declaring from the Southwest is funny. The Southwest has produced Obasanjo for 8 years. Their son is Vice President for eight years. And the election is coming up next year and all of them are declaring. I don’t understand what they are looking for? because if they want to be United , they will not be seeking to occupy that office next year. It will be insensitivity for them to do that. Let them be united and Support the Igbo President in having a united country. “But if they think that they can do it that way. I will tell you that the restiveness in Nigeria will continue because we need give to Caesar what is for Caesar’s and give to God what is for God. “When I was the Senate Committee on equity, I speak inclusiveness for all Nigerians. Not only the South Easterners but I did for all Nigerians. I spoke against injustice and marginalization of people in this country. “If our president should seek political solution, we need to recover every part of Nigeria in peace. Let us have security of lives. And property across Nigeria. It doesn’t matter where people are being killed. People are being killed all over Nigeria today. We have banditry and kidnapping. All these are things that came up because of social injustice, inequality, and people feeling that nobody cares for them anymore. So we must stay together to pursue the common aspiration of our people,” he said