According to Italian outlet TuttoJuve, Tottenham Hotspur have revived their interest in Juventus midfielder Weston McKennie ahead of the summer transfer window. It looked almost certain that the American would leave Turin last summer. He was linked with plenty of clubs in the Premier League, including Spurs, who did and still do need a midfielder. No move materialised then, but McKennie was once again linked with a move to Tottenham in January. -Advertisement- Spurs decided to sign Rodrigo Bentancur instead in the winter window, but this summer could finally be the time when Tottenham will be able to sign the talented 23-year-old Juventus man. Spurs really need a new midfielder this summer. Antonio Conte let Giovani Lo Celso, Tanguy Ndombele and Dele Alli leave in January, and although Bentancur was brought in, they are still light in the middle of the park. McKennie would be a sensational addition. The American can play anywhere across central midfield and also out wide. He has played 28 times in all competitions this term and Fabio Paratici, the man who bought him to Juventus from Schalke, knows him very well. The report claims that Juventus don’t necessarily want to sell McKennie this summer, but it has been revealed that Spurs are ready to splash £25 million to sign him. POLL McKennie is highly rated in Italy but he’s even more popular in his home country. American legend Alexi Lalas, who has watched a lot of the midfielder over the years, was asked about him, and he went on to compare him to three world-class midfielders. Lalas said in an interview with TuttoSport: “He (McKennie) could be a new Gattuso, who (ex-Juve boss Pirlo) played with the original and knows how important it was for the balance of that Milan. “McKennie has something of Gattuso, but also of Kanté and Vidal. As they say here: Beauty and the Beast. “Beauty and the beast both serve to win. And McKennie, as well as a conqueror of balls, also has excellent skills in the construction of the game and with his head he is always dangerous on inactive balls.”