The Governor of Katsina State, His Excellency, Aminu Bello Masari has joined forces with the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in a bid to drive insurance penetration in the state. The governor who advised the NAICOM to involve the Internal Revenue Board; the Police; Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC); the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), amongst others in its programmes noted that the collaboration would spur up enforcement and compliance with insurance buy-in in the state. Olorundare Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance, had told Governor Aminu Bello Masari during NAICOM’s visit to Katsina that his team was in the state to partner the government on the Takaful insurance for the residents to reap its benefits. -Advertisement- He called on Katsina State citizens to take advantage of the Takaful insurance and other mandatory policies for their wellbeing; stressing that the mission of the commission is to spread its message to farmers and other small and medium scale businesses in the State to take up insurance. “We are committed to the sensitisation and enlightenment programme on the numerous benefits of the scheme to enable the poor citizens to reap its benefits,” he said. Welcoming the NAICOM team to the state, Governor Masari said the commission has much work to do by way of enlightenment of the people on the benefits of the scheme. He noted that the informal sector being one of the drivers of the economy must be properly sensitised to achieve the commission’s goal in the state. Governor Masari further said that for the Takaful, the Islamic variant of insurance, to gain ground and succeed, the religious leaders and other security agencies must be involved to ensure that the people understand the scheme, and enable them to reap its full benefits. POLL “If you embark on the sensitisation and enlightenment exercise through the religious leaders and others, the programme will receive acceptance amongst the people,” Governor Masari stated. However, he added that owing to the benefits of the programme, the state government would make provision in its annual budget estimates to cover its vehicles, buildings and other types of insurance.