***Promises Over 50% Youth Engagement In Federal Cabinet ABUJA – Professor Robert Ajayi Boroffice, Senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, on Saturday joined the Presidential race by formally declaring his intention to contest for the seat of President, come 2023 Elections under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Addressing crowd of supporters at the Nicon Luxury Hotel, Area 11, Garki Abuja, venue of the occasion, Senator Boroffice declared that his agenda for the progress of Nigeria is codified in four pillars of Security, Economic Development, Education and Human Resources Development and Anti-Corruption Crusade. -Advertisement- “The National Development Plan (2021 – 2025) is a well thought out plan on how to address these challenges. I have the political will to mobilize human, financial and natural resources to vigorously implement this plan. “We shall mainstream science and technology in our national policy and development strategy to drive industrialization. The difference between developed and developing economies is the level of investment and application of science and technology as a tool for National development. “My agenda for the progress of Nigeria is codified in four pillars of Security, Economic Development, Education and Human Resources Development and AntiCorruption Crusade” he said. According to the Presidential aspirant, the 4-pillars of progressive agenda has 9-Point policy priorities as captured in the National Development Plan. He named the nine point policy priorities to include Improve security for all; Build a thriving and sustainable economy; Enlarge agriculture output for food security; Attain energy sufficiency in power and petroleum products; Expand transport and other infrastructure development and Expand business growth, Entrepreneurship and industrialisation. POLL Others are Improve access to quality education, affordable healthcare and productivity; Enhance social inclusion and reduce poverty; and Build systems to fight corruption, improve governance and create national cohesion. Boroffice noted that Nigeria’s journey was derailed by unceasing Military interruption of democracy prior to the advent of Fourth Republic in 1999, stressing that these realities coupled with mind-boggling corruption are chiefly responsible for the state of development in Nigeria. He pledged to improve the nation’s economy through strategic industrialization and youth empowerment promising to appoint youths in the proportion of over 50% of the federal cabinet. “To ensure a thriving and sustainable economy, energy sufficiency in power is a pressing need. The problems facing the power sector are numerous but not insurmountable. I have the political will to coordinate good policies that will make the industry work. “The issues that plague the power industry include financing, gas supply, generation capacity, transmission capacity and metering, and distribution capacity. These issues need to be tackled holistically. “The near future of Nigeria’s power generation capacity will depend on our Country’s abundant supply of natural gas. Nigeria has 187 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves which is the 9th largest in the world and about 3% of the world’s total gas reserves. “At our current consumption levels, it will take us 306 years to exhaust. We need to harness this resource to begin to fix Nigeria’s power deficit. “I strongly believe in women’s inclusion in the administration of our dear Country. I think the National Gender Policy (NGP) of 35 percent affirmative action is a great idea. I will take deliberate steps to ensure women are appointed to play active roles in governance processes. “Moreover, I will fight to improve a lot of women in Nigeria by addressing the issue of misogyny in our society. I will put in place policies and promote laws that give women a fair chance in our courts and open up opportunities in our economy for the aspirations and desires of women. “For the youth population whose demography is over 60% of our Nation’s population, I will tap into your passion, patriotism, innovative capacities, and energy to deliver development and progress. We will harvest the zeal and energy of our youths to unlock the wealth of our nation. The youths have the innovative skills to navigate the global economy and integrate Nigeria into the mainstream of global digital economy. “Furthermore, the youth population enjoys my firm commitment to appoint youths in the proportion of over 50% of the federal cabinet. No portfolio will be too big or too sensitive for young, qualified and competent Nigerians to handle”, he said.