LAGOS – The Nigeria Police have arraigned four teachers from the Chrisland School, Lagos, before a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly concealing sex tape of a student. The affected teachers, three male and one female who supervised the Dubai Trip are Oladotun Sotunde, Elesho Tajudeen, Ajiboye Ahmed and Rhoda Olanipekun. They were arraigned on a two-count charge bordering on conspiracy and attempt to pervert justice. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. -Advertisement- The Police officer in charge of the Legal Department at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti, Mrs. Yetunde Cardoso, said the defendants committed the offence on April 25, at Chrisland School, in Victoria Garden City, Idimu, Lagos. She said that the defendants were asked to accompany and supervise the students to Dubai for a world school games. She added that the students engaged in indecent sexual acts while on the trip and a 13-year-old student made a sex tape which the teachers conspired to conceal. She stated that the teachers allegedly obstructed the course of justice by hiding the indecent acts of the students’ sex video before it later went viral. The offence was said to have contravened the provisions of 411 and 97 (1) (3) of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). Following their arraignment and a plea of not guilty, the presiding Magistrate, Adeola Adedayo, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N300,000 each with three responsible sureties each in like sum. POLL She held that the sureties must submit copies of their National Identification Number (NIN), and their Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) card. She further directed that one of the sureties must be a land owner, but all of them must be residing within the court’s jurisdiction and be gainfully employed with evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State Government. Magistrate Adebayo ruled that the case file be duplicated and sent to the Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice. She adjourned the case until June 13 for mention. The Section 97 provides seven years imprisonment for the offence of attempting to pervert justice while Section 411 provides two years for conspiracy.