IBADAN – Government at all levels have been called upon to sponsor programmes that would enable fitness of citizens in coping with any critical challenge that might be hazardous to their health and safety. The call was made by a fitness instructor over the weekend during the Aerobics and fitness session organized by Ere-Ije Ibadan team in conjunction with The Oyo State Ministry Of Youth and Sport and Malta Guinness which was themed: “Fitness for All” in commemoration of 2022 World Fitness day. The fitness instructor, Ambassador Romoke Ayinde described fitness as an all encompassing ability to execute daily activities with optimal performance, while stressing the need for more support from corporate organizations towards innovative sporting activities. -Advertisement- According to her “My message especially is to Corporate organizations, they are not doing their work, I must confess to you that it took over three, four months to organise this programme because of lack of support and sponsorship.” She said further, “An individual cannot do it, Government is trying to do it’s best but on this Sports aspect, to encourage our Youths, even this insecurity that we are talking about, if corporate organizations can come around youths and sponsor a lot of programmes like this, it would be reduced.” Also speaking during the programme which held simultaneously at the Liberty Stadium and Mapo Hill in Ibadan with over 1,000 participants, the project’s director, Ere-Ije, Ibadan, Adebayo George, stated that the need to sensitize people on importance of exercise necessitated the organization of the program in the ancient city of Ibadan. George said, “Ere-Ije is actually the Yoruba interpretation of racing for games and this has to do with physical fitness, strength and endurance which are all signs of healthy and good living.” He explained further, “You know because it is Ibadan and Ibadan is an ancient city, so we try to localize it for the benefit of all in order to promote our campaign for healthy-living, because health challenges can be prevented by daily and routine exercises.” POLL In his contributions, another fitness instructor, Oyewusi Oyedare, called for a change in the perception of Nigerians towards physical exercise, saying exercise is the basic key to good health. Some of the trainees at the 2022 Ere-Ije Ibadan, Lawal Adewale and Kate Deji, commended the initiative and urged people to inculcate the act of exercising as part of their daily living, emphasizing that constant sporting activity prevent ailments.