IBADAN – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo state has called on security Operatives especially the Nigerian Police, Oyo state command, to as a matter of urgency investigate Senator representing Oyo Central senatorial district, Teslim Kolawole Folarin over the alleged assassination attempt on Honourable Shina Peller’s life noting that such allegation readily confirms its fears about Folarin’s desperation. It would be recalled that the ruling PDP in Oyo state had earlier cautioned Senator Folarin over what was described as brazen and public flaunt of a double edged sword at a public event in the state earlier in the month. The ruling party said such disregard for law and decorum by the senator was the height of political rascality born out of Folarin’s unrestrained desperation to be governor of the state by all means including his alleged attempt on his co-partyman, Hon. Peller’s life as well as unleashing terror on anyone on his way. -Advertisement- Oyo state PDP in a press release on Monday May 30, made available to journalists by its State Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, noted that Senator Folarin’s alleged involvement in the gruesome death of former leader of the proscribed transport union, NURTW, in Oyo state, ‘Eleweomo’ still remains fresh in the minds of many residents especially members of the proscribed union. The party wondered what business of Governor Seyi Makinde it is as to what happens in the opposition party. It described Folarin as a political neophyte whose disposition to public Office is always “me against them” saying Makinde as the Executive Governor of Oyo state has continued to receive and host top politicians in the opposition party both in the state and entire country stressing that the world has move far past Folarin’s kind of “gutter” politics which could pass for “abula politics”. While cautioning Folarin to keep Governor Makinde’s name out of his mouth in his political misery the party said Folarin’s penchants for the number one seat was born out of self delusion by thinking he has any political pedigree or character required for such exalted office stressing that late baba Adedibu of blessed memory and the PDP in their bid to groom younger breeds into positions of leadership made him whatever he is today. The statement added that despite the PDP’s efforts on Folarin’s political career, the lawmaker has yet to learn the rudiments of decorous politics as obtainable and practicable in a twenty first century society across the globe apart from the senator’s usual show of political hooliganism and his ‘jaagba’ politics using thugs and hired political machineries on perceived opponents such as Hon. Peller. “Senator Folarin has through his conducts and attitude toward politics continued to bring shame and reputational reproach to our political space in Oyo state in the eyes of others from other parts of Nigeria because he has continued to wallow in self delusion and unrestrained desperation for the number one office in Oyo state. POLL “We know Folarin’s political history and antecedents including his capabilities in terms of relationship with political thugs which was evident in the Eleweomo’s saga. The news of how ‘Eleweomo’ was gruesomely murdered and his alleged link with the incident still remain fresh in our minds till date. We fully understand his disposition and core beliefs as the king of ‘jagba’ politics wherever he goes but we assure him, there will be no place for him to hide this time should he be found culpable in the assassination attempt on Hon. Peller’s life as alleged because this is purely a security matter. “We’re also not unmindful of Folarin’s unbridled penchants for tying his political woes to Governor Seyi Makinde’s hard earned reputation because it is his best way of getting himself into the news. A politician and a serving senator of the federal republic who has been privileged to be beneficiary of political struggles and sacrifices through sweat and blood of others but still refuses to learn the rudiments of playing decorous politics as obtainable and practicable in other saner clime can clearly pass for a misfit and a total failure. “Instead of providing the people his three years stewardship so far in the Senate, Folarin continued in his usual manner of political hooliganism of unleashing terror on others perceived to be his opponents especially in his APC. Thank God those boys the whole world know are his political thugs have been apprehended by the gallant security agents, we dare Folarin to deny having connection with them as we await outcome of further investigations by the police”, the PDP stated.