A public affairs commentator, Olukayode Salako has described the call by the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, for a government of national unity, as germane, adding that GNU is not is a hard nut to crack in proffering assuring solutions to the problems of Nigeria. Salako in a chat with Daily Independent noted that Afenifere as one of the strongest socio-cultural and political groups in the country has been advocating consistently within the purview of its rights and privileges to advocate for various lofty solutions to the perennial problems of Nigeria since time immemorial. He pointed out that the disturbing thing about this is that, the authority at the federal power brokerage level in Nigeria in charge of listening to those calls, seems not to be interested and purposely in tune with such realistic efforts. -Advertisement- According to him, the refusal to listen to those calls has held the country in a bandage of ideal growth and development for many years. “I really do not think that government of unity is a hard nut to crack in proffering assuring solutions to the problems of Nigeria, but some of those solutions seem not to be striking the right cords in the right places. “With the current situation of the country, Afenifere’s call is germane, and by now, I expect that the country would have convened either a general meeting, or a sort of conference somewhere to be in serious talks with selected statesmen; representative of the people, and major stakeholders in the business of running this country. “Serious talks for workable, assuring and long-lasting solutions should have been going on by now. But it would hardly happen because some stakeholders are benefiting from the system and its current situation as we speak. So, they don’t want it to change. They fear that if it changes, their own source of survival from the polity might be affected. “Government of national unity is not the only solution to the problems of Nigeria. There have been several calls like that from several other complementary socio-cultural and political organizations from other regions in the country over the many years, but nothing seems to have been done for good solutions to the issues on the table, because it seems the North is not just interested in its own sinister purpose. POLL “Afenifere, Ohaneze, PANDEF et al have been making other calls like that. Restructuring of the polity; constitutional reforms; regional system of government; state policing and true federalism et Cetra, have been some of the other calls all these groups have been frustratingly advocating for, but the people at the federal level seem not to be bothered about it,” he said. Salako further explained that what the Northern region of the country, especially wants is that one Nigeria mentality and its federal system of government. “That is what the North wants. And that is what the North seems to be comfortable with. From the body language of that region, it just wants Nigeria to continue to run under the current unitary system of government. “So, all along, groups like the Afenifere and co. have just been sounding like the grounding machines, good enough only for the making of the noise, and not the solution to the problems of the pepper. “To me, the fundamental problem of Nigeria is the peculiar nature of the people at the corridors of power in the country. “They are only interested in the benefits they are getting from current Nigeria, and not realistic, sincere and genuine solutions to her agelong challenges and problems. “Afenifere could be right, but for how long would the apex socio-cultural and political group in Nigeria continue to bark, before those who are supposed to find solutions to the problems of Nigeria allow the noise to be heard and work for our ideal co-existence in Nigeria? “I like to also let Nigeria know that, for as long as the North and the South continue to maintain their present incompatible positions on the issue of the way and manner present Nigeria has been running, then this is the way we would continue to get it from present Nigeria and nothing better would ever change for the happiness and satisfaction of the generality of Nigerians. “They seem to be comfortable with the current situation of the country. That is why all the possible solutions socio-cultural groups have been making calls for over the many years, seem to be falling on dear ears. “However, it is so worrisome to see that most of the people, who are supposed to find lasting solutions to the problems of Nigeria, are still the same people crying and lamenting every day for her problems. “Who will now solve the problems of Nigeria when the same people who are supposed to work for the solutions are still the same people benefiting from her woes, and at the same time, crying for her solutions? “Afenifere could be right to be making such calls, but who will listen to its cries, when seemingly none of what it has been crying for over the years, has ever been listened to for consideration in the right quarters of decision making in the country?” he queried.