UYO – Residents of villages along Ekparakwa/Ikot Abasi road in OrukAnam local government area, Ikot Ebak, Ikot Akaam, Ibekwe Akpan axis in Mkpat council areas of Akwa Ibom state have cried out to the Nigeria Police Force and State Government to save their souls. The public outcry followed recent cases of kidnapping and daylight robbery which have in recent months led to the alleged abduction of no fewer than 18 persons. The latest and most recent case is Sunday night abduction of a Catholic Priest identified as Alphonsus Uboh in  the church premises. -Advertisement- Father Alphonsus Uboh is the Parish Parish Priest of X Parish located at Ikot Abasi Akpan along Ekparakwa Etinan road in Mkpat Enin local government area of the state. An eyewitness who spoke with our correspondent in Uyo on Monday said the gunmen arrived the church premises at exactly 7pm on Sunday  in a motorcycle convoy, forced their way into the church premises and whisked the priest away on their motorcycle, after shooting sporadically into the air. Recall that the founder and President of Solid Rock Kingdom Church was two weeks ago abducted in his residence but later regained freedom after spending four days in the kidnappers den. Residents who confided in our correspondent reported that the Ekparakwa area and other adjoining villages in OrukAnam and Mkpat Enin have been robbed daily,  while others are kidnapped for ransom. Mr Akpan Hogan, a youth from one of the affected  communities told our correspondent that no fewer  than 18 persons were abducted in the communities between November 2021 and April 2022, adding that the area is not safe at the moment. POLL Hogan  listed other  victims to include shop owners, civil servants such as teachers, nurses and local businessmen in the area. He regretted that gunmen have taken over the area, kidnapping and killing innocent people. He recalled that a Medical Doctor at Health Centre Ikot Ekpaw, a neighbouring village to Ekparakwa was whisked away at gunpoint  while attending to patient in the theatre in February this year. Another source and petty trader, Madam Grace Udoh told newsmen that residents of the area especially in Ikot Akaam could no longer sleep in their houses at night while some have fled for fear of being kidnapped or killed by the gunmen. She revealed dangerous spots along Ekparakwa -Ikot Abasi road where the gunmen ambush market women, traders and motorists for their operations to include a deep pothole area after former Hapel company yard before the sharp corner to Ikot Ebak village,  adding that many have been killed on the said spot. Udoh said the situation became worst when motorists diverted the bad spot on the road during the recently concluded rehabilitation of Ekparakwa-Ikot Abasi road,  and the gunmen also relocated to the road killing innocent commuters who resisted them in their robbery . “One day a woman who dealt on palm oil returned from market. Unknown to her, the gunmen had laid ambush on the diverted road, they intercepted her robbed her of N700,000 cash and killed her.” A Youth Leader who craved anonymity disclosed that Ikot Ebak, Ibekwe Akpan Nya and neighbouring villages in OrukAnam local government areas have become flash points for criminal activities in recent time . He said the climax of their operations was when the founder of Solid Rock Kingdom Church Apostle John Okoriko was abducted in his residence few weeks ago. In his words “After the man of God was released from the kidnappers den, two persons were shot dead in the community last Wednesday,  during an early morning raid. The kidnappers have converted the bush in one of the primary schools to their hide-out where they caged their victims”, he said When contacted, the  Police Public Relations Officer, Akwa Ibom State Command, SP Odiko Mcdon confirmed the abduction of the Catholic Priest and other criminal activities in the area and promised that the Command was on its toes to restore normalcy to the area. “We have received that report from the area and we are working on it”,  he said.