The Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) has renewed its six-year partnership with the Moroccan bank for agriculture entered in 2016, and geared toward the promotion of inclusive growth and sustainable development of the agriculture sectors of both countries through the facilitation of finance & investment, trade and support systems across agricultural value chains. The follow-up Memorandum of Understanding with Credit Agricole Du Maroc (CAM) was signed in Rabat Morocco by the Managing Director/CEO of NIRSAL Plc, Mr Aliyu Abdulhameed, and his Moroccan counterpart, the Chairman of the Management Board of Credit Agricole Du Maroc (CAM), Mr Tariq Sijilmassi. According to a NIRSAL statement, the latest MoU expanded the scope of the earlier pact to include B2B relationships, capacity building, knowledge transfer, and digital agribusiness risk management solutions. -Advertisement- Among the short and medium-term undertakings outlined by the MOU, NIRSAL Plc and CAM will work towards forging a common front to the managers of the Land Degradation Neutrality (LDN) Fund in a bid to attract global finance for sustainable agribusiness investments. Also, CAM’s vast experience in developing solutions for the financial integration of smallholder farmers in Africa would also benefit NIRSAL Plc in opening up more pathways for critical finance to enter the agricultural primary production sub-sector in Nigeria. The MoU is also committing the two institutions to mutually prospect and implement agriculture-oriented projects that benefit both organisations and their host countries. Speaking at the MOU signing event, Mr Abdulhameed elaborated on NIRSAL Plc’s areas of need to include the development of financing products that suit the seasonality of agriculture and other farming contexts, emphasizing the difficulties smallholders experience in keeping to the terms of conventional bank financing products. He expressed confidence that innovative financing products that speak to the peculiarities of agricultural primary production would help agriculture financiers to maximize the benefits and incentives in the 75% Credit Risk Guarantee (CRG) issued by NIRSAL Plc for primary production projects, as well as Interest Drawbacks (IDB) of up to 40% that diligent borrowers can enjoy. According to him commercial lenders in Nigeria have injected over N152.8 Billion into the agriculture sector in the last six years, with credit crystallization rate still below 1%, leveraging NIRSAL’s CRG facility, POLL . NIRSAL he said has blended has opened unique financing innovations to spur the growth of agriculture, becoming a reference point for emerging Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) across Sub-Saharan Africa. CAM, he noted is a more experienced institution from which, according to Mr Abdulhameed, NIRSAL Plc is eager to learn. Established in 1961, CAM is a universal bank that ‘finances all sectors, with agricultural expertise as a particular vocation’. Within the framework of national investment programs, CAM works to enhance agricultural activities and stabilize rural populations by sustainably improving their standard of living. Beyond its agricultural expertise, CAM is also involved in several other financing projects, particularly in rural areas, through its network of 543 branches across the Kingdom of Morocco. With special abilities in the design and deployment of products and services that are tailored to customers’ needs, CAM has ingrained itself into the very fabric of Moroccan life whilst holding equally sizeable portfolio abroad. Consequently, through its sixty-year existence, the bank has granted over USD10 Billion in loans, making a profit of USD430 Million, he stated.