LAFIA – Nasarawa State governor Abdullahi Sule, on Tuesday inaugurated the sales of fertilizer for the 2022 cropping season in the state as part his administration plan to tackle food security in the statespeaking while inaugurated sales of farm input Sule, said Nasarawa State is endowed with fertile land and good climatic condition, suitable for the production of arable crops for both domestic and export consumption. He informed that more than 80% of Nasarawa State population are engaged in one farming activity or the other; adding that agriculture has become a major employer of labour and the most viable vehicle for achieving food security in the State. According to Sule “Today, we are gathered to flag-off the sales of 1,035metric tons (20,700 bags) of fertilizer for the year 2022 cropping season which will be sold to our farmers at subsidized rate of N10,000only per bag. I, therefore, charge the beneficiaries to ensure judicious use of the commodity to increase your yields. -Advertisement- Sule , recalled that, last year,Government procured and distributed 600 metric tons of assorted fertilizers and other farm inputs to dry season farmers at subsidized rates for the 2021 Dry Season Farming. He explained that effort was aimed at improving agricultural production, considering the availability of different soil texture suitable for cultivation of various crops in the State. The governor who further maintained that as part of his administration commitment to revolutionize the agricultural sector in the State, the have also keyed into the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project (RAAMP), saddled with the responsibility for the construction of rural roads that will enable our teeming farmers to transport their products to the markets. He also noted that government is currently working towards tackle challenges bedeviling the agricultural sector such as banditry, farmer/herder crisis and inadequate resources to fully drive the sector. The governor however warn those handling the sales of fertilizer to be held responsible for any anomaly in the distribution of the fertilizer in their respective domain. POLL Earlier on his remarked the commissioner for Agriculture and water resources Mr. Nuhu Oshafu, appreciated Governor Sule, for promptly approving funds for the procurement of fertiliser for the 2022 Cropping Season. The commissioner, advised farmers to take advantage and maintain a closer contact with extension workers so as to keep abreast of new technologies in the field of agriculture. Oshafu, also said that the state government has pursued and implemented farmers friendly policies and provided critical farm inputs such as fertiliser, Agro-Chemicals among others to farmers in the State. He further explained that the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources in collaboration with the State Agricultural Development Programme (NADP) has intensified Extension Services by which farmers were acquiring new and modern farming techniques and improved technologies in order to increase increased productivity.