One of the prominent aspirants to Owo/Ose federal constituency’s seat at National Assembly on the platform of All Progressives Congress(APC), Dr. Abiola Oshodi, has alleged disenfranchisement of his supporters who were to be elected as ward delegates. He alleged that a prominent chieftain of the party, who’s also his major contender in the party’s primary, has hijacked the process as a list of delegates are being compiled in secret. The Canada-based psychiatrist, in a statement, disclosed that the election of ward delegates who were to complement the statutory delegates was slated to hold on Monday, but members of the party waited endlessly for the conduct of the election to commence. -Advertisement- Oshodi, therefore, called on Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the national leadership of the party to arrest the situation and ensure a level playing field for all aspirants as earlier promised. The statement reads in parts: “You will recall that the election to elect delegates in the forthcoming primary election of the All Progressives Congress ought to have taken place on Monday, May 17 and Tuesday, May 18 2022. “The elected delegates are supposed to complement the statutory delegates in the forthcoming primary election for the House of Representatives taking place on May 24, 2022. “To our greatest surprise, party members who thronged the venues of the congress in Owo/Ose Federal Constituency were disappointed as the election did not hold. “This, to us, is against the dictates of the national leadership of our great party, the All Progressive Congress. Further investigation revealed that particularly, our main opponent in the forthcoming primary election has fraudulently hijacked the entire processes. POLL “We further got briefed that their camp is now writing the lists in their hideouts. This action in indicative that under a normal democratic process, they are aware they will lose the election. “The leader of the party and the Governor of the State, Arakurin Olawarotimi Odunayo had repeatedly assured party members of a level playing field, such is required at Owo/Ose Federal Constituency at the moment, and we are by this press release calling on our talk and do governor,  whom we know is a democrat and the national leadership of the party to call to order all unscrupulous elements working against the party through monopolization of the processes of the conduct of the Congress in the Owo/Ose Federal Constituency. “Again, we want to advise these undemocratic elements to stop dragging the good name of our revered Governor in the murky waters of desperate politicking. “Anything that will pitch the party against its members must be avoided at all cost. Our understanding of democracy is not the one in which an individual or group of individuals must force their wills on the people. The democracy we know is the one that allows the majority of party members to decide who represent them. “The party is being alerted that the process to conduct a free, fair and credible primary election in Owo/Ose Federal Constituency is about to be  scuttled. It is time party leadership rose to defend and uphold their promises. To be forewarned is to be forewarned.”