Last week, we started a series on the role of leadership and work. We established that leadership exists only in the context of work. Today’s article will explore how leaders get the best out of people. How do leaders influence people to show a greater commitment to their tasks? They do so by making work meaningful, the working environment conducive, and the worker productive. Make Work Meaningful -Advertisement- The first responsibility of great leaders is to make work meaningful and help people find meaning at work. Work must be meaningful for people to show commitment to the organisation’s causes. So, how do leaders make work meaningful? We now know that people’s work can be classified as a job, a career, or a calling. Here is a simple summary: • Job—what I do to make ends meet. It is about pay. I do not enjoy it; I will not recommend it to others; I cannot wait to get out of it. • Career—I like the prospects of what I am doing—financial, social standing, career opportunities, and so on. I am in it for the long haul and will keep developing myself. • Calling—What I do is an integral part of who I am. I feel drawn to the work beyond money or career advancement; It brings me a deep sense of fulfilment because I think my work is socially relevant. POLL For example, writing might be a job for someone, a career for another, and a calling for others. The difference is not the work but the lens through which we see the work. What is a calling? Primarily, a calling is seeing your work—irrespective of its nature—as an avenue to be a blessing to others and contribute to the growth of society. While a job focuses on immediate financial returns and a career focuses on the long-term prospects of the job, a calling focuses on the meaning and purpose of the job. Without infusing without the sense of purpose and calling into our jobs, boredom will result. The elixir of pay only lasts for a short while; the attraction of a career can only sustain you for the medium term. The sense of purpose and meaning infused into work is what keeps people going for the long haul. So one strategy leaders use to make work meaningful is to connect what their people do to the organisation’s overall purpose. They start with the why—the overall purpose—before the what—the activity. For example, John F Kennedy, in his “Man on The Moon Speech”, started with the why. He described space exploration as the next frontier of the battle between freedom and tyranny and challenged Americans to take the leadership role as the defender of freedom everywhere. Then he explained the what—landing a man on the moon and returning the person safely before the decade is over. The speech so resonated that in 1962 when JFK went to NASA and saw a janitor carrying a broom, he casually asked him what he did for NASA, the man replied, “I am helping to put a man on the moon.” That’s what purpose does. We find meaning not in the activity (carrying a broom, sweeping the floor) but in the purpose of the activity (helping to put a man on the moon). Meaning happens when people can connect their day-to-day activity to the organisation’s overall purpose. Leaders make work meaningful. They have an uncanny ability to help people see the organisation’s purpose and connect their day-to-day tasks to it. Work only has meaning when we look beyond the nature of what we do to the purpose of the task—the difference our jobs make in the lives of others. This is more than just semantics. Organisational psychologists have discovered that when people reframe their jobs in a meaningful way and the impact of what they do, it makes all the difference in their attitude to work and motivation. No matter how wonderful it is at the outset, every job tends to become routinised and eventually boring over time. A heart surgeon might be excited about performing his first heart surgery, but by the time he has completed one hundred heart surgeries, the novelty of performing heart surgeries might have worn off. What will keep the doctor excited is if he believes that every heart surgery is an opportunity to save a life and help put smiles back into families. Saving lives is the higher purpose. Operating or prescribing is the task. Next week, we will look at the other two factors that unleash productivity at work. This article is an excerpt from Chapter Three of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.