It Is Health That Is Real Wealth And Not Pieces Of Gold And Silver– Mahatma Gandhi Towards the continued fulfilment of its Town and Gown Corporate Social Responsibility connect, the Lagos State University led by Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji has taken its LASUDA-driven Free Medical Outreach to Eredo LCDA, Eredo, Epe in Lagos. -Advertisement- On Thursday, May 19, 2022, the Lagos State University Directorate of Advancement (LASUDA) under the directorship of Prof. ‘Yinka Okubena – Dipeolu staged the 8th editionof the LASU medical outreach the community in conjunction with the Epe General Hospital, the Aladeshonyin of Odo Noforija Kingdom, HRM Oba Dr. Babatunde Olaogun Ogunlaja and supported by the Eredo LCDA. The Executive Chairman, Eredo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Hon. Ismail Monsuru Akinloye who was represented by the Vice Chairman, Hon. Adesanya Lateef thanked the Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji – Bello, mni, members of the Management, the leadership of Epe General Hospital and the Royal Father, HRM. Oba Dr. Babatunde O. Ogunlaja JP. FMBE. HONS. Aladeshonyin (Paramount Ruler of Odo Noforija Kingdom, Epe Division, Lagos State) for supporting the health programme. POLL Hon. Adesanya while noting that “Health is wealth”, appreciated the members of the community present, and urged them to take full advantage of the health programme. He encouraged them to always check their health status in order to ensure healthy living. The Director, Lagos State University Directorate of Advancement (LASUDA), Prof. ‘Yinka Okubena – Dipeolu thanked all the invited guests and members of the community on behalf of the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji – Bello, mni, for attending the event. She equally commended the Medical Director, Epe General Hospital, Dr. Sunday Oluseyi Adesola, members of his team, the Chairman, Hon. Ismail Monsuru Akinloye who was represented by the Vice Chairman, all the support staff and health workers for their effort, support and contributions, adding that, the programme was the 8th edition. The Medical Director, Epe General Hospital, Dr. Sunday Oluseyi Adesola advised the participants to present themselves for all the free medical tests available and if there were cases that needed referrals his representatives would be glad to act without delay. Health Talk was delivered by one of the Assistant Directors in the Directorate, Dr. Omowunmi Bakare. The Free Medical Outreach Mission include : Weight, Height, Blood Pressure, Blood Glucose, HIV Test, Hepatitis B Test, Eye Screening, Breast Cancer Screening, Cervical Screening and Prostate Cancer Screening. Other dignitaries who gave goodwill messages include : the representative of HRM. Oba Babatunde Olaogun Ogunlaja, Aladeshonyin Paramount Ruler of Odo Noforija Kingdom, Epe, Lagos, High Chief Odofin Musiliu Gbadejo (Odofin of Noforija), Supervisor for Health, Princess Ogunsanwo Felicia, Apex Nurse, Epe General Hospital, Mrs. Balogun Grace, Deputy Chief Nursing Officer, Mrs. Dawodu Folashade Omotola and Head, Epe Campus, Prof. Rafiu O. Okuneye who was represented by the Head of Registry, Epe and Deputy Registrar, Mrs. Aramide Onikoyi – Obikoya. The Head of Bursary, Epe, Mrs. Adejoke Adenuga, Head, Internal Audit, Mr. Mr. Z.A Ojaomo, Dental Consultant, Dr. Elueme Christ and Dr. Oyenusi (Eye Department) were part of the event. The health programme was witnessed by the Leader of the House Eredo, LCDA, Hon. Tunde Bakare, Supervisor for WAPA, Mrs. Jagunna Bilikis, Special Adviser on Health Matters, Mrs. Akingbade Rukayat and Head, Public Affairs, Mr. Olaojubu Idowu Nathaniel, Human Resource Officer, Epe General Hospital, Mr. Gbenga Ajiboye, all Medical Team from Epe General Hospital, Commanding Officer 81 Division, Major Atumeyi and Olori Adepeju Okubena (Olori Oba Erunwon Ijebu and Vice Principal, St. Patrick Junior Grammar School). The Assistant Directors, LASUDA in attendance were : Dr. Fatai Abatan, Dr. Funmi Ometan, Ms. Aminat Ige. Other Senior members of staff of the University on LASUDA team include : Senior Assistant Registrar, Mr. Taiwo Peters, Women Leader, SSANU/Chief Assistant Secretariat Officer, Mrs. Mosunmola Durodola, Mrs. Serah O. Adekanmbi, Assistant Chief Executive Officer (Bursary)/Finance Officer, LASUDA, Mrs. A. Abolore Aregbe, Mr. Emmanuel Akanbi and Mr. Ashele Babatunde (University Multimedia Centre), Mr. Alimi Taofeek and Assistant Chief Executive Officer (Information)/Head, Media Relations, Mr. Olaniyi S. Jeariogbe. Vote of thanks was given by Dr. Fatai Abatan Earlier, the LASUDA Team paid courtesy and “Thank You” visits to the Head of Campus, Epe, Prof. Rafiu O. Okuneye, Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Prof. Nurudeen Adekunle Raji, Managing Director, General Hospital, Epe, Dr. Sunday Oluseyi Adesola and to the palace of HRM. Oba Dr. Babatunde O. Ogunlaja JP. Recall that the 9th substantive Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University, Prof. Ibiyemi Ibilola Olatunji – Bello, mni, was the pioneer Director of the University’s Directorate of Advancement (LASUDA). Recall also that the 7th edition of the Free Medical Outreach Mission was held at Oriwu Club, Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area, (LCDA), Ikorodu, Lagos.