JOY ANIGBOGU Ahead of the 2023 general elections, there is a growing concern over the increasing number of aspirants for the office of the President in 2023 and this stems from the fact that the unity of the country may be threatened if the situation is not properly managed. Presently 35 aspirants are vying from the two major political parties in the country, 15 of them are vying from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while 20 are aspiring on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the number is increasing as more aspirants are picking the forms on a daily basis. -Advertisement- According to observers, the major issue may not necessarily be in the number of aspirants but how to trim down the size of these aspirants to a manageable level for election purpose, going by the fact that most of them are not ready to step down for anyone. All the aspirants believe that it is the turn of his region to produce the president. Another major challenge that the parties may find very difficult to grapple with, considering the huge amount of money that aspirants paid for obtaining the Expression of interest and Nomination forms, is the issue of consensus arrangement. The APC aspirants each paid N100 million while the PDP paid N40 million, and if an aspirant has spent so much it may be very difficult for the parties to get them to buy into a consensus candidacy arrangement. Speaking on the likely challenge that the two major political parties may have, Biodun Sowunmi, a Public Affairs Analyst said that the major concern may not necessarily be the large number of aspirants that the two major parties are parading but the challenge of playing politics on geo-political leaning. “Nothing has changed in terms of seeking power to the office of the President, to attract the interest of more people willing to contest for that particular office, what has changed is the dynamics of geo-politics in Nigeria in the sense that we should not lose sight of the fact that there are very few people being touted within both parties and familiar names were being touted of some Southern governors. We have two or three within APC and also two or three within the PDP, but suddenly the moment the regional issue started digging in we had the Northern aspirants supported by the Northern governors and we had the Southern governors and we suddenly saw a surge of interest within the presidency. POLL “What is not clear is that the presidency within the APC is not giving anybody that is interested a go ahead. We have a deliberate plan to create a confusing situation to force a consensus candidate within the APC, and that is how they managed to get a national chairman of the party. When it comes to the president they have not been able to get the aspirants to agree on who to go and because of that the situation has been made complex, so that there is no particular man that can win majority of the votes, that is 50 percent of the votes in each zone, don’t forget that they divided APC into zones, and they also increased the number of delegates to five from three, so if an aspirant fails to win 50 percent of the votes, they will call for negotiation. “All the factors of restructuring will come in with a view to produce a candidate that will be acceptable to Mr. President and the ‘power that be’. People are already suspecting an agenda to present a Northern candidate, and it may not be feasible because the chairman of the party is from the North already. It is unlike the PDP situation where Senator Iyorcha Ayu agreed that if a Northerner emerges he would resign from that post. “We also face a similar situation where those who are advocating for power rotation to the South within the PDP are being sidelined, we have seen Atiku Abubakar, Bukola Saraki, Aminu Tambuwal coming out, these are the few major gladiators, and we saw Nyesom Wike challenging them, but at the end of the day we may also end up with a Northern candidate in PDP. “The suspicion is that APC feels that if the PDP produces a candidate from the North, they are likely going to do the same because politics is a game of numbers. We may see an arrangement where they are going to get all the candidates to negotiate and probably produce a candidate from the North. “We are in a precarious situation in the country and the unity of the country is being threatened. We have those who are agitating in the South-East even in the South-West. On the issue of possible implosion of the two parties as a result of the challenge of managing the issues which may most likely arise after the presidential primaries, Sowunmi said, “Most of the other political parties are sponsored by politicians in existing political parties, so it is easy for them to move their supporters from one party to another to challenge the home party’s decisions. It will happen after the presidential primaries and is already happening because we have heard people talking about the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and we have heard people moving into that party. Some people in some states have moved from APC to SDP. We have also heard of some movements within the PDP, people from All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) The problem is how to manage this crisis in a situation where citizens are faced with lower income. And there is rising cost of goods leading to lower living standards in the country. We have never been so badly divided. “Many people are worried that the way politicians are playing the game will imperil the unity of the country, further create division in the country and if it happens we may not be able to survive as a nation, considering the internal games being played within the two political parties. In the ruling APC the issue of consensus is threatening the very foundation of the party as most of the aspirants have withstood the presidency which has planned to bring former President Goodluck Jonthan into the party and make him a consensus candidate The consultation between former President Goodluck Jonathan and some leaders of the APC for him to emerge the presidential candidate has been rejected by support groups working for some presidential aspirants of the party. Groups loyal to presidential aspirants of the party, including the APC National leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; dismissed the consensus plot for the ex-President. Besides Tinubu, Osinbajo, other members of the party in the presidential race include the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello; the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; and the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi. Report has it that Jonathan had informed some APC leaders that he would only join the presidential race if he was directly endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari In the guise of ensuring that the consensus arrangement works, observers believed that the APC has craftily directed its presidential aspirants to sign Form 18 attached to the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms. Reports have it that the controversial form tagged ‘Letter of Withdrawal’ and attached to the presidential form sold to the aspirants for N100 million. According to a report the APC said that the withdrawal letter must be signed before a Commissioner of Oath/Public Notary before its submission to the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdulahi Adamu. It is reported that the letter tagged Form 18 states, reads, “I hereby voluntarily withdraw my candidacy from the contest. My withdrawal is in the best interest of our great party, the All Progressives Congress.” It was further learnt that some of the presidential aspirants are not happy with the party’s directive and are not ready to sign the controversial form, which they think is a plan to force a consensus option on them. The implication is that signing the letter means the party leaders can impose any candidate and no aspirant will have any right to challenge them in court. The issue of consensus is generating issues in the PDP as well, just recently a row broke out within the rank of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) over the endorsement of two presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as North’s consensus candidates. NEF leadership disagreed over the extent of the forum’s involvement and its outcome following the announcement of former Senate President Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed as the chosen ones by a committee chaired by NEF leader, Prof. Ango Abdullahi. The committee rated them above the Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and a former bank chief, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. But Tambuwal and Hayatu-Deen rejected the outcome, describing the Abdullahi committee as “faceless” and dismissing the outcome as “predetermined”. Speaking on the huge number of presidential aspirants, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, a chieftain of the PDP and former Delta State governorship aspirant, said the development is worrisome. Onuesoke who spoke to newsmen at Asaba International Airport, Asaba, Delta State said he is disturbed by the way all ‘Dicks and Harries’ are declaring their intentions to contest for the office of the President of Nigeria towards the coming Nigeria 2023 general election wondering if the office of the President has now become free for all. According him, “I know people will say this is democracy, the more the contestants the better for the choice of a capable candidate. I disagree with the above insinuation. The presidency of Nigeria is a serious business. Nigeria is the largest black nation in the world and definitely not every joker should be declaring for the presidency of the country. Some persons that can’t even win their ward are declaring for the presidency. How did we get to this sorry path?”. He said presently, there are a total of over 65 presidential candidates across all the political parties, stressing that majority of them have no chance in serious countries to be town mayors. “I think this is the highest number of political aspirants we have ever had in the history of the country. Every clown believes he can be president of Nigeria. The presidency of Nigeria is now a joke. At this rate, many artisans will declare for the presidency soon after all you just need a primary six certificate to be president of the country. “Majority have no chance in serious countries to be town mayors. Some will be in prison for varieties of crimes – corruption, stealing, bribery and money laundering etc. Yet if these are all Nigeria can boast of as presidential candidates, then the country is doomed,” he lamented. The PDP Chieftain advised the aspirants to start declaration from the lower levels and make considerable impact before declaring for a higher office or running for successful business. “Some of these people should start from the lower levels and make considerable impact before declaring for higher office or running a successful business,” Onuesoke advised. Onuesoke lamented the high cost of obtaining the presidential nomination forms, adding that country where some cannot afford two square meals in a day with astronomical increase in prices of commodities every minute presidential aspirants are purchasing nomination forms for millions of Naira. “Such high cost of nomination has put the office of the President in the hands of the highest bidder. That is to say that the parties have put Nigeria in the hands of money bags. Such political financial bargain will not give the poor and better qualified the opportunity to rule the masses,” he stated.