Lagos – The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) picked Jose Peseiro as Super Eagles head coach on Sunday because he was the cheapest out of all the coaches interviewed for the job. Sources also informed that other coaches that could have been hired for the national team were either not affordable or not available for the job. We learnt that Peseiro would receive $70,000 per month (over N29m) from which he would pay his two incoming personal assistants. -Advertisement- It was further learnt that the NFF is signing just a year’s deal with Peseiro with an option for another year depending on how things turn out in the initial 12 months. Among other clauses in his contract, Peseiro is expected to watch 60 per cent of domestic league games as he has been mandated to discover homegrown talents for the national team. “A number of other coaches were also contacted but it is either the salary they were asking for was too high or they were not even favourably disposed to a national team job at the moment,” we gathered. “Peseiro turned out to be the cheapest option for the NFF and that was why they settled for him.” This is the second time the NFF is announcing Peseiro as the coach for Nigeria having done the same on the eve of the Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Cameroon. POLL Then, it was announced that the Portuguese would be an observer, while Austin Eguavoen will be solely in charge of the Eagles at the continental tournament. José Vitor dos Santos Peseiro, 62, is a Portuguese who played as a striker in his days and has varied experience coaching clubs and national teams across four different continents: Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America. An educationist with a degree in physical education/sports sciences, Peseiro has top-level coaching qualifications/training and has coached at Sporting Lisbon, FC Porto, Panathinaikos, and Rapid Bucharest. He also had stints at Sporting Braga, Victoria Guimaraes, Al-Hilal, Al-Wahda, Al-Ahly Cairo, Sharjah FC, and Real Madrid, as well as serving as Head Coach of the Saudi Arabia and Venezuela national teams. Though well-travelled and with vast experience, Peseiro appears to have more sack letters than trophies but it would be out of place to out rightly conclude he will not succeed with Nigeria, From Panathinaikos to FC Porto to Braga and even Saudi Arabia, there has hardly ever been any happy ending wherever he has found himself. That said, the Portuguese has some notable moments winning silverware, with the last being the league title with Al-Ahly. He is saddled with rebuilding the Nigeria team to a formidable one and his first outing will be leading the Super Eagles for the upcoming tour of the United States of America (USA). There, Nigeria will play Mexico and Ecuador in friendlies.