DAMATURU – Aliyu Mohammed SK, a traditional title holder of Dan-Majen Gudi has picked nomination form to contest for Member House of Representatives for Fune, Fika Federal Constituency in Yobe State. Born about 43 years ago in Potiskum, Yobe State to the humble and respected family of late Alhaji Mohammed Sarkin Kasuwa and Hajiya Hadiza Mohammed is an accomplished pilot, geologist, and expert in air transport management/aviation, politician and businessman. The Dan-Majen Gudi is fortunate to be brought up by his parents with core religious and moral values of humbleness, hard work, honesty and kindness that have continued to reflect in all his dealings in life. No wonder these qualities have made him successful and outstanding early in life above many of his peers. -Advertisement- Aliyu attended the famous Shehu Garbai Primary School, Maiduguri which he completed in 1988 and proceeded to Senior Science Secondary School Potiskum where he obtained his Senior Secondary School Certificate in 1995. In pursuance of his education, he bagged a BSc Degree (Hons) in Geology from the University of Maiduguri (2000). As a daring young person with an insatiable quest for fulfilling his childhood dreams of becoming a pilot, he proceeded to Bristow Academy-Titusville Florida in the USA, one of the best Pilot Training Schools in the world, where he trained as a pilot in 2006. He further went to the City University London, in the United Kingdom where he acquired MSc in Air Transport Management (2015). The Dan Majen Gudi began his public service career in 2003, as a Senior Scientific Officer at the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) after completing his National Youth Service at the Water Board of the Federal Capital Territory in 2002. As a Pilot, he worked at Bristow Helicopters as a trainee Pilot/ Pilot from 2006- 2008. Young Aliyu’s vision for self-reliance and advancement in life made him quit the public service after a short stay to venture into to private business. This saw him becoming the Director Hajj and Umrah Operations at Yakasai Travels and Tours from 2008-2011. He was also a Director Dredging and Environmental Impact Assessment of Sams Maritime Services Ltd 2010-2011. POLL The politician then founded Borewell Drilling Nigeria Ltd where he has been serving as its MD/ CEO since 2011. He is also Director of Operations and in charge of private jets/aircraft’s maintenance/ lease financing and acquisition of aircraft at Songhai Aviation Nig Ltd since 2015. He also founded Black Gate Security Co Ltd a Private Security Firm dealing with Logistics Specialists/ Security Equipment and Services as its MD/ CEO in 2017. Dan Maje is also the Chairman / CEO of Black Gate Guvenilik Iharacat Limited a Company based in the Mediterranean city of Mersin in Turkey that specialized in exports and imports of aircraft spare parts, maintenance, acquisition and security equipment. The magnificent experience of Dan-Majen Gudi at a young age that has traversed various fields of human endeavour earned him membership in various professional bodies. These include membership in the Nigerian Mining and Geophysics Society (NMGS), Nigerian Hydro-Geological Society (NHS), National Association of Petroleum Exploration (NAPE) and Nigerian Association of Pilot and Engineers (NAPE). The reputation of Dan Majen Gudi as an Aviator of great reckoning and his splendid experience in air transport management/aviation bestowed upon him the membership of the Nigerian Delegations to Farnborough Air Show, United Kingdom in 2012, 2014,2016 and 2018 as well as Dubai Airshow in 2015, 2017, 2019 and 2021. His recognition as an outstanding Aviator also earned him the position of a Lead Consultant of Boeing 737 full flight, Simulator Project for the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology, Zaria (NCAT) the first of its kind in sub-Saharan Africa, Nigerian representative to Canadian Aviation Electronics Ltd (CAE) Canada (the largest civil and military simulator manufacturers in the world) and global certified expert in aviation logistics. Dan Majen Gudi’s political life started while he was a student at the University of Maiduguri where he served as a Senator representing the Geology Department at the Students’ Representative Assembly (SRA) between 1998 and 1999. He was also President of the Nigerian Association of Geosciences and Mining Students (NAGAMS), University of Maiduguri Chapter 1999-2000. His interest in politics made him a card-carrying member at the formation of the defunct All Peoples’ Party (APP) which later became the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP). Upon the emergence of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Dan Majen Gudi became its card-carrying member and active participant in the activities of the party’s youth organisations. He was also a Senior Legislative Aide in the seventh National Assembly dispensation. Recently, he was appointed by His Excellency, Hon. Mai Mala Buni, the Governor of Yobe State to serve as a member of the Sub-Committee on Transportation and Logistics at the last concluded National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held in Abuja. Aliyu has widely travelled to all continents of the world covering about 50 countries as a pilot, businessman and member of federal government delegations on aviation-related assignments which has exposed him to global best practices in the management of various aspects of life. Aliyu Mohammed SK, the Dan-Majen Gudi fluently speaks English, Hausa and many local languages of his community. The amiable personality and exposure of Dan Majen Gudi in the air industry, other ventures and politics brought him closer to eminent personalities both within and outside the country. His extreme generosity and philanthropic gestures of unimaginable dimension also earned him respect among all circles of people. His love and passion for the development of his community which is legendary led to his conferment with one of the most revered titles of Dan Maje, conferred only on eminent sons of his Emirate of Gudi. Aliyu is a person who has rare patience in listening to anybody that comes across him and this has brought him love and extreme respect from whoever he associates with. It’s therefore, in recognition of their rare attributes, wide experience, philanthropy and passion for the progress and development of his community a clarion call was made on him by his people to aspire to represent them in the political arena. There is no doubt the people of his Constituency will find in him a worthy political representative who will fulfil their yearnings and aspirations. He will formally declare on Sunday according to his campaign organization coordinator.