 LAGOS – Following the incessant cases of collapsed buildings across the country, with losses of precious lives, the Ogun State Office of Standard Organisation of Ni­geria (SON), has firmed up its operations by engaging block molders in the state to improve the quality of blocks in the area. Engr. Jerome Otene, the state SON Coordinator in charge of Sango-Ota, met with the execu­tive of the National Association of Block Molders of Nigeria (NABMON), in his office at Ota to sensitise them on the need to improve the quality of blocks molded by the members to stem the rising cases of collapsed building in major cities across the country. -Advertisement- Engr. Otene said, “Some may argue that collapsing of build­ings is not peculiar to our coun­try, but it is a known fact that most of the collapses here are avoidable if the right things are done and standards adhered to by all those involved in building projects. “We know that blocks are the highest material used in building, so it has become per­tinent for us to engage you on the need to follow prescribed specification in the molding of building blocks. “Besides the fact that many of those involved in the business of molding blocks are illiterates, they are averse to regulations and compliance to regulations that are critical to standardisa­tion.” While sharing his experience in monitoring and enforcing standards among block mold­ers, Otene complained about the evasive nature of some of them who abscond from their prem­ises whenever they get wind of the likely visit of SON officials to their premises. Otene explained that the strategy of engaging the asso­ciation was borne out of the need to have a wider reach of the block molders operating under his jurisdiction. POLL He added, “We observe that most of them are only interested in making money without ad­herence to laid standards, tests, verifications and approvals. The ones producing less qual­ity blocks can afford to sell at a lower price to kick out those producing standard blocks. “You know when you are producing a standard block, you will also charge standard price, but you can afford to sell poorly when the quality is poor. “Apart from our factory in­spection, we meet with them at meetings to explain the standards required to produce blocks, the machines to be de­ployed, and the kinds of people you are supposed to engage for production.” He stressed that SON is an or­ganisation that keeps standards for products as well as blocks. “After enlightenment like this we go out for enforcement without announcement, while the factory inspection is an­nounced. During inspections we take time to train them on basic requirements and stipu­lated standards.”