AWKA – Two groups, ‘Concerned Umu Idemili’ and ‘2023 Gate Keepers’, have thrown their weights be­hind Hon. Obinna Chido­ka, a member represent­ing Idemili North/South Federal Constituency in the House of Represen­tatives, to return to the green chamber. The two groups had also argued that Chidoka was not affected by the zoning arrangement in the area as the Idemili North Council area was yet to finish its tenure in the House. In their statements signed by Ifeanyi Nwanze and Mike Tobenna Okeke for both groups and made available to journalists, they dismissed the insin­uations in some quarters that it was the turn of Idemili South to produce the next candidate for the federal constituency, say­ing it was still the turn of Idemili North going by how the seat had been rotating between Idemili North and Idemili South. -Advertisement- According to their re­cords, the federal seat had been rotating through Idemili North and South since 1999 and that Idemi­li South had occupied it for 14 years through Hon. Jerry Ugokwe and Hon. Charles Odedo, while Ide­mili North had occupied it for 10 years through Obin­na Chidoka, Dr. Christian Okeke and Ifeanyi Ibezi respectively. For that reason they argued that it was still the turn of Idemili North to produce a candidate in 2023. They further explained that they were backing Chidoka to return to the House because they were comfortable with the quali­ty of representation he had offered to the good people of Idemili North/South at Abuja and thus, “it’s not good to change a winning ranking member who is doing wonderfully well in all rounds.” The groups wrote: “Let us inform you that he is do­ing well in all facets of rep­resentation such as being consistently active in the affairs of the House both on the floor and in oversight functions. “More interesting is that he is attracting dividends of democracy to the con­stituents in the area of empowerment of youths and women with jobs and working materials such as tricycles popularly known as Keke, sewing machines, hairdressing kits and other things including attracting road projects.”