LAGOS  – For Nigeria to be on track in meeting the 2014 Malabo Declaration Commitments, it is hope that the three tiers of government would commit 10 percent of their annual budget to the agriculture sector required to support at least six percent growth rate for the sector as postulated in the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP) framework. Ene Obi, Country Director, ActionAid made this known while speaking at the National Dialogue and Dissemination on Nigeria’s Performance at the 3rd Biennial Review Exercise on the Implementation of the CAADP in Abuja. Obi while speaking on a data obtained from a study conducted through the Value Addition Biennial Review Toolkit (VABKIT), said investments should focus on strategic areas of extension services, access to credit, women in agriculture, youth in agriculture, appropriate labour-saving technologies, inputs, post-harvest losses reduction supports (processing facilities, storage facilities, trainings, market access), climate resilient sustainable agriculture (CRSA)/agroecology, research and development, monitoring and evaluation, as well as coordination. -Advertisement- “The data/information we collected through the VABKIT that reflected the lived realities of smallholder women farmers across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), shows that nationwide, smallholder women farmers currently have only 18% access to processing facilities, 16.60% access to storage facilities, 13.50% access to off-takers/access to markets, 9.60% access to transportation for agricultural produce, and 42.30% access to trainings. “On Extension Services, smallholder women farmers have access to only 5.26% farm demonstrations and 19.47% farmers field schools. “On agricultural credit, they have access to less than 23% of existing credit facilities, and only 4.77% access to agricultural insurance. On access to and control over land, about 59% of them have access to land, 29.77% have control, while only 11.23% are engaged in land governance discussions. “While government is making efforts to improve the space for more Public Private Partnerships arrangements in Nigeria’s agriculture sector, smallholder women farmers’ access to such schemes across the country remains below 27%. “We have been using the above data/information that reflects the lived realities of smallholder women farmers in our various policy influencing spaces where we are pushing the gaps as priority areas of where Scaling Up Public Investment in Agriculture is urgently needed in agriculture budgets and programmes both at the national and state levels” POLL She, however ,said AAN organised the dialogue in collaboration with Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) to disseminate the report of Nigeria’s performance in the 3rd Biennial Review Process to stakeholders while having conversations around the successes as well as challenges encountered with the 3rd Biennial Review processes to better prepare and improve the process of the 4th Biennial Review cycle. Dr. Ernest Umakhihe, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development while speaking said that as a member-state, Nigeria began to implement the African Union Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (AU CAADP) in 2003, with the aim of accelerating Africa Agricultural Growth and Transformation in the continent. “In specific, AU Member-States are to achieve the commitments to ensuring inclusiveness, transparency and accountability in agricultural development process, enhancing agriculture investment financing to end hunger and halve poverty in Africa by 2025, boosting Intra-African Trade in Agricultural commodities and services, and strengthening the resilience of livelihoods and production systems to climate change risks as well as ensuring mutual accountability to actions and results. He said the introduction of biennial review (BR) exercise as a tool for regular tracking on the progress for implementation of CAADP amongst member-states by the African Union Commission is commendable for achieving the desired results. “Nigeria actively participated at the inaugural biennial review exercise in 2017, the second biennial review in 2019 and the third BR in 2021. “The PS stated that the progressive performance of Nigeria’s Agriculture sector at the last three cycles of the BR is encouraging, as it reflects the present Administration’s commitment and investment in diversifying the nation’s economy from oil-based economy to agriculture and solid mineral – driven economy. “This is justified by an appreciable steady 25% level of the Agriculture sector’s contribution to the nation’s GDP in the last few years, in spite of the prevailing challenges of security, climate change and COVID-19 to the development of the economy. “In repositioning the sector and enabling agribusiness undertakings in the country, the Ministry priority deliverables sector are rural infrastructure provision, intensification of research and innovation, land management, technology application, extension service delivery, agricultural financing, value chain development, youth empowerment, food reserve and food quality.