Ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general elections, Abideen Adetokinbo Adeaga has emerged as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate winning the party ticket for the Lagelu/Akinyele Federal Constituency. Adeaga defeated his close rival, Kunle Yusuf who was the immediate past Senior Special Assistant on Sustainable Development Goals to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state at the party primary held in Ibadan on Monday. Lagelu/Akinyele PDP Primary election results read to delegates and party members indicated that Adeaga who hails from Lagelu polled 38 votes to defeat Yusuf of Akinyele, who was able to muscle 27 votes emerged the winner after the primary election in Ibadan on Monday 23 (today). -Advertisement- The details of the result polled by each aspirant showed that Abideen ADEAGA polled 38, while Kunle YUSUF-27, Tiamy-8, Rad-4, Segelu-0, Dr Rauf-4, Aponmode-0. INDEPENDENT understands that Lagelu has 14 wards while Akinyele local government has 12 wards. According to some of the leaders from Lagelu, Local Government that spoke with newsmen described Adeaga as the man of the masses who the party has affirmed as its flag-bearer ahead of the 2023 general election. Adeaga, while speaking with journalists shortly after the primary exercise expressed his appreciation to Governor Makinde and the leadership of the party in the state. The PDP candidate, who will fly the party ticket at the 2023 general election said Governor Makinde has made the party the beautiful bride in Oyo state assuring that he will reach out to his co aspirants with a view to forming a united front going into the election proper. POLL “There’s no winner or loser in this contest, we all know that when people race one person must pick up the winning price but in actual sense, all aspirants in this contest are winners because in the end, we all belong to one big political family as brothers and sisters. “My sincere appreciation also goes to everyone who made this day a reality in our collective history. I don’t want to mention names one by one at this point but my assurance is that I will not disappoint you. Adeaga said. Acknowledging the task that lies ahead with regards to preparation for the real election, Adeaga urged party members in Akinyele/Lagelu federal constituency to as a matter of obligation to the party commence the process of genuine reconciliation to bring everyone on the same page. He, however, expressed his gratitude to PDP delegates for what he described as “getting the job done”. He also thanked his supporters in the federal constituency as well as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the peaceful, free and fair conduct of the primary.