Due to the Monday sit-at-home order enforced by the proscribed Indigenous People Biafra (IPOB), the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) could not hold its primaries slated for May 23rd in the South-East region of the country. This had, however, made the party in the region announced the postponement of its primary elections in the geo-political zone. Although severally the Media and Publicity of the pro-Biafran group, Emma Powerful, had claimed that the sit-at-home order had been long suspended, some gunmen have continued to terrorise and kill residents who fail to observe it. -Advertisement- Announcing the postponement of the primaries, Abia State PDP on Monday said that the senatorial primaries held in the state are inconclusive both the House of Representatives and state House of Assembly primary elections citing insecurity. A statement by the state Vice Chairman, Elder Amah Abraham, said the party postponed the election by 24 hours due to “The current security situation in the South East.” The party informed the general public, stakeholders, delegates and members of the party that the senatorial primary elections would hold in the three senatorial zones by noon. Abraham said the inconclusive elections into the five federal constituencies and the three state constituencies would also hold today at the approved locations only. Correspondingly, the Anambra State PDP has not been able to hold its primaries because of a crisis over the delegates’ congress. POLL The delegate election earlier fixed for April 30 was later shifted to May 1 by the Jibrin Ahmed-led panel. However, the election failed to hold on the rescheduled date when it was discovered that the panel members came to hold the election without the original result sheet. The three-man ad hoc delegate election ought to have been held yesterday to enable the party to conduct its primaries today but failed to hold because of the sit-at-home being observed in the state on Mondays. However, the party will now hold the delegates’ congress today in preparation for the primaries within the week. In Imo State, the situation remains the same where the sit-at-home order forced the party not to conduct the primaries. The entire streets of Owerri and its environs were completely deserted as residents stayed at home to observe the order. Shops, schools and commercial centres were completely closed as candidates for the West African School Certificate Examination had to stay over in their schools to enable them to sit for the exam. Meanwhile, the suspended primary for the opposition PDP is expected to hold today. The Three-man ad hoc delegates Congress would hold today ahead of the primaries fixed for Wednesday.