A gubernatorial aspirant in Bauchi State, Musa Babayo has given reasons why he wants to contest for the governorship position in the 2023 general elections, saying that he wants to give back to the state what it has invested in him, particularly in the sponsoring of his primary, secondary and Tertiary education. Babayo, who spoke when he led members of his campaign team to the Bauchi Secretariat to declare his interest in the governorship race, explained that his educational pursuit was shouldered by the Bauchi state government, adding that it was only during his master’s degree that he enjoyed foreign scholarship He recalled that he had his early education in Azare, Katagum local government before he proceeded to BACAS in Bauchi and subsequently Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria where he bagged a degree in Business Administration. The Gubernatorial Aspirant who also has a career in Banking said he was once appointed the chairman of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TetFund) in 2008 were brought several reforms and development in the education sector of the country. He commended the Bauchi emirate for giving Katagum emirate the opportunity of producing the first Executive Governor of the state in 1979 in the person of late Abubakar Tatari Ali, adding that it has fostered the good relationship between the two emirates. Babayo who holds the traditional title of Talban Katagum urged the APC Executives in the state, to urge the executives of the party to exhibit justice and fairness in the conduct of all party activities. “I have the confidence in the leadership of the party in the state to conduct the affairs of the party in such a way that every member will have a sense of belonging and benefit. So, I am calling on the executives to serve the interest of the party, If you fail, only Allah will judge you. “I urge you to give a level playing ground to all the aspirants vying for elective offices in the state,” he said POLL In his response, the State chairman of the party, Alhaji Babayo Aliyu Misau assured that APC in-state will ensure justice, fairness and equity to all members of the party, irrespective of religion and ethnic differences. He solicited the cooperation of party members, especially aspirants vying for various elective positions, stressing that they should embrace the spirit of sportsmanship as only one Aspirant will definitely win the governorship position. Misau assured that the party will not fail in carrying out its responsibilities, saying that it will give a listening ear to every counsel, demand and wishes of all the stakeholders of the party in the state and country at large. The highlight of the event included the presentation of a newly constructed office of the secretariat to facilitate the smooth conduct of administrative activities.