SAMUEL OGIDAN, CHIBUZOR EMEJOR, BOLU-OLU ESHO ABUJA, AKURE – There were shots of accusations against Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Godwin Emefiele, on Saturday over his presidential ambition for which he has collected nomination forms. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) called for the arrest and prosecution of the governor for alleged abuse of office and financial impropri­ety. -Advertisement- The call came on the heels of the report that some groups bought Emefiele the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential expres­sion of interest and nomina­tion forms to contest the 2023 election. The party said it was an af­terthought for the CBN gover­nor to deny having interest in contesting the 2023 election. Addressing newsmen on Saturday in Abuja, the PDP spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologu­nagba said: “Our party stands with Nigerians in demanding the immediate arrest, investi­gation and prosecution of Mr. Emefiele by security and an­ti-graft agencies, particularly the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for alleged financial malfea­sance and abuse of office in the CBN under his watch. “As Nigerians we are deter­mined to confront this evil. We wish Mr. Emefiele well in his newfound but ill-fated politi­cal vocation but we demand that he must be brought to account for the activities that he undertook, supervised and superintended over the years that he has been at the helm of affairs at the CBN and for which our economy is in co­matose.” The PDP called on all Ni­gerians; the Civil Society, Stu­dents, Organized Labour, the Media and all lovers of good governance to rise up as the party takes drastic actions in leading the charge to defend the integrity of the CBN, Rule of Law and ensure that those who brought the economy to its knees face the wrath of the law. POLL The party said that Eme­fiele’s involvement in politics without resigning as CBN governor amounted to gross misconduct in contravention of Section 11 2 (2)(c) of the CBN Act. “Now that Mr. Emefiele has joined politics and reported­ly obtained the N100 million presidential aspirant form from the APC, he cannot con­tinue to resume at the CBN which is the commonwealth of our nation,” the party said. The PDP warned that his continued as CBN Governor is a danger to the reputation of the CBN, adding that it would destroy investor’s con­fidence. “By this, Mr. Emefiele has become a clear and present danger to the health, integri­ty and reputation of the CBN and our nation’s financial sector. His continued stay as CBN Governor will further destroy investors’ confidence in the integrity of our nation’s financial regulatory Institu­tion. “Mr. Emefiele’s involve­ment in partisan politics while still holding office as CBN Governor underpins the impunity, lawlessness and recklessness of the Muham­madu Buhari-led APC admin­istration. It further confirms that the CBN under Emefiele has all along been the finance department of the APC,” it added. Also, Governor Olu­warotimi Akeredolu has called for the resignation of Mr. Godwin Emefiele as the Governor the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) immediately. He stated that the CBN governor should resign im­mediately having obtained on Friday theN100m presidential nomination form of All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) so that he could face his ambi­tion squarely. The maverick governor of Ondo State declared that Eme­fiele could not combine the running of the nation’s apex bank, which he described as a sensitive responsibility, with his political ambition. Akeredolu,a senior advo­cate of Nigeria, posited that though “it’s incontrovertible that Emefiele enjoys a consti­tutionally protected right to belong to any group or asso­ciation and participate fully, just as any Nigerian, it is, however, difficult to imagine that a person who occupies the exalted and sensitive of­fice of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria will be this brazen in actualizing his ambition.” Meanwhile, over 5,000 Civ­il Society Organi­sat ions u n d e r the aus­pices of Coalition of Civil Society Groups (CCSG), on Sat­u r d ay, t h r e w t h e i r weight be­hind Emefiele. President of CCSG, Etuk Bassey Williams, and Secre­tary General, Abubakar Ibra­him and several civil society organisations, who stated this at a media briefing in Abuja, warned the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu and oth­er politicians to desist from attacking Emefiele. Williams explained that the Coalition is giving their support for Emefiele’s presi­dency, because of his unpar­alleled achievements based on his professionalism and patriotism, adding that Eme­fiele brought to bear in man­aging various sectors of the economy on a solid sustain­able path that has keep the nation afloat since he was appointed Governor of the CBN. The coalition pointed out that Emefiele can vie for any political position in Nigeria like any other Nigerian based on his Constitutional rights. They also cautioned some politicians who have ganged up against Emefiele to malign and run him down, adding that the groups sponsored by the intimidated politicians should immediately desist from their cheap blackmail and call for his resignation. Similarly, the Arewa Con­sultative Youth Movement (ACYM) has said that they are convinced that the Eme­fiele holds the key to expan­sion and consolidation of the nation’s economy. Celebrating and jubi­lating over the decision of three different groups to purchase the Expression of Interest and Nomination Form of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Eme­fiele, The Arewa group said that the CBN Governor is the only responsible and re­sponsive person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari at the 2023 general election. Recall that the groups, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, Friends of Eme­fiele and Emefiele Support Group, had on Friday bought the form for Emefiele after contributing and paying the N100 million.