A solution-based initiative is as old as its impact, and certainly not by the number of years it has been around. GetFitNg Technology Limited, founded by resourceful and elegant Adekemi Oladipo, is changing the dynamics of lifestyle in Nigeria, giving hope again to people who live their everyday lives carrying about unpleasant protruding bellies. The vision of the founder of Getfitng is the real game changer in the face of other failed solutions who made entrant into the market in the country with promises only God could fulfill. GetFitNg’s impact make it seems it has been around for ages, with the company just about four years old. The testimonies from beneficiaries who have got their grooves back, as well as celebrities recommending the products to their fans have been swift and revolutionary. -Advertisement- Oladipo’s company recently introduced the first of its kind Getfit Apple Cider Gummies in Africa, which helps erase the damaging effects of bad eating habit among Nigerians which eventually lead to obesity–a disease commonly found with millions of citizens as sufferers. Speaking on the range of tailor-made products aimed at promoting healthy lifestyle, the CEO of Getfitng said:,  “Getfit Apple cider gummies are made up of 10 per cent acetic acid with the mother and it is 1000mg, Getfitng gummies are very effective at reducing belly bloats, excess appetite, improves metabolism, assists in clearer skin, weight loss and so much more”. Speaking further, the founder of Getfitng said,, “Did I mention Getfitng is the first Apple cider gummies in West Africa? And our sweat sticks were inspired to help improve sweat production during any form of physical activities to help reduce water weight quickly We are all happier when we see our belly fat cry sweat during exercise. “Getfit 3.0 waist trainer products are upgraded versions, with improved thermogenesis. Technology keeps evolving and at Getfitng, we are very keen on providing the best waist trainers that are very effective at reducing the belly fat. The minute a new tested technology emerges, we hope on it to ensure our customers get quicker results and improve their self esteem”, added the owner ofGetfitng. Also, the humanitarian efforts by Oladipo and her team at GetFitNg Technology Limited have been ground breaking, cutting across donations to orphanages, the Nigeria Police Force, educational interventions for the less privileged, as well as women empowerment.