WARRI  – Concerned Deltans for Good Governance Network (CDGGN), a registered grass-root NGO in Delta State, has endorsed Hon. Lucky Idike and Dcn. Chris Iyovwaye as aspirants that are qualified to run for the upcoming 2023 gu­bernatorial election in Delta State. At a well-attended emer­gency meeting held at the res­idence of High Chief Wellston Bobo, the group screened all the cleared aspirants for the PDP gubernatorial primary that is scheduled to come up on Wednesday, May 25 2022. The criteria or parameter for the election are that the next Governor of Delta State must not be a recycled politician or old brigade; that the next gover­nor must be from Delta Central in line with the spirit and letter of rotational policy adopted by the PDP in Delta State across the three Senatorial Districts; that the next governor of Delta State must not be hijacked by any money bag who has be­come professional politician, among others. -Advertisement- It was gathered that the Concerned Deltans Good Gov­ernance Network is a promis­ing force to be reckoned with, in the next gubernatorial elec­tion in Delta State as the group represents the true voice of the masses of Delta State. Olorogun Francis Vevakpor, the National Coordinator of the group reiterated that the goal of getting a new and a real lead­er as governor of Delta State, who can change the narratives of Deltans irrespective of their party affiliation is unstoppable. Olorogun Vevakpor assert­ed that old politicians and mon­ey bags were things of the past in Delta State which must be swept under the carpet in the interest of the people. He added, “Hon. Lucky Ohworode Idike is a new pol­itician without any record of stealing or embezzlement of public funds, adding that the most painful aspect of the problem is that when our peo­ple are given the opportunity to serve as Governors, Senators, Commissioner, House of Rep. Members, or State House of Assembly member, instead of satisfying the people who gave them the mandate, they embezzle the funds, keep it in the private vaults, waiting to buy delegates to scale through their primary election hurdles, a practice that have maintained the cycle of poor leadership and poverty in the state.” . The Good Governance Advocate stressed that any delegate who collected money from any of the aspirants has already sold his future and the future of his children.