The recent Killing of Okechuk­wu Okoye, lawmaker repre­sentingAguataIIConstituency in Anambra State, by gunmen is not just one more incident in the hor­rendous chain of bloody incidents be­ing recorded in the South-East but also a major signpost of a fast approaching dusk in the region and beyond. Okoye’s head was dumped at Chisco Park in Amichi, Nnewi South Local Government Area, on Saturday, six days after he was ab­ducted. A note was also reportedly foundbesidetheseveredhead. Inthe note, the killers warned that more heads would roll. “Everywhere you go, you cannot hide anywhere. We will go after you one by one because soldiers and police is (sic) no longer our problem,” the gunmen were said to have written, thus notify­ing everyone concerned what they should expect in the days ahead. At this point, it is clear that they are being gradually stimulated by the successes they believe they have so far achieved. So, like the North-East, the South-East is pro­gressively being lost! An enormous disaster is already happening right before the eyes of all. -Advertisement- A significant point made by the Commissioner of Police in the state, Echeng Echeng, is that the so-called unknown gunmen are actually known by the people and the police. The police know them because they have fought with them and arrested some, and they have turned out to be men who live among the people, contrary to claims that they live in the forest. According to the commissioner, they only have their shrines in the forest. His greatest desire, it would seem, is to demystify the gunmen so that people can feel free to volun­teer information about them – a vi­tal aspect of any war against crime. Echeng’s words: “There is noth­ing unknown about the gunmen terrorizing Anambra State to war­rant calling them ‘unknown gun­men’. “We have been saying that unknown gunmen is not the right name for these criminals. We are trying to mystify something that is not just there. “It is time we go into demystifying them. These people are not spirits, they live with us, they are our nephews, our cousins, our brothers, and they live in com­munities. We know who they are. “The problem of security is that of total silence as nobody sees something, nobody hears some­thing, andnobodysayssomething.” So much for the miraculous la­bel since no one probably knows how the expression, ‘unknown gunmen’, came to gain such lively currency in daily reports about the killings in the South-East. But now the word is out: the dead­ly situation is growing putrescent because people are afraid to give information about the killers even though they operate openly and live among them. At least, this is one very simplistic way to look at it. POLL Another way to look at it is to consider the claim of the Indig­enous People of Biafra (IPOB) which insists that the culprits are actually Fulani herdsmen and members of security organi­sations and the military who kill innocent people and pin it on the Eastern Security Network (ESN) just to give a dog a bad name in or­der to hang it. So, would security men and the military actually go that far? Maybe sometimes, but not with the same frequency as has been reported. What about Fulani herdsmen? Well, that can’t be ruled out. They are everywhere and have demon­strated an uncanny capacity for bloodletting. So, yes, they could be doing their own bit in this wide variations of tragic possibilities. But let’s consider the kidnap­ping and gruesome beheading of Okechukwu Okoye. He was abducted alongside his campaign director, Cyril Chiegboka, on May 15, and then his headless body was found on May 22, followed by the discovery of his severed head. The operation suggests targeted killing. Okoye was well known to his abductors who clearly had an axe to grind with him. This is not the reckless killing typical of herdsmen or uniformed men. Are there then other possibili­ties? Yes. Recall that IPOB has also claimed that most of the killings are politically motivated? Here then is a strong possibility of polit­ical actors using thugs or gunmen to hound and take out opponents. Why this is a strong possibility, it must be observed that politics has been taking place in the South-East forthelast23 yearsorso. Whatmust have brought it to this bloody path suddenly? It’s unexplainable. This would not likely be the cause of the bloodletting in the South-East. The several instances of reck­less killing across the region, not just in Anambra State, suggest the sworn determination of an­archists bent on creating panic in the South-East and plunging it into chaos for easy plunder. Any of the forces presently operating in that place – ranging from terror­ists, security agencies, or troops – are capable of these horrendous crimes. But at the very heart of the present crisis is the long campaign by the region against marginalization which were inap­propriately crushed and became a rallying cry for genuine agitators as well as malcontents. Those who thrive most in disorder may since have hijacked the situation and it would now appear that the region has turned against itself – a social self-destruct. The more the killings and their gruesomeness, the great­er the fear created, and eventually this would spread dangerously into the nervous system of the people and they would permanently be on panic-mode. When it reaches that stage, no one would dare speak for fear the walls of their room will pass the message across to the gunmen. Those who doubt this possibility should try find out the impact of a recent viral video in which some men were shot dead while drinking at a bar because they were overheard discussing the atrocious activities of the ‘un­known gunmen’ not knowing that they were sitting right on the same table with the people they were talking about. Whether that so­cial media report was true or not, such messages have been spread amongst the people who now be­lieve in the invincibility of the ‘unkown gunmen’. Thus, expect­ing such panic-stricken people to volunteer information would be asking for too much. So, even if – as the police commissioner said – the unknown gunmen live among the people, they exude enough threat to control information flow about or against them. Now, this is a very terrifying condition. A permanent spectre hangs over the people. Now, the circumstances are attracting ancillary craters as non-indigenes are being affected by the killings, creating the potential for inter-regional or inter-ethnic misgivings. Witness the reactions that have broken out since the sac­rilegious killing of Harira Jubril (a pregnant woman) and her four children – Fatima, Aisha, Hadi­za, and Zaituna (from Adamawa State). The incident happened in the Orumba Local Government Area of Anambra State on Sunday. No one can predict the outcome of the dangerous development in the South-East as it assumes more scary and expansive dimensions. Therefore, it’s time South-Eastern leaders move out boldly to rein in the growing terror that is now claiming the lives of people and might soon begin to claim whole communities. Instances of this have already occurred but not in the same degree as farming com­munities in the North, especially North-East, where people and their homes are being daily incinerat­ed. There is a growing feeling in some quarters that the elders in the South-East are afraid to speak out against the excesses being perpe­trated by their youths, despite the several condemnations they have issued. In truth, some more dras­tic actions need to be taken before the South-East becomes another North-East, a status it appears to be attaining mindlessly. South-East leaders have come to believe that the moment Nnamdi Kanu is released the crisis in the South-East would cease but – of course – it has now gone beyond Nnamdi Kanu. I am sure they know this. As for the agitation against marginalisation, that is a journey that promises to endure for a while – I mean, the people of the South-East would possibly not believe that the situation can be addressed in one fell swoop. It didn’t begin yesterday. It’s been on for all the decades since the end of the civil war. While the South- East collectively work at strategies to ensure balance of privileges in the running of Nigeria, they have an urgent task in hand: the destruc­tion of the growing monster called ‘unknown gunmen’. The people of that industrious region have been on the move despite all the obstacles that have been created to hold them down, and there is no doubt they would continue to move as determinedly as their dreams pull them but, I am afraid, they might just be leaving too much to chance if they don’t deal with the present threat. Time, time is running out. And Party Primaries Became Bazaar These last week has produced more millionaires in the country than ever as delegates raked in mil­lions from participating in party primaries across the country. Bil­lions are being released for the pros­ecution of political wars as those who already have are struggling for elective offices that would enable them have more – more than their grandchildren would ever need. And so, it came to pass that Ka­duna State provided the specific case of what is happening across the country. According to reports, after securing just two votes at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primaries in Kaduna North Fed­eral Constituency of the House of Representatives, Adam Namadi, son of former Vice-President, Na­madi Sambo, has reportedly asked delegates to refund the N2 million each he doledout before the election. Namadi, who had promised to add N1.5 million to the amount given to each of the delegates, se­cured the least votes among the three contenders. The delegates raked in millions of naira from the aspirants who appeared in a hurry to outspend one another. At the end, Samaila Suleiman, the incumbent representative of the constituency, carried the day, defeating Namadi and Shehu Us­man ABG. Suleiman, whorecently decamped from the ruling All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) to the PDP, won with 22 votes against She­huUsmanABGwhopolled14votes. Those who revealed what hap­pened said Suleiman had distrib­uted between N3.5m and N4m to each delegate while ABG gave out N2.5m in cash, and Namadi distrib­uted N2m to each delegate. Please calculate how much was spent on 38 delegates if the three spent spent at least N8million. Sambo, even after spending at least N76million, could not get the ticket. So, disappointed, he reasonably de­manded for a refund, and when re­porters carried the news, he issued a statement to explain that it was the party’s position that aspirants who lost should be given a refund of their money by the delegates. Here, then, political parties were presiding over vote-buying, if the former vice president’s son told us the truth. We are, indeed, teaching the world how to practise democracy.