KATSINA – The National Insurance Commission, NAICOM, has been urged to embark on rigorous sensitization exercise to enable it actualize the desire for the core north to embrace the Islamic form of insurance programme. Governor Aminu Bello Masari gave the charge when he received the commission’s management team led by the Chief Executive Officer and Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Olorundare Sunday Thomas in Katsina on Friday. Masari who noted that, the commission has much work to do the enlightenment of the people on the benefits of the scheme, said the informal sector been the drivers of the economy must be properly sensitized to achieve the commission’s goals in the state. -Advertisement- He added that, for the TAKAF, the Islamic form of Insurance to gain ground, the religious leaders and other security agencies must be involved to ensure that the people understand the scheme to enable them reap it’s benefits and succeed. “If you embark on the sensitization and enlightenment exercise through the religious leaders and others, the programme will receive acceptance amongst the people”. He however said owing to the benefits of the programme, government would make provision in its annual budget estimates to cater for ensuring that it’s vehicles, buildings and others are insured. “Involve the Internal Revenue Board, the Police, Road Safety, the Civil Defense, amongst other to make sure that the programme succeed in the state”, he advised. Mr. Olorundare Sunday Thomas, the Chief Executive Officer of the commission, earlier told the Governor that, they were in Katsina to partner with the state government on the TAKAF, Islamic form of insurance for the poor in the state to reap it’s benefits. POLL He said the desire of the commission is to spread it’s dragnet to the state for the farmers and other small and medium scale businesses to reap the benefits. “We are committed to the sensitization and enlightenment programme on the numerous benefits of the scheme to enable the poor citizens reap it’s benefits”, he concluded.