The government of Oyo State on Sunday, read the Riot Act to members of the Park Management System (PMS) in the state. The State’s Commissioner for Public works, Infrastructure and Transportation, Prof. Dahud Sangodoyin, who released the Standard Operating Procedure for PMS at a press briefing in Ibadan, said that the state was concerned about unhealthy rivalry in the Transport sector as well as some reported reckless behaviour of persons linked to the body. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the Commissioner made the position public during a press conference also attended by the State’s Commissioner of Police, Mrs Ngozi Onadeko, at the Oba Akinbiyi Grammar School, Mokola, Ibadan. -Advertisement- The statement quoted the Commissioner as saying that the guidelines released by the state at the event must be strictly adhered to by the Park managers in their day-to-day operation. The Standard Operating Procedure as released by the Ministry indicates that no member of the PMS has the right to take Laws into his hands, adding that the body must follow the Criminal Code Laws of Nigeria and the Laws of Oyo State as well as operational codes of the Oyo State Road Transport Management Agency (OYRTMA). The guidelines also state that all members of the PMS must wear a human face while discharging their duties and be civil to members of the public while working collaboratively with security organs of the body. It also states that no member of the PMS must drive recklessly and negligently whether on duty or otherwise. No member of PMS is allowed to drink any form of liquor or intoxicant substances while on duty. POLL Members are also not allowed to take Cigarettes or any unauthorized drugs while on duty. The guidelines also prohibit members of the PMS from consuming any form of prohibited hard drugs such as Cocaine, Cannabis, Refnol, Heroin, Codeine, Opioids, tobacco Indian hemp, and Tramadol among others. The guidelines further provide that no member of PMS must hold canes, sticks or rods while on duty, just as they are expected to be as Civil as possible and ensure that commuters’ rights are well protected. All PMS members are equally expected to wear government-approved Vests and headgears as prescribed by the Oyo State government at all times. The guidelines also prohibit PMS members from wearing Vests or headgears with unauthorized inscriptions, while they are to wear only those prescribed by the Oyo State government. Sangodoyin stated that the state government will create data points throughout the State for all PMS members to enable them to get properly registered and ensure identity Management. Again the guidelines state that all PMS members must have their guarantors forms filled in wherein the perpetrator or the guarantor in the absence of the perpetrator will be held liable for any form of infringement against the Laws of the country/ Oyo State. Other operating procedures as revealed by the state include: that the leader of any unit will be held liable and face the disciplinary panel should any member under his supervision contravene any of the stipulated guidelines; Feedback points and phone numbers shall be created throughout the State; all PMS members must not over speed above the d Prescribed limits, any perpetrator will face the music squarely, the statement read. It equally warns against overloading adding that offenders will face the law. Earlier, the Oyo state Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko, warned members of the Park management System to desist from fomenting trouble in the state, adding that the security agencies will not give room for anybody to affect the peace of the state. Responding on behalf of the PMS, the Chairman of Oyo State Park Management Disciplinary Committee, Alhaji Mukaila Lamidi, pledged to abide by all the guidelines raised by the government. He said that any member who is not ready to abide by the new guidelines will be made to quit the job.