On the back of the successful conclusion of the 12 months old recapitalisation of pension fund administrators, the National Pension Commission (PenCom) has assured retirement savings accounts (RSA) holders and retirees of effective and efficient service delivery by the operators. The commission believes that with the N5billion capital base of a PFA and a combined N100billion raised by 20 PFAs, the subscribers to the contributory pension scheme (CPS) would have cause to smile as the huge capital would enable the pension operators do the needful. “With the conclusion of the recapitalisation exercise, stakeholders, particularly retirement savings accounts (RSA) holders, should expect increased effectiveness and efficiency as well as improved service delivery from PFAs”. -Advertisement- It would be recalled that the commission had recently announced that no fewer than 20 pension fund administrators (PFAs) have so far met the N5billion capital threshold set by the PenCom twelve months ago in the exercise that ended on April 27, 2022. According to the released, the 20 firms have met the statutory requirement of N5billion each; totalling a combined N100billion capital now available for operational effectiveness and efficiency of the sector. A departure from the initial N22billion the operators were working with prior to the announcement of the new capital regime on April 2021. The commission while issuing the directive last year had said that the new capital would allow the operators to have more funds for expansion and operational efficiency given the huge pension assets under management which currently stands at over N13trillion. The statement by the PenCom reads; “The National Pension Commission (PenCom) is pleased to inform all stakeholders and the general public that as at April 27,2022, all Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have complied with the Commission’s directive for the increase of the Minimum Regulatory Capital (Shareholders’ Fund) from N1 billion to N5 billion. POLL The exercise became expedient as the value of pension fund assets under management and custody had grown exponentially by 244 percent, from N3 trillion in 2012 (when the previous recapitalisation was done) to N12.29 trillion (as at December 31, 2020). The sustained growth in assets implies greater fiduciary responsibilities that require more operational capacity by the PFAs. The urgent need to ramp up PFAs capacity to manage the increasing number of registered contributors and value of pension fund assets under management led to the recapitalisation exercise. It is worthwhile to state that 10 PFAs had met the new regulatory capital requirement of N5 billion as at 31 December 2021, while the others intensified 2 efforts to meet the deadline of 27 April 2022. This resulted in some mergers and acquisitions, which led to the reduction of the number of PFAs from 22 to 20. The Commission stated that it had approved the acquisition of AIICO Pension Managers Limited by FCMB Pensions Limited; and the merger between Tangerine Pensions Limited and APT Pension Funds Managers Limited and subsequent change of name of the merged entity to Tangerine APT Pensions Limited.