The Nigerian Communica­tions Commission (NCC) has confirmed issuance of the final letters of award of the Fifth Generation (5G) Spectrum Licences to MTN and Mafab Communications, winners of the 3.5 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum auction con­ducted by the Commission on Monday, December 13, 2021. Management of the Com­mission, led by its Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, con­firmed this to the Board of Commissioners at the Board’s Special Meeting, which took place on Wednesday, April 20 and Thursday, April 21, 2022, where the board considered up­date from management on the status of the spectrum auction. With the issuance of the final letters of awards of 5G spectrum and in line with the 5G auction’s Information Mem­orandum (IM), the two licensees are now expected to accelerate deployment of 5G network that will usher Nigeria into a more robust Fourth Industrial Revo­lution (4IR) and a more digitised Nigerian economy among the comity of nations. -Advertisement- In line with the terms and conditions of the 5G licence, the licensees are expected to commence rollout of 5G ser­vices, effective from August 24, 2022. The 5G network, when deployed, will bring a lot of benefits and opportunities that will engender accelerat­ed growth and smart living in the country. The technol­ogy is also expected to bring substantial network improve­ments, including higher con­nection speed, mobility and capacity, as well as low-laten­cy capabilities. Following a transparent, diligent, fair and credible auction of 3.5GHz on De­cember 13, 2021, the Nation­al Frequency Management Council (NFMC), chaired by the Minister of Communica­tions and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim Panta­mi, had, on February 22, 2022, officially handed over the spectrum allocation for 5G deployment, as well as Fed­eral Government-approved National Policy on 5G to the Commission. Subsequently, the Com­mission, on February 24, 2022, confirmed the full pay­ment of $273.6 million each by the two spectrum winners, in addition to spectrum assign­ment fee paid by MTN, for the 5G spectrum licence. The Commission is opti­mistic that effective imple­mentation of the National Policy on 5G will accelerate the actualisation of the na­tional targets in the Nigeri­an National Broadband Plan (NNBP) 2020-2025, the Nation­al Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) 2020- 2030, as well as other sectoral policies designed to enhance Nigeria’s digital transforma­tion.