The immediate past House Leader of the 8th Kwara State House of Assembly and candidate of the Ifelodun/Offa/Oyun Federal Constituency on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) come 2023, Hon. Hassan Oyeleke has unveiled six-point agenda that would bring quality representation if elected into the National Assembly. Speaking in Ilorin with journalists while declaring his intention to seek the mandate of the people of his Federal constituency, Hon. Oyeleke said that the people of the federal constituency deserve quality representation in order to refix the constituency for economic and political order in the area. He said, “As a politician with vast experiences and exposures that spanned over three decades, all these will be deployed to turn around the federal constituency for the overall benefit of the people of the area”. -Advertisement- Oyeleke who listed six-point agenda for the people of the area in the areas of empowerment, scholarship, good vapour with the party man, social responsibility, job creation and enhancement of traditional institutions said that “I want to state confidently that there should be no need for any elector in our federal constituency to call the contents of this manifesto into question because I have a sincere commitment to them”. The former lawmaker explained that he would ensure empowerment programmes for the people of the constituency so as to advance their socio well being especially for widows, people living with disabilities, senior citizens, widowers and needy families. Oyeleke also said that he would be a true representative of the Ifelodun/Offa/Oyun federal constituency by ensuring that regular meetings are convened as an important feedback mechanism. He opined further that, job opportunities will be initiated for unemployed youths in the constituency adding that, “I will sponsor and co-sponsor bills bordering on national issues;  economy, security,  education and others and also move motions on matters concerning my constituents”. He noted that  “As important stakeholders and custodians of the traditions, history and customs of our people, I will give the traditional rulers in my federal constituency the deserved respect and carry them along in all that I do”. POLL Oyeleke however assured the people of the constituency of maximum cooperation and support that would assist the constituency to witness even development and thereby take the area into economic prosperity.