French superstar Kylian Mbappe has admitted that he was in conversation with Liverpool ahead of extending his contract at Paris Saint-Germain.In an interview with Daily Telegraph, French superstar Kylian Mbappe has revealed that he held talks with Premier League giants Liverpool before penning a new deal with Paris Saint-Germain. The 23-year-old is one of the best young players in world football and could be the heir apparent to Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo as football’s next poster child. Mbappe’s previous deal with PSG was set to expire this summer, and as expected, his future was a matter of much attention. Real Madrid were heavily linked with the player and appeared set to land him. However, it was not to be as Mbappe shockingly chose to stay put at Parc des Princes instead. Speaking after the dust has settled down, Mbappe has admitted that Liverpool were also in the running. -Advertisement- Liverpool, under Klopp, have developed into one of the finest teams in world football. They have already won the Carabao Cup and the FA Cup this season and will play in the UEFA Champions League final against Real Madrid in Paris this weekend. Talks with the Reds do not appear to have reached a serious stage. However, the very fact that Mbappe even decided to talk to Liverpool speaks volumes about where they are today. Unfortunately, it was not to be, and Klopp has missed out on one of this generation’s greatest talents. Liverpool’s interest is not new, and Mbappe has admitted to meeting with the Reds during his time at AS Monaco. He went on to add that his mother is a fan of the Merseysiders. Whether this will factor into his decision when his new contract at PSG is up in 2025 remains to be seen. Mbappe appears to have an excellent opinion of Klopp and Liverpool. However, it was not enough to see him commit to the project at Anfield. Liverpool are one of football’s giants. However, it is difficult to see them spend through their nose to land Mbappe. Liverpool have a strict wage structure in place, and it is improbable to see them break it even for the 23-year-old. The Reds do need to bring in attacking reinforcements to replace Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah sooner or later. With signing Mbappe out of the question, it would appear that they will now look elsewhere. Given the club’s recruitment record in recent years, there is little to be concerned about.