A socio-political group, Tinubu Hope Nigeria Vanguard, has begun sensitising the people of Ondo State on why the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu should be elected as the successor of President Muhammadu Buhari. The group, which held a press conference at NBA Hall, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital, on Monday declared that Tinubu has the wherewithal to turn round the nation’s current socio-economic and political challenges. In his address, the leader of the group of successful professionals cutting across different fields, Mr Bode Famose insisted that the former governor of Lagos State has the courage and competence to manage the country’s resources to return it to a productive economy. He dismissed the claims that the prominent presidential aspirant on the platform of APC was sick, saying those who wanted the status quo to remain in which the rich would continue to richer and the poor would get poorer were the people behind the campaign of calumny. Famose queried that if Tinubu were sick as being portrayed by his critics, how was he able to observe the Umra in Mecca, South Arabia. The group emphasised that Tinubu’s pedigree, particularly how he turned Lagos State’s socio-economic sectors round, was enough to convince any sound minds that he was capable of rescuing the nation’s economy from the precipice. Chief(Mrs.) Florence Lawani, the woman leader of the group, explained that the group would take the campaign to the grassroots and speak with market women so that Tinubu would be elected president in the general elections in 2023. She said: “We are joining other teams to ensure Tinubu is elected President of Nigeria. POLL “I represent the grassroots, market women, I’ll tell everyone in the market, religious gathering that the person who can turn the nation round is Tinubu. Let us ensure he gets there.” Senator Tony Adeniyi(SAN), who was at the event, disclosed that some northerners began the campaign for Tinubu, adding that it prompted them to start South West Agenda For Asiwaju (SWAGA). He said Tinubu has what it takes to reposition the nation and turn the life of the citizenry around.