AKURE – Controversy trails the results of All Progressives Congress (APC) primary elections for the House of Representatives in Ifedore/Idanre federal constituency in Ondo State as there was fracas among members of the party. Trouble started in Premier Hotel, Igbara-Oke, Ifedore Local Government Area of the state, the venue of the primary when the voting process was disrupted 83 delegates out of 100 delegates had cast their votes. The aspirants are Honourable Tajudeen Adefisoye, currently representing the federal constituency, Mr Bamidele Oloyelogun, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly and Mr Moshood Bakare. -Advertisement- The Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun who’s one of the three contestants in the primary alleged that the agent of the incumbent lawmaker representing the constituency, Tajudeen Adefisoye, beat up his agent at the venue. Therefore, the speaker said the voting exercise should be discontinued and rescheduled. But the party’s electoral officer for the primary, Mr Taiwo Akeju, disclosed that “out of 100 delegates, 83 had voted and there was a lacuna which we have to solve. “And all the aspirants cooperated with us. We have counted it and the interim result is with us. We will write our result and the national leadership will take it up there. “From the interim result, Hon. Bamidele Oloyelogun got 3 votes, Moshood Bakare 6, Adefisoye 70 votes while four votes are voided.” POLL Meanwhile, the result of the Akure North/South federal constituency showed that Aderin Adesida emerged as the winner of the primary despite gunshots at Ade Super Hotel, Akure, the venue of the primary. Adesida polled 68 votes to defeat the current serving lawmaker, Mayokun Alade who had 37 votes while Oluwafemi Fadairo also scored five votes. Meanwhile, when the Chairman of the House of Representatives Primary Electoral Committee, Adeyemi Akola, wanted to announce the results, some miscreants stormed the venue calling for the annulment of the results. But security operatives on ground saved the situation as they overpowered the invaders.