ASABA – Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege yesterday emerged as the Gubernatorial Candidate of the All Progressive Congress ( APC) for the 2023 Governorship election in Delta State. While declaring Omo-Agege as the winner of the election at the College of Education, Asaba, Secretary of the Election Committee, Ambassador Elijah Onyeagba announced that the aspirant emerged after pulling 1190 votes out of 1191 accredited votes of party delegates from the 25 local government areas of the state. Speaking yesterday, Omo-Agege who was flanked by Party leader, Otega Emehror and Senator Peter Nwaboshi, expressed strong of his party to deliver Deltans from PDP. -Advertisement- He maintained that a vote for the Okowa imposed candidate would be a continuation of infrastructural decadence in Delta. According to Omo- Agege, ” I do not share the view that Delta is for PDP. The question we should be asking is whether or not they are better of today than when the mandate was given to Okowa. He then revealed that the alluded division between political bigwigs in Delta APC has been addressed. ” The division that happened within APC, that is something you would expect. It is normal but in the past six months we have been reaching out to leaders in the party to plead that we are now in a political contest. Even when you are in a family there are between siblings. We have achieved full reconciliation amongst rank and file of PDP. Everybody who is important has been reconciled for the success of the POLL He lauded the leadership of the party for the painstaking organization of primary elections of the APC in the state. ” We have worked very hard for this day, we have been on this for the past three years. I want to begin by thanking God. I want to thank the founding leaders and Senatorial Candidates. I appreciate the party leaders for the confidence posed in me to take this flag. We want to pick the very best and offer the very and remove the failed PDP Government and enthrone an APC” he asserted. While speaking on the results of PDP Guber Primaries, Omo-Agege said, ” I wish him well and I welcome him into the arena. This is not about Sheriff or whoever, it is about the liberation of Delta State. For the past seven years, we believe that the PDP led government has not done well. I do not believe I am alone on that because the State has refused over N 900 Billion and over N168 billion has been expended on payment of political aides who come under different nomenclatures. As Deltans, we like and respect them but we prefer they create more sustainable employment. That is not the case because at this point money is wasted”. He also mentioned that his administration would place issues affecting Pensioners in the state at the top of its priority list. It is sad that Pensioners that give the best years of their lives to the State have spent six or seven years and they are yet to be paid yet you have a Government that spends N 168 billion in 7 years on people who contribute nothing to the state. All we want to do is to get to work, win the election and liberate our people from PDP” he declared.