LAGOS  – DiamondXtra, the customer-centric interest yielding hybrid account by Access Bank which allows customers win different prizes in transparent draws across the country, is offering N270 million in prizes in the Season 14 edition to its customers. The Season 14 edition, according to Adaeze Umeh, Access Bank’s Group Head, Consumer Banking, will also include among many other things, an offer of digital marketing training for 14,000 customers. Umeh, while speaking at a media parley, said: “This Season 14 draws will be different. In Season 14, we will be training 14,000 customers in digital marketing. We are also bringing the draws closer to you as we will be doing regional draws where 359 winners will emerge. -Advertisement- “Business grants will also have 28 winners while salary-for-life where a customer will win N100,000 per month for twenty years, will be a centre of attraction. We are also introducing educational grant”. The total amount to be given out for Season 14 is N270 million and a total of 62 millionaires would be rewarded with other consolation prizes and digital marketing classes for 14,000 DiamondXtra customers. So far, over 24,000 customers have been rewarded with more than N6 billion. Robert Giles, Senior Advisor, Retail Banking, Access Bank said the bank, through the DiamondXtra savings promo, is helping the economy of the country as well as the people themselves. According to Giles, the DiamondXtra rewarding scheme has improved year-in-year-out and Access Bank remains in constant engagement with its customers on what they would like in subsequent seasons of the rewarding scheme. He said: “The initiative has been very successful for the bank and when we have happy customers, we have happy numbers. So, customers who use DiamondXtra stay with us a lot longer and they do more with us because effectively our customers get rewarded. POLL “In the past fourteen years, we have come to realise that customer input is important and in the engagement, they told us to introduce digital account opening and we have introduced it. We didn’t see the great changes that was about to come when we introduced this about two years ago “Immediately we started the digital account opening, there was COVID-19 and it disrupted the way we do things. We had 2.2 million customers on DiamondXtra and in just two years of introducing digital account opening, we have recorded 0ne million more customers. “I would like to thank our customers who are telling us how best to serve them. We have increased the prizes in DiamondXtra and more people have been banking with us. We increased the prizes because we want to ensure that more people benefit from it. “We haven’t touched Salary-for-life, our customers told us that they still want it”. On its plans for students in universities and other higher institutions, Giles said the bank is aware of the importance of students in the things they do. “Access Bank, more than any other banks in the country, has more branches in schools. We have more than 40 branches in schools. In most locations, we will run dedicated draws in various campuses. We will be going to campuses to sensitise the students and lecturers about DiamondXtra and run dedicated cluster draws for customers in those schools”. Chioma Afe, Group Head, Retail Marketing and Analytics of the bank said: “We are making good use of our agents under the agency banking network. People can open accounts through our Access Closa agents”.