SAMUEL OGIDAN On Saturday, the 28th of May, 2022, the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar won the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after defeating the governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike. The victory of Atiku at the primary put an end to the ambition of Wike, Bukola Saraki, Pius Anyim, the governor of Akwa Ibom state, Emmanuel Udom and seven others to contest the presidential seat in 2023. -Advertisement- However, his victory didn’t not come on the plater of gold or silver. The battle for the ticket was keenly contested by 12 presidential aspirants, with equal chances of winning the ticket, even though Wike’s chances were rated higher. At the end of the contest, Atiku emerged victorious from the primary election where the total registered delegates where 767 as against 774. While Atiku scored 371 votes, Wike got 237 votes, Bukola Saraki, 70 votes, the governor of Akwa Ibom, 38 votes, governor of Bauchi state, Bala Mohammed, 20 votes, former President of the Senate, Pius Anyim, 14 votes, Sam Ohuabunwa, 1 vote, former governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose, zero vote, Dele Momodu, Zero vote, Chikwendu Kalu, zero vote, Charles Ugwu, Zero vote and the only female aspirant; Hon. Olivia Tariela, scored 1 Vote, while 12 votes were voided. Before the election commences, it was rumoured that Wike will win because of the alleged financial inducement and also because of his influence on some of the governors, party leaders at state levels and stakeholders, who were working in his favour. The ovation that greeted Wike when he came out to greet delegates attested to the fact that he was coasting home to victory, but all these were changed when Tambuwal announced that he’s stepping down for Atiku. POLL Tambuwal stepping down for Atiku change the narrative of the contest. While some political analysts called it the dexterity of the Northern politicians to favour their own, others described it as betrayal on the side of Tambuwal, whom Wike fought for in 2019. While stepping down, Tambuwal had said: “In view of the situation of our country and the need for us in our party to minimise rancour and jostling for power, in any case, it is not always about an individual; it must always be about our country. “I have come to the conclusion that to the glory of God Almighty, and from the results of what we are seeing throughout the country – millions of Nigerians suffering, and the need for us to close ranks in the party, and as one of the leaders of this party – I have come to a patriotic conclusion to step down my aspiration. I appeal to my supporters to take it in good stride and support Atiku.” A close look at the Northern Political history, it was discovered that once the followers believe in their leaders, they give them their maximum support. This could be described as what transpired at the venue of the primary when Tambuwal told his delegates to support Atiku. Tambuwal didn’t just stepped down on Saturday, many factors it was learnt, contributed for taking the decision. It was gathered that the Northern power brokers prevailed on him to step down because that was the only way to break Wike’s rank, whom they believe will get the ticket if something urgent is not done. It was gathered that after several meeting of the Northern power brokers inside and outside the PDP with Tambuwal and some stakeholders, the Sokoto state governor finally yielded to their demand. It was also learnt that they decided to play that fast one on Wike on that day of the primary so that he will not have the time to recover and put up a defence. But, because Wike had said at the primary and on several occasions that he will support whoever emerged as the party candidate for the 2023 election, many believe that the Rivers state governor will not do anything untoward to frustrate the party’s ambition of winning the presidential election. With this in mind, Atiku had sued for unity and appealed to his fellow contestants to join force with him to defeat the All Progressives Congress (APC) government in 2023. Calling on his fellow contestants, Atiku assured them that he’s ready to cooperate and work with them and give them a sense of belonging in the party and “our next government.” “My fellow compatriots, I want to appreciate your efforts. I commend you and I look forward to working with you very closely, so that together we can build this party to a level where we can take over the government. “I want to appeal to all the members of our party that are aggrieved, who have left to please return to our party. We are willing, we are ready, the leadership of the party, our governors and myself, to make sure that their grievances are resolved in the party. “There are internal mechanisms to resolve all disputes in this party, let us make use of these internal mechanisms to resolve our disputes in our party, instead of going to various law courts and getting contradictory rulings and judgments. It is not going to augur well for the growth of our democratic country. Earlier before the primary election, the Chairman, 2022 PDP National Convention Organizing Committee (NCOC), David Mark assured that the exercise will be free, transparent, credible, fair and just to all, adding that “whoever emerges from this convention will be the choice of the party and will ultimately win the presidential election for the PDP in 2023 by the grace of God. “I therefore urge our aspirants to approach the exercise with the spirit of sportsmanship. We must remember that the party is our bond. We are known for due process, peace and unity. These, we must not compromise at today’s convention.”