To refer to contemporary Nigeria’s political scene as a huge circus would not be an overstatement, what with the extra-ordinary comic shows that have been put on stage lately which eventually culminated into the one hundred million Naira price-tag for APC’s nomination forms saga. Sur­prisingly, several aspirants have since collected them but which, if they were sane and minimal­ly principled, would have acted differently. The whole drama has been nauseating and utterly ri­diculous. We have previously argued here while condemning the humongous amounts being de­manded from persons who want to contest election into positions established under the constitu­tion, namely, from the Presidency down to the Local Government Councilor, stressing the fact that the Nigerian Constitution actu­ally envisages an egalitarian so­ciety in which every citizen has a right to aspire to any position available in the land. We then pointed out that with the political parties now using ridiculous monetary consider­ations to shut out Nigerians who are not billionaires, they are practically replacing the coun­try’s democratic system with an oligarchy which unfairly re­stricts political opportunities and privileges to the extraordinarily wealthy minority segment of the society, the so-called money­bags even if the sources of their wealth lie more in the realm of cloak and dagger corrupt practic­es than in anything else. -Advertisement- Then the dam broke against common sense, ethics, morality and political decorum as a motely cloud of misfits, nonfits and jest­ers went ahead to pick the APC nomination forms which, by the last count, has as many as twen­ty-three aspirants including, of all people, the former President, Good­luck Jonathan and, wait for it, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele! Lest we forget, Jonathan was unseated democratically at the polls by the APC-backed Muham­madu Buhari in 2015 and to his credit, promptly conceded defeat as it is the tradition in most civi­lized democracies until the emer­gence of Donald Trump who is now probably the most notorious sore loser in modern times. That timeous concession endeared Jonathan to the entire world, and he has already started enjoying the revered status of a global Statesman when he strangely decided, like Eve in the Garden of Eden, to fall for the guile of Satan who lured her to taste of the “for­bidden fruit.” Today, many of Buhari nay-sayers are doing so be­cause they be­lieve that Jona­than should not have conceded defeat when and how he did, and they have therefore c o n t i n ­ued to an­tagonize t h e m ­s e l v e s with the B u h a r i adminis­tration. For Jonathan to have contemplated aban­doning those supporters and pitch his political tents awk­wardly with the APC against the PDP clearly confirms the “cluelessness” toga earlier placed on him by the APC apparatus. What is so alluring in Aso Rock that made Jonathan to fall so cheaply for a gaping boo­by-trap because there is till the legal doubt as to whether after having twice taken the Presiden­tial Oath, he is still ordinarily eligible for another oath in view of the fact that such would have pushed him beyond the maxi­mum 8 years’ timeframe that a person can constitutionally serve as President? The next act of perfidy that was brought up by the presiden­tial nomination saga is the re­ported ambition of Mr Emiefele (and the vexatious court suit to justify it), who momentarily for­got that he was the occupant of an office where political neutral­ity is a fundamental requirement. By picking up the nomination form, he shamelessly told the world that he has been a parti­san operative all along because the Constitution clearly requires membership of a political party from would-be presidential can­didates. POLL That CBN governor’s conduct is an insult to the nation. Worst still, that he is still in that office today in spite of his infamy is yet another evidence that there is really no one in control of the government. Another aspect of the perfid­ious enterprise is the fact that some of the aspirants had to resort to s u b ­orning jobless u r ­c h i n s and riff-raffs, cattle owners/ herders and al­majiris and “con­cerned” busy­bodies to procure their forms! These odious proxy game became the reductio ad absurdum of their shenanigans. The fact that there is, on paper, a constitutional path­way for everyone to become President does not mean it is an all-comers affair. Character and a healthy Resume matter. They have to be “presidential mate­rials” and not just delusional wannabes. Certain additional qualities are still required from the aspirants before determining their eligibility, electability and suitability. They include but not limited to the followings: An unobstructed vision for the country supported by a workable ‘plan of action.’ Desire to put his own reign in historical perspective, i.e., what will history say about him? A president must be a good communicator who knows the importance of the so-called ‘Bul­lying Pulpit.’ He must be both mentally and physically healthy. He must be prepared to make unpopular decisions; avoid the unproductive “easy routes.” Must have crisis management skills, not shifting blame or ratio­nalizing failures. Must be a person of good char­acter and of impeccable integrity. He must make his key ap­pointments wisely in such a way that he can use his hiring prerogatives to bolster his own political reach. This, in modern times, would mean gender bal­ance and in the particular case of Nigeria, the requirements of Federal Character. He must avoid cronyism and nepotism. That also including the boldness to let go aides who have become liabilities. In the instant case of Nigeria, people like Malami, Emiefele and Ngige have become political liabilities. A smart Pres­ident would promptly show them the way out. Must possess the skill and flexibility to collaborate with Legislators. Needless to say, that a presi­dent must have the charisma and aura of the office. So far, the recruitment process­es for would-be leaders in Nige­ria have been administratively too laxed and openly corrupted with the result that every Dick and Harry and, especially those of the worst hues, are in the igno­minious rat-race. A person who cannot do a self-appraisal of his own capacity and readiness has already missed the boat leading to the presidency. In fact, the constitutional threshold for recruitment for presidents in Nigeria is incredi­bly low: “A person shall be quali­fied for election into the office of President if – He is a Nigerian citizen by birth” which eliminates the other categories of Nigerian citizens. he has attained the age of 35 years. he is a member of a political party and he has been educated up to at least School Certificate level or its equivalent” which as inter­preted under section 318 of the Constitution simply means being able to read and write in the En­glish Language “to the satisfac­tion of INEC”. However, it is the expectation that through the processes of accreditation and vetting by the party’s machinery, they would have sifted the grains from the chaffs, but such remains a fur­long hope when the parties them­selves deliberately shop for the most unqualified persons who they think has the financial and political structure and resourc­es to mobilize voters. In a world where ideas, character, integrity, character and principles are eas­ily set aside for mundane things like ethnicity, religion and class, the risk of having nonentities foisted on the people as ‘Presi­dent” is unreasonably high. From the list so far, only a handful of them appears to have met the Barbers’ “Presidential Material” test and that is a huge risk that the nation is willfully taking: electing misfits that will only bring the nation further down due to their inherent in­competence, lack of integrity, poor capacity and the absence of patriotic zeal required to put their reigns on the good side of history.