EJIKEME OMENAZU The Civic Consciousness Global Initiative (CCGI), a group of retired and elderly Christian leaders, have called on the federal and state governments to give Christians in volatile areas their own separate faith educational institutions. The group said they would not feign ignorance of separation that Islam expected between male and female, nor were they ready to be pretentious about the right of every Christian. -Advertisement- Thus, creating different schools for both faiths would avoid unnecessary crises and killings of Christian killings in such places where contrary views are not respected. The group, in a statement signed by its chairman, Prof Idowu Sobowale (Elder), and Secretary, Rev J.B. Odofin, read during a press conference midweek, lamented the killing of the Christian girl, Deborah Samuel, by fanatic students in Sokoto, saying that providing separate schools for the adherents of different faiths would prevent such occurrences. They said: “We recommend that Christian students be given exclusively their faith educational facility where the hope of ignorantly annoying the faith of Muslims would not exist.” They also called on the Federal Government to give Nigerians one mutually agreed constitution where peace and justice truly reigns. They maintained that the current crisis over Deborah Samuel’s killing was a pointer to the problems of forced unity in a nation being ruled with two constitutions in one, adding that the state of the Nigerian nation had been very worrisome in the past few years. POLL According to the leaders, “Insecurity has reached its highest level in our history as a nation, the event leading to the Nigeria civil war seems a childsplay when compared with the present happenings! “We need not remind you of the gory details, but for the record, the smuggling of the Islamic Sharia laws into our Constitution ab initio has been the bane of divisions among all loving Nigerians. “Those who smuggled it in had a hidden intention and those who saw the evil or danger inherent in it, out of fear of losing out, kept quiet. “The same attitude goes on today and unless the fraud is arrested boldly and firmly, the recurring Stone Age jungle justice will continue in our beloved nation, Nigeria.” They cited the case of Tafawa Balewa University students on whom the sentence of Fatwa (an Islamic death sentence) was pronounced in 2004 by a 31-year-old Fulani, who they stated, had since been walking around as a free man. “One of the sentenced persons in this school had been beheaded before CAN (Christian Association of Nigeria) intervened to rescue the rest to Lagos. “We also have the RCCG woman who was on her daily morning evangelism (Morning Cry) in Abuja that was brutally killed. “We cannot forget the case of Akaluka who was beheaded somewhere in Kano and his head was hoisted on a stick and carried about in jubilation like a flag. “The Head of State then, General Sanni Abacha, ordered the death of eight of the nine culprits fingered in the case. “The ninth person, though, incarcerated for two years then, is today walking about now, a free man. “There is also the very annoying case of a government teacher who was transferred to a school in Gombe State, Northern Nigeria and while invigilating in an internal examination, she tried to prevent a student from cheating by seizing the student’s bag and throwing it where other students’ bags were kept. “The cheating student instantly raised a false alarm that the teacher had desecrated her copy of the holy Quran! The teacher was lynched and beaten to death.” They lamented that arms of equal military sizes had been in the hands of non-state actors, who they describe as “enemies of our sovereignty, for whom a more strategic decisive action is still being expected from the highest security authorities in the land.” In the case of Deborah Samuel they stressed that the arrested initiators in her class and their army of collaborators who took the law into their hands to kill her should be brought to book.