Three persons have been reported dead during a fresh attack on the Inen Community, OrukAnam local government area of Akwa Ibom State. Recall that the Inen community was last year in the news for repeated cases of attack, killing and displacement of residents. The tense security situation in the area lasted for six months. Victims of Tuesday’s attack, our correspondent gathered, were killed in their different homes when some hoodlums arrived in the community in a motorcycle convoy. -Advertisement- Johnson Akpakpan, an eyewitness told our correspondent in Uyo on Wednesday that the first house they revisited was the home of one of the victims of last year’s cult clash, Mrs Choice Etuk who was rescued through the intervention of the governor’s wife,  Dr Martha Udom Emmanuel. He said the hoodlums did not only attack and kill the stepson of their former victim, but also made away with his new motorcycle. Akpakpan said the hoodlums suspected to be cultists from neighbouring communities proceeded to Elder Sunday Jumbo’s compound and killed their second victim before they killed the third victim and bolted away with a  “POS” machine . Another eyewitness who pleaded anonymity alleged that the killing was cult-related and that the hoodlums came from neighbouring local government areas for the operations. “I cannot establish whether the group is Debalm or Iceland confraternities. But we are suspecting that they are not robbers. If they were robbers, they would have collected the motorcycle, money and ” POS” machine without killing their victims. POLL ” We are shocked that this incident has returned to our community after the whole village was deserted last year because of cult-related killings. We are living in fear now, nobody knows what would happen next ” he lamented. Meanwhile, the Chairman of OrukAnam local government area,  Mr  Kingsley Frank has mobilized a  Joint security team to restore peace in the area. “The council boss has issued an ultimatum to all the cultists in the community to fetch out the perpetrators of the crime as security Agencies are investigating the killings”. A source who craved anonymity said When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in Akwa Ibom, SP Odiko Mcdon confirmed the incident but explained that there were conflicting reports on the number of victims in the sad incident. “There are conflicting reports concerning the number of victims involved. But as a command, we have commenced an investigation to avert more killings. “ “We are out to establish the cause of the incident. We are determined to ensure that the culprits are brought to book” he said