ABUJA  – Ticketing for the Abuja-Kaduna train services will henceforth bare new security features when resumption of rail transport resumes, Federal Government has said. Also through the Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMoT), government directed the resumption of the Abuja-Kaduna Train Services (AKTS) after a deadly bomb attack by terrorists on the route. The directive is contained in a statement signed by Yakub Mahmood, Deputy Director Public Relations and made available to journalists in Abuja on Monday. -Advertisement- The statement however noted that the concerted joint effort to secure the safe release of the abducted passengers being held hostage by the terrorists continues out of the public domain for strategic security reasons. According to the statement, the Government wishes to assure the relatives of the abducted citizens still in captivity that the safe rescue of these passengers is a top priority and not to misconstrue the resumption of train services, as abandonment or nonchalant attitude of the government towards their plight. It insisted that the Federal Government will never abdicate its responsibility in rescuing these valuable citizens, however, the government assures of its resolve not to succumb to threats by any faceless group. “Meanwhile, the Board and management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) wish to inform our valued customers that additional security measures are being put in place at both the train stations and the track to ensure the safety of the passengers onboard. “These measures are not only for the Abuja-Kaduna Train Service (AKTS) but also for all the passenger train services especially on the standard gauge railway lines. POLL The passenger train service between Abuja-Kaduna is to commence on Monday May 23, 2022. “Consequently, the passengers are hereby enjoined to cooperate with the NRC in order to enjoin improved service delivery, safety and comfort by patiently complying with additional measures that will surely be introduced for the safety of our passengers, such as requesting for passengers National Identification Numbers (NIN) as part of our internal security check in addition, presentation of the following must be strictly complied with before boarding the train. “Valid Photo Identification Card (ID)Reachable telephone number of Next of Kin (NOK) or close relative.Online and offline purchase of tickets must contain the passengers individual profile or identification data. “The NRC management appeals to our valued customers for understanding and invites them to effortlessly cooperate with our staff at the various train stations. “We further appreciate complying with these simple security measures while passengers must desist from obtaining tickets through unauthorized (Racketeers) sources” reads part of the statement.