…..Warns Against Return Of Ebeano’s Politics A non-governmental organization of Journalists in Enugu state; the Nsukka Journalists Foundation popularly known as NJF has warned the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP in the state against undermining justice, equity, and fairness in the selection of their flag bearers in the state. In a statement signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the Foundation’s Board of Trustees, BOT, Messers Ike Abonyi, and Paul Odenyi, and the acting Chairman and Secretary of the foundation, Mrs. Amaka Nnaji-Ukwaba, and Brendan Eze respectively, the NGO frowned at what they called devious moves to resurrect the dreaded Ebeano politics in Enugu state. -Advertisement- The NGO in their statement titled “Enugu state Governorships Race: We demand justice for ISI UZO” aligns itself with the call for the retention of the existing zoning formula in the state which zones the gubernatorial ticket to Enugu East in 2023 but noted the dangerous scheming going on to deny ISI Uzo local Government area of any of the five key positions available for the zone, Governor, Senator and five House of Representatives members. The statement, which was copied to critical stakeholders in the Nsukka senatorial zones like the serving and former Governors, Senators, Ministers, and legislators, reads, “Enugu state 2023 Gubernatorial Race: “We demand Justice for ISI UZO.” “We the members of the Nsukka Journalists Foundation, NJF a non~partisan, non~governmental professional organization have monitored closely the political schemings going on in the state ahead of 2023. “We restrained ourselves from delving into the partisan politics because our members’ interests are divergent and varied along party and individual lines. But our constitution mandates us to show more than passing interest in the political activities leading to the selection of leaders in line with our motto, ‘Conscience of the People” “It’s against this backdrop therefore that we are under obligations to advise political leaders in the state especially the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP against doing anything that will undermine the political harmony in the state. And for them to ensure also that they are strongly guided by the principles of justice, equity, and FairPlay in all their dealings. POLL “While we are in agreement with the school of thoughts asserting that the zoning formula in the state since 1999 should be retained because it has helped to create political stability in the state, we demand that there is the need to step up the justice by further micro zoning to ensure that the sense of belonging is total and all-embracing. “The NJF is particularly concerned at the devious acts going in the name of politics to domicile all political positions in Enugu East in just one area of the senatorial zone. “Our findings show that political leaders in the state are trying to pick the three House of Representatives, the Senate, and the Governorship in one area that has already produced Governors, Ministers before now as against ISI UZO that has not. “The NJF therefore will stand up vehemently against any move to totally deny the IsiUzo Local Government Area in Enugu East of their dues. They are politically and geopolitically part and parcel of this Senatorial zone but have remained grossly marginalized in appointments and infrastructural developments. “It would be the height of injustice in the land to eschew IsiUzo in all the five key elective positions from Enugu East(Governor, Senator, and 3 Representatives). “We noticed that this intrigue started when a deliberate move began a few years ago to bury the Gburuburu Movement and resurrect the dreaded Ebeano political family that many Enugu state families have wrong and traumatizing memory of. “NJF, therefore, wants to warn that it would mobilize its people and men and women of goodwill elsewhere in the state in support of its kith and kin suffering oppression in Enugu East. “NJF would also take copious and profuse interests in the role of political or corporate leaders particularly from Nsukka in the propagation of this injustice against ISI UZO people. NJF will mobilize the people against such and wear their correct garb as betrayers of their people. “Finally we want to advise Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to take into consideration the justices of ISI UZO cry in all he wants to do as the political leaders of the state at this time so as not to incur the wrath of his own people”. 