ABAKALIKI – A combined team of police, Army and DSS Operatives on Tuesday raided a camp of the Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network at Isu Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State and killed three of the hoodlums during exchange of gunfire. The three suspects who fatally wounded were said to have been confirmed dead at the hospital. The State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Chris Anyanwu who disclosed this while briefing Journalists at the Command’s headquarters, Abakaliki, said the operation followed an attack on police checkpoint by the hoodlums on Monday in which a policeman was killed. -Advertisement- “A joint operation of the Ebonyi State Police Command Tactical Operation Teams, the Military and DSS embarked on an operation this day, 31/05/2022 to dislodge criminals hibernating at the main camp of Eastern Security Network (ESN) within Onicha Isu LGA of Ebonyi State. “This was sequel to an attack on a Police patrol team yesterday evening during which an Police officer was murdered in cold blood by the hoodlums. “Based on intelligence at the Police Command’s disposal, the hoodlums were trailed to a camp at Isu Onicha. “While surveying the one-way route into the camp, the combined security forces were ambushed by the hoodlums who rained sporadic bullet shots in their direction,” Anyanwu said. “In a swift and spontaneous response, the joint team engaged the hoodlums in a counter-firing that lasted over 30minutes and neutralized them. As a result of the superior firing power of the joint team, some of the hoodlums with bullet-wounds scampered for escape in different directions. The team later combed the bush and recovered two AK rifles with a few rounds of their ammunition and three corpses of the assailants. POLL According to Anyanwu, the team made their way to the main enclave of the miscreants and after a thorough ransacking, recoverd the following exhibits, One AK-49 rifle breech number 1984-AM1196, One AK-47 rifle breech number 1971-DF2726,One AR rifle with illegible breech number,One hundred and forty-seven (147) rounds of AR ammunition, Thirty-eight (38) rounds of AK-47 ammunition, One locally fabricated double-barrelled pistol, Others are: Two walkie-talkie sets and their chargers,Two charm-like substances, One hospital card, One Diamond bank ATM card, Two National ID cards,One Techno phone battery, and other incriminating items. The Command further urged members of the public to assist the Police with relevant information about the activities of the criminals and their hideouts and be assured of utmost protection of their identities. “In another development, the Command’s Crack Squad, in two separate operations, swooped on the shrine/residence of two notorious native doctors; ITUMO EDEH OMUKWOR aged 63yrs and IREM OGBEJI NWADUMA aged 50yrs, all of Okpera Osege in Ndufu Echara Ikwo LGA, of Ebonyi State.. “One locally fabricated pistol, one revolver pump action gun with two cartridges and substances believed to be charms were recovered from them. “The duo are arrested in connection to the incessant attacked on Police formations/personnel and government establishments as well as preparing their cohorts with charms when going for such dastardly attacks. “The Police Command advises all medical practitioners and hospital operators to report any case of patients with bullet injuries to the police for necessary actions,” the statement added.