DAMATURU – Nigeria Conservation Foundation (NCF) have commemorated the 2022 World Migratory Bird Day in Hadejia-Nguru Wetlands with a call against light pollution. NCF is the foremost Environmental Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) in Nigeria with field Project Offices sprayed across the country. They also establish school conservation club in schools to raise awareness about environmental education through their “Catch them young” Programme. -Advertisement- NCF took the awareness event of the 2022 World Migratory Bird Day with the Theme: Light Pollution “Dim the light for birds at Night” to Waterfowls Sanctuary , the wetlands sector of the Chad Basin National Park, gathering school children of the Catch them Young school conservation clubs to celebrates the global awareness event on May 16, 2022. Highlighting the significance of the event held in Waterfowls Sanctuary of the Wetland sector of Chad Basin National Parks Nguru Yobe State, Mr Harry Hanson informed the gathering that, the World Migratory Bird Day event (WMBD) is an awareness-raising campaign highlighting the need for the conservation of migratory birds and their habitats. The event according to him aims at drawing attention on the threats faced by migratory birds, their ecological importance, and the need for International cooperation to conserve them. Hanson explained that, World Migratory Bird Day is celebrated on two peak days each year (the second Saturdays of May and October) to highlight the need for international collaboration to ensure the conservation of migratory birds and their habitats globally. The Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) is an intergovernmental treaty dedicated to the conservation of migratory waterbirds that migrate along the African-Eurasian Flyway. The Agreement covers 255 species of bird ecologically dependent on wetlands for at least part of their annual cycle. The treaty covers 119 Range States from Europe, Africa, the Middle East, parts of Asia and Canada. 80 countries and the European Union have become a Contracting Party to the agreement. POLL He further said that World Migratory Bird Day was initiated in 2006 by the Secretariat of the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) in collaboration with the Secretariat of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS). He concluded by saying that this year’s theme is centered on Light Pollution (Dim the light for birds at night) and with the two peak days of the campaign, the aim is to raise awareness around the issue in May and initiate concrete actions to tackle light pollution in October 2022 event. In his paper presentation on the Theme of the event, Mr Apeverga Paul Tersoo, a lecturer in the Department of Environmental Management and Toxicology, Federal University Dutse said that Nocturnal migrating birds are usually attracted to light pollution and this leads to disorientation, making the birds vulnerable to collisions and other dangers as they deviate from their flyways. He further said that In the United States alone, an estimated 100 million birds die every year from colliding with buildings and other man-made structures. Furthermore, research has also shown that not only does light pollution affects migration in birds, it also impact birds in the breeding and wintering seasons, by disrupting their phenology’s. According to Mr Apeverga, artificial lights are increasing globally by at least 2 per cent per year and it is known to adversely affect many bird species as it significantly threatenstheir internal clocks and interferes with their ability to undertake long-distance migrations. Solutions to light pollution are proactively underway as more and more cities in the world are taking measures to dim building lights during migration phases in spring and autumn. Best practice guidelines are also being developed under the Convention on Migratory Species to address this growing issue and ensure that action is taken globally to help birds migrate safely. “Due to the importance of birds and their roles in the ecosystem, many nations of the world have special days set aside to celebrate birds. The United States for instance has set aside 5th January as their National Bird Day every year, do we have such a day in Nigeria? As one of the contracting parties of AEWA (party number 22) and one of the 130 parties to the Conference of Parties (CMS COP), it is therefore pertinent for Nigeria to set aside a National Day to celebrate our birds”. “In conclusion, I will like to state that since light pollution affects birds in many ways than we can ever imagine, it is therefore impossible to know just how many birds are impacted every year around the world. I therefore urge us all to spread the message to “dim the lights for birds at night”. The event held today was organized by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation with funding supports from its International Partners including Vogelbescherming Nedenland, Wetlands International and AEWA. Participants for the event were School Conservation members from schools in and around Nguru Local Government of Yobe State. Student participants taken through the use of binoculars and other bird watching equipment during the outdoors session.