AKURE – The Provost of Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Dr. Samuel Akintunde on Sunday stated that when the institution becomes autonomous when the process of its transformation to a university is attained, it would attract foreign partners. He stated this during the thanksgiving service on the 58th anniversary of the institution. Dr. Akintunde, in his comment on the expectations of the authorities as the College prepares for transition to a University of Education, assured that the institution would move to greater heights as centre of excellence in teacher education. -Advertisement- He emphasised that when the varsity takes off, it would enjoy full autonomy that would assist it to attract international partners for exchange programmes that would expose the members of staff and students to global best practices. Speaking on the growth and development of the institution from inception till date, the provost ascribed the feats achieved to divine intervention and efforts of the institution’s founding fathers, his predecessors, staff and students of the institution for their valuable contributions. He said: “We are grateful to God that the primary purpose of establishing the College is being fulfilled. ‘’The College has been at the forefront in the training of teachers for this nation and the West African sub-region. ‘’So, since 1964 that the college was established with just few hundreds of students,  probably not even up to two hundred for a start, the institution has gone so far that as of today, we have over 18,000 students. This shows that the college has transformed tremendously.” POLL The Provost disclosed that the major challenge of the institution in funding, he however, appreciated the Federal Government for its financial support to the College in terms of normal and special interventions through the Tertiary Education Trust Fund ( TETFund). He said such interventions had contributed tremendously to the physical and academic development of the institution. Moreover, the management of the institution, in collaboration with the Alumni, has lined up different activities to mark the Founder’s Day.