The 7th Africa and Indian Ocean (AFI) Aviation Week held in Abuja between May 16 through May 20, 2022 by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), in conjunction with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), attracted experts from all spheres of the industry. OLUSEGUN KOIKI writes. The global aviation industry was stagnant for about two years due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to the closure of world’s economies and airspace for several months. Africa before the outbreak of the disease was distressed and struggling to compete with other continents, but COVID-19 pandemic further compounded its woes and brought its aviation industry on its knees. -Advertisement- But, the gathering of industry stakeholders and experts for five days, last week in Abuja for the Africa-Indian Ocean (AFI) Aviation Week under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to discuss the challenges and potential of aviation on the continent, brought some rays of hope for players in the sector. The gathering, which was the first in the last three years, having been held last in Kampala, Uganda in May, 2019, no thanks to the pandemic, brought together Directors-General of Civil Aviation Authorities, aviation safety and security representatives, experts of AFI Region Member States, and other representatives and connoisseurs from international and regional organisations. Also, airlines and airport operators, air navigation service providers and Approved Training Organisations (ATOs) were fully represented at the occasion. Participants deliberated extensively on current challenges facing the industry, especially the Covid-19 pandemic and proffered solutions on how to wriggle out of it and other challenges. Also, participants at the five days event sought to identify opportunities to improve the effective implementation of critical elements of the state safety and security oversight systems, and deliberated on emerging issues with special focus on safety and security concerns. POLL Most of the participants agreed that the aviation industry is an enabler to economic development, promotion of development of National Aviation Plans and creates awareness on air connectivity in Africa through the controversial Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), and the infrastructure development Gap on the continent. Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation in his speech said there was the need to support the growth of air transport in the region by ICAO and other major organisations in Africa and India Ocean. Sirika explained that the gathering was important not just to review the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic and other industry challenges, but also to devise new ways of implementing and achieving their objectives, by taking cognisance of digitisation and innovation, which he said are being highly embraced by the industry. He explained that the industry could only continue to make its initiatives relevant and sustainable through digitlisation and innovations, while also strengthening safety, security within the region. Besides, the minister pointed out that a safe, secure and efficient air transport system was a natural impetus for socio-economic development of the region and a means to support trade and tourism as well as integration. Also, Sirika further used the opportunity to call on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) to ensure the revival of the Human Resource Development Fund (HRDF), which he said has become inactive since 2018. According to him, HRDF was necessary for the growth of the sector in African and other developing nations. He appealed to the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC) and other stakeholders on the continent to pressurise the ICAO Secretary General to use his good offices to revive the fund. According to Sirika, Nigeria was one of the major contributors to the fund, whose primary purpose was to train technical personnel for the industry, stressing that personnel trained on this programme had gained tremendous knowledge about the industry in the past years. He said: “There is a human resource development fund, which was domiciled in ICAO and it is for the development of human capacity meant for them to appreciate and improve on their capacities to oversight on especially safety and security of the sector. “ We created it in ICAO and Nigeria contributed immensely to the fund and some Nigerians were trained and they gained capacity, while it was being used, but since 2018, we have not heard anything about it and I am sure ICAO still has some money in that coffers. “Also, many countries are ready to contribute towards the fund, which is for human capacity improvement.” He assured that Nigeria would continue to support ICAO’s initiatives and collaborate with member states and development partners on the development of air transport in Africa. Also speaking, Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, NCAA, in an interview, described the event as the biggest regional conference of ICAO for Africa and India Ocean (AFI). Nuhu explained that the programme had received a significant improvement for safety and security in aviation in Africa over the years, but noted that the continent still had a long way to go. He explained that to have free movement of the continent’s citizens within Africa, it was important to implement the SAATM agenda. This, he said, was one of the key priorities of African Union (AU) Agenda 2063, maintaining that Nigeria had gone ahead to sign the Memorandum of Implementation (MoI) for SAATM. Nuhu explained that some AU member states were slow in implementing SAATM because they were apprehensive of its effect in their local industry, which he said is being handled by the African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC), while the immigration aspect of it was being addressed by the African Union Commission (AUC). “It is going to take a while. Human beings are resistant to change, but once you see the positive part of it, it becomes much easier and we have many countries and institutions signing on to it,” he said. Earlier in his welcome address, Nuhu, challenged key players in the global aviation industry to enhance cooperation, collaboration and co-ordination amongst themselves in a bid to overcome the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and ensure meaningful growth in the industry. Nuhu stated that air transportation has the potential to accelerate the social-economic growth and development of states, which was further brought to the fore by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He stated that two years after the emergence of COVID-19 pandemic, the global aviation industry was still struggling to fully recover from the impact of the disease. Nuhu emphasised that the experience of the last two years had underscored the fact that overcoming challenges and achieving meaningful growth in the industry, needed the cooperation, collaboration and co-ordination of all stakeholders. In its presentation, the African Union Commission (AUC) has lamented that the compulsory Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test for all international travellers was reducing the total number of travellers on the continent by 15 per cent. Dr. Amani Abou-Zeid, Commissioner for Infrastructure and Energy, AU, insisted that the PCR test cost places African aviation at a significant disadvantage. According to him, PCR tests being the standard tests required by African States cost between $30-$150 per test across countries in Africa, thereby increasing travel cost for Africans by additional 10 per cent and reducing the demand at continental level by 15 per cent. Rather, said that in order to support a sustainable re-opening of air transport services, the AU through Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was recommending member states to encourage the use of the Rapid Diagnostic Antigen test (RDT) for fully vaccinated passengers. He quoted statistics from the International Air Transport Association (IATA), saying that over the past year, governments around the world had provided over $400 billion to airlines to support their survival and restart efforts, given the importance of aviation to economies. But, in Africa, regretted that the total estimated amount of the financial relief measures provided to airlines was $2,721,539,647 (about $2.7 billion) by end of 2021. This, he explained, included the government support in the form of providing loans, guarantees, wage subsidies, and direct cash injections to airlines: $2,638,765,827. According to him, this support was insignificant and said the AUC had continued to urge African States and our key Development Finance Institutions on the continent to further support African airlines, using many forms, including deferral of charges and taxes whenever possible, sovereign guarantees for private airlines, wage subsidies and other payment support. Besides, he said that the AU Taskforce on safe reopening of borders was also working on harmonising the existing digital platforms for traveller health credentials and border requirements. He, therefore, called on governments to continue to provide timely and accurate updates on their health protocols or requirements and to continue to provide digital COVID-19 vaccination certificates. He reiterated that SAATM was still among the AU’s key priorities to ensure sustainable restart and recovery of the industry and also improve air transport connectivity in support of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). “I am glad to inform you that AUC finalised a continental study on the benefits of SAATM, which is now serving as an advocacy tool to urge remaining States to join SAATM. “AU said that one of its major priorities in 2023 was to provide the legal framework for SAATM and remove all the current bottlenecks slowing down its full implementation. “Our current key priorities now next year include the establishment of a strong regulatory framework to fully implement SAATM and remove all the bottlenecks that are still preventing the continent to enjoy the full benefits of a safe, secure and sustainable air transport. Another priority is to develop a seamless airspace and air navigation services architecture to support SAATM.” If the resolutions reached at the five-day programme are implemented, it would put African aviation on the pedestal of leadership.