LAGOS – Matriculating students of the Chrisland University, Abeokuta have been admonished to envision a mental image of a desirable future they would want to attain in life. The admonition came from a notable entrepreneur, life coach and motivational speaker, Engr. Abiodun Fijabi, the guest speaker at the 7th matriculation ceremony of the University where 381 students took the matriculation oath for the 2021/2022 academic session on Tuesday. Speaking on the theme: “Engaging Wisdom for Intellectual Radiance”, the guest speaker charged the fresh students to be more deliberate and intentional in their academic sojourn at the University. -Advertisement- Fijabi said, “Vision is your commitment to what should be. It is seeing and identifying a status quo. And, you must take a risk to get to your destination. Turn all your mistakes into a learning point. But above all, avoid vision killers’, and distractions as well as make decisions about yourself.” “As you are starting this journey, you must ask yourself, who am I? You must be able to define yourself with reference to God. The real deal is your relationship with God. Do not let anyone consider you as a number. You are much more than just a number.” “You are a voice to be respected. You are a human to be honoured. Recognizing this will change your perception, it will impact your knowledge, and it will impact on decisions you make in your academics. It will impact the way you live responsibly among your colleagues, and it will impact on the way you obey the law and order of the University.” “You also need to ask, what are my potentials? Because as a leader, one of the greatest things you could do is to live out your life to the fullest. God has given you skills, and potential. Potential is a talent that makes you different from others and announces you to society. It cuts you out from the rest of the people. It is like an egg waiting to become an omelette or chick. It is God’s gift to you and to the world that you live in.” “You must know that everyone has potential. You couldn’t have been created without potential.” POLL According to him, putting God first will launch one into greatness and excellence, adding that God has planted in every human the potential to make them stand out.” Engr. Fijabi who is the Chief Executive Officer of Lord Princely Associates advised the students to be determined when challenges arise and approach problems without fear, noting that problems are preparation for greatness.“ One of the reasons why people do not recognize their potential is because potentials are never enough. Just like a raw egg is never enough. In every egg lie the great potential for chicks and omelets. But the eggs must be first cracked and put through a process to release their potential. If you want to develop your leadership skill, you need to redefine all your problems and make them a challenge. The challenges of life will make you successful. Vice-Chancellor, Chrisland University, Prof.  Chinedum Peace Babalola, in her address which centred on the lessons from the wisdom of the ants and underscored the fact that the small animals are self-motivated, noting that they do not need a captain or a leader to discipline them because they are self-disciplined. Babalola said: “The theme of my charge for you this year is to be as wise as an ant from the Book of Proverbs. The ant is an industrious creature; small in size, but wise in its ability to optimize its time, skills and resources. Here are some important characteristics of ants. They are diligent and hardworking. Ants teach us the value of hard work.” “Laziness does nothing but encourage us to procrastinate and remain in a state of lack and apathy. Ants are never lazy! Neither are they poor nor hungry! Their efforts and hard work sustain them! If we strive to be diligent and work hard, our lives will be blessed physically, spiritually and financially!” Babalola warned against cultism, improper conduct and any form of hooliganism and corruption, saying the University will not hesitate to apply the full weight of sanctions as stated in the Students’ Handbook to any form of criminality. She further admonished the matriculating students to show respect to their colleagues and staff at the university to make their stay fruitful and productive. The Vice-Chancellor, however, charged the parents of the fresh boys and girls to join hands with the University in the effective training and moulding of the students. The erudite Professor equally expressed deep gratitude to the chancellor and Founder, High Chief (Mrs) Winifred Awosika for her vision, support and all-around support for the university, just as she equally commended the University’s Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Distinguished Prof. Ayodeji Olukoju for his fatherly role and mentorship. The Chancellor, High Chief Dr. Mrs. Winifred Awosika, in her remarks done virtually, enjoined the new students to keep the vision and mission of the University to excel in their various endeavours.