The outgoing Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, on Thursday, submitted his presidential interest form to the Organising Secretary of the party, Suleiman Argungu, at the party secretariat in Abuja. The move followed his resignation from the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s Directive for council members with electoral ambitions to step down. Senator Akpabio also debunked reports that he has withdrawn from the presidential race, insisting that the submission of the form has “has buried the wild rumour that I had withdrawn from the race.” -Advertisement- According to him, submitting the form “is the birth and movement for the uncommon transformation of Nigeria and our prayer is, let God‘s will be done.” He stressed that he was a “stickler for due process and rule of law. Before I contemplated aspiring for the office of the President, I knew I had to leave office before embarking on nationwide consultations. “Doing so while in office, would mean spending public funds on personal aspirations. Now that I have formally left office, I will commence forthwith, my nationwide consultations” Akpabio also described the moment of his submission of the form as a watershed in the political history of the country, adding that, “this is a very important moment for the youths of this country and Nigerians. “I am in this office of our great party today, to formally present my duly completed form that will signal the birth of the continuity of the good things this administration has done. There is a need for continuity so that all the efforts of this administration will not be in vain,” he stressed. POLL This is as the former Minister appealed to politicians, especially those aspiring for one office or the other to play the game according to rules, saying, “let me appeal to us all that we go about our campaigns with peace and love devoid of name-calling, character assassination, falsehood and lies, in order to achieve undue political mileage. Let us engage in clean campaigns for the unity of the country.”