SYLVESTER ENOGHASE “Better governance with most useful thing for development driven with a single exchange rate that is stable over long periods of time is urgently needed for Nigerians to avoid further fragmentation and wider inequalities.” David Robert Malpass, the 13th President of the World Bank Group at the opening world Bank/International Monetary Fund (IMF) Spring Meeting press conference, advised Nigeria to end the petrol subsidy, but the country has budgeted N4 trillion for petrol subsidies in 2022. Malpass, an American economic analyst and former government official, in his take on policy that will be a drag on the economy of Nigeria, explained that generalised subsidies have significant negatives. “One is, they are expensive because they go to everyone, and they’re often taken–more used by people with upper incomes than by people with lower incomes; they’re not targeted. “So, we encourage, when there needs to be a subsidy for either food or for fuel, that it be carefully targeted, well targeted for those most in need. And we have encouraged Nigeria to rethink its subsidy effort. “Also, two other things that I’ll mention on Nigeria that are important. It runs a multiple exchange rate system, which is complicated and is not as effective as it would be if there were a single exchange rate. Malpass noted that the most useful thing for development is to have a single exchange rate that’s market-based, that is stable over long periods of time. POLL “That attracts investment and it also means that there is discipline within the country’s fiscal policies. That would help. And then, Nigeria also has trade barriers that distort trade flows, and that could be improved substantially in order to help the people in Nigeria move forward. “I do take note of the complicated situation that they face. There are weapons flowing in through northern Africa that find their way to non-Nigerians that create violence in Nigeria. “This is a very challenging situation that the government faces. And I think we, all over the world, people should have an understanding of the fragility that’s facing several parts of the world, but in particular the Sahel and the Sub-Saharan African area where the weapons flow from outside of Africa is putting a grave burden on governments around the continent. “Nigeria has huge opportunity because of its natural resources and because of its people, and I think could see its growth accelerate with improvements in policy”. Taking a swipe on urgent coordinated action on food security to help vulnerable countries, the World Bank President noted that the food problem is severe. “I mentioned the rise year-over-year in prices; that’s one aspect of it. It’s worse than that in a way because the prices crowd out the poorest. “And so, it hits people in poor countries and especially in rural areas the hardest. There’s also the tendency to move towards less nutritious food. If other food is not available in the diet, people turn to rice, which often doesn’t have the nutrition that’s needed. “This is clearly a severe crisis and it’s added to, or compounded by, the shortage of fertiliser that makes it hard to have a strong growing cycle. “On the positive side, markets react quickly, and we are entering this cycle of food insecurity with large global stockpiles. As those are released, I think there can be progress. And also, the supply of food, of fertiliser and of energy can be increased substantially by countries if they choose to do that. “I think it’s important to start early. As far as this meeting is concerned, there was substantial discussion yesterday. I don’t expect an international agreement on food. What I hope and expect is that many countries will step forward with individual solutions to alleviate the food crisis and the fertilizer crisis”. On the impact of rising food prices due to the Russia-Ukraine War, he said: “Countries should put in place policies that are strong and that attract investment by their own citizens and by foreigners. “Some of those can be revenue mobilisation policies but, very important, they should be growth policies and they should attract private sector investment. There’s been a tendency to have too much emphasis on government-led investment, which doesn’t end up adding to the competitiveness and the productivity as much as it should, if it were less centralised. “I think those steps are important. As far as euro bonds, the challenge is for governments to use the proceeds very effectively now if they borrow. “A giant conflict of interest is that sitting governments are able to borrow, and then future governments and the people of their countries have to pay back the borrowing. Remember, when you borrow principle, you only get to do it once, even if you roll over at zero percent interest rates into the future, which isn’t actually available for developing countries–productiv if you roll over at a low interest rate you still are not able to borrow the principle again. “It’s only a one-time supply of money, and that has to be used very effectively. And my worry is that hasn’t been the case in certain countries, and they’re left with unsustainable debt. ‘As I mentioned in the opening remarks, it’s important that we have prompt, early resolution processes for unsustainable debt. And we’re working on that with the IMF, collaborating and encouraging the G20 to move quickly in that regard.” It would be recalled that the World Bank /International Monetary Institution (IMF) on its emerging economies ‘Doom Loop’, raised a red flag on what he called potential ‘doom loop’ emerging economies in which Nigeria is classified by the multilateral institution. It said this in a report, titled “Emerging-Market Banks’ Government Debt Holdings Pose Financial Stability Risks.” It would also be recalled that in Nigeria bank credit to the public sector surged to N14.9 trillion as of February 2022, an uptick from the N14.2 recorded in January 2022. The unprecedented levels of government debt, raising the risk that public-sector financial pressures would jeopardise financial stability in most emerging markets and developing economies. IMF in the report said that there is a reason to worry about this nexus between banks and governments. “Large holdings of sovereign debt expose banks to losses if government finances come under pressure and the market value of government debt declines,” it stated. The Multilateral Institution said that a crisis with the credit to the government could force banks, especially those with less capital “to curtail lending to companies and households, weighing on economic activity.“ It added that, “The sovereign-bank nexus could lead to a self-reinforcing adverse feedback loop that ultimately could force the government into default. There is a name for that, too—the “doom loop.” “It happened in Russia in 1998 and in Argentina in 2001-02.” The IMF also noted that rising returns in advanced countries as central banks start to normalise monetary policy might make emerging-market debt less attractive and put upward pressure on borrowing prices. A doom loop is a negative spiral that can occur when banks hold sovereign bonds and governments with weak public finances bail out such banks. “Governments are exposed to bank risk, as well as banks are exposed to sovereign risk by holding government bonds in their portfolios. Other names for the doom loop include the “diabolic loop” and “vicious circle”. The IMF stated that, “A sharp tightening of global financial conditions—resulting in higher interest rates and weaker currencies on the back of monetary policy normalisation in advanced economies and intensifying geopolitical tensions caused by the war in Ukraine—could undermine investor confidence in the ability of emerging-market governments to repay debts.“ Domestic shocks, such as an unanticipated economic slowdown, might also have the same effect, according to the World Bank. A cursory look at the Nigerian situation showed that bank credit to the government increased by N1.33 trillion in 2021, rising to N13.73 trillion as of December 2021 from N12.4 trillion recorded the previous year. The Debt Management Office said that Nigeria became the first African country to raise $1.25 billion through the issuance of Eurobonds in the International Capital Markert. It also said that Nigeria’s total public debt has risen to N39.55 trillion as of December 2021. This represents an N1.55 trillion or 4.1% increase in 3 months when compared to the N38 trillion total public debt that was recorded as of September 2021. Emerging-market governments rely significantly on their banks for lending, while banks rely heavily on government bonds as an investment that they can use as collateral to secure central bank funding. According to the IMF’s April 2022 Global Financial Stability report the average ratio of public debt to the gross domestic product—a key measure of a country’s fiscal health—rose to a record 67% in emerging market countries last year. Emerging-market banks have given the majority of the lending, pushing government debt holdings as a proportion of assets to a new high of 17% in 2021.