LAGOS – Seven-year-old boy, Saviour Onazi, from Trophies International School, Niger State, has emerged the winner of the 7th Winifred Awosika Foundation Scrabble Tournament For Schools (WAFSTS). Saviour scored a total of 458 points from six games to emerge victorious during the tournament’s grand finale held at Chrisland School Opebi, Lagos, on Saturday. For his remarkable feat, Saviour took home a cash prize of N250, 000, while first runner-up, Iwiru Oghenemaro, from Chrisland School Opebi, and second runner-up, David Steven Cole, from Akwa Ibom State, received N150, 000 and N100, 000 respectively. The tournament had over 350 representatives of public and private primary students from the country’s six geopolitical zones. -Advertisement- Each student at the finale was awarded a certificate of participation. Students who made the top ten were also rewarded with gifts and cash prizes for their efforts. The Founder of WAFSTS, High Chief Dr. (Mrs.) W.A., Winifred Awosika, while speaking at the tournament finale, said: “We were worried about holding this tournament due to circumstances unravelling around the country, but we are happy to have organised this edition after the Covid-19 break. This tournament was borne out of my passion for vocabulary and reasoning development among students, for which Scrabble is a veritable tool. We are happy that this tournament which started as a competition among schools in Lagos has now gone national.” Mrs. Fidelia Egwu, the coordinator of WAFSTS, said the initiative has contributed immensely to the promotion of scrabble in schools across the country. “Since inception, Winifred Awosika Foundation Scrabble Tournament For Schools has been bridging the knowledge gap between private and public primary schools. The initiative has trained over 3,000 students in Scrabble, distributed over 1,000 Scrabble boards to schools, and created jobs for over 100 Scrabble tutors. In 2012, one of our participants emerged victorious, winning the World Scrabble Championship in Dubai,” she said.