“LIFE is one long process of getting tired.” Samuel Butler, 1835-1902, VAN­GUARD BOOK OF QUOTATIONS p 131. Nobody old enough and conscious of the Nigerian situation today can claim to be totally happy – irre­spective of how apparently blessed. Those of my generation, who were in secondary schools or universi­ties in 1960, when Nigeria attained independence, must spend the rest of our lives wondering what happened to the dreams we all had of Nigeria’s ultimate great­ness. Our country increasingly reminds me of the tradition in many American High Schools. Just before graduation day, the outgoing students vote for the Student Most Likely To Succeed among themselves. To the best of my knowledge, no data exists anywhere to determine how prescient the young people have been. But, arguably, if a poll had been taken worldwide, at the start of the Wind of Change blowing in Africa in the 1960s, to select which African country would be among the top ten globally today, Nigeria would have won by a landslide. -Advertisement- We could just never miss; given all the natural, human and geopolit­ical endowments Divinely provided. Anybody suggesting that this coun­try would become the Poverty Cap­ital of the World would have been sent to the Aro Mental Hospital. I recollect an essay I wrote in Form Three at Igbobi College that year about Nigeria’s future after indepen­dence. After listing all the mineral and human resources available and potentially transformable, it was my conclusion that Nigeria would become one of the manufacturers of aircrafts, cars, trucks and ocean liners. I was probably not alone. To­day, 62 years after, we have not only failed to produce anything useful; it would appear as if we might never get close to achieving our dreams. I am incredibly sad to realise that I might not live long enough to ob­serve even a glimpse of our trans­formation. It will require several books to explain why I think we have end­ed where we are now. So, I will not even try.My generation and those immediately before us deserve to be held responsible for all the mis-steps which brought Nigeria to this sorry situation. We were the authors and executors of most of the atroc­ities which made it impossible for Nigeria to take off after 1960. However, I am glad to be alive to­day mostly because I never expect­ed to live so long. I was born seven months into the pregnancy; the doc­tors and nurses at Massey Children’s Hospital in Lagos Island took turns telling my mother “better luck next time”. Lat­er, I discovered that no male child in my own Sobowale family had ever lived to 60 years in about two hun­dred years – my father and all my brothers included. So, I lived fast and furious expecting to pack up any time soon. By God’s grace I broke the jinx in 2004; became the first son to reach 60. I now have four nephews over 60. Even then, I refused to cel­ebrate until 75. Death could come at any time.That was the only birthday celebration. God in his infinite mercy has made it possible for me to set all sorts of records; the first to see six gener­ations (grandmother, parents, my generation, our kids, their children and now two great grand-children) in his life time. Each new day is a new record. I wake up each morn­ing wondering when it will all end. Low Key Celebration Today POLL With my wife, two daughters, two grand children and my Person­al Assistant (who is more like a son) the plan is to have a grand tour of the Lagos Mega City complex – the hopeful future – then end up in a nice place for a nice lunch –if I can afford the prices at the Mega City. Then go home and thank God again for an­other record; and for something else. I have packed my bags. I discov­ered shortly after 60 that it makes absolutely no sense to be afraid of death. You can’t control your own destiny. So be yourself; be your own master. Worship only God. Human beings, no matter how highly placed, should only be respected. Before Fg Tells Lies Again On Health “33,000 doctors left Nigeria amid COVID-19”. VANGUARD, May 1, 2022. On May 29, 2022, Buhari will be celebrating his seventh anniversary. Some of us wish he had gone home in 2019. Perhaps, he too now wish­es he went home while there was still some ovation. The Arewa Con­sultative Forum, ACF and the Northern Elders Forum, NEF, had not yet got wise to the fact that the North was going to destroy itself by voting over­whelmingly for Buhari for a second term. Now, everybody is singing my song. In 2018-9, I wrote at least six articles begging Nigerians not to vote for Buhari. Today, the man who was re-elected is being treated with the disdain which no President should receive from hoodlums in his coun­try. They get away with it because we have a paper tiger in office as our defender. Before the report above came in, another one had been received; just as dreadful and just as indicative of the fact that Nigeria has become lead­erless. We are on auto-pilot; drifting aimlessly. According to that report 12,250 Fellow Nigerians were killed by criminals of all sorts in less than three years in this country; where we have a retired and very tired old soldier as Commander In Chief, CIC, of the Armed Forces. One wonders how much worse it could have got if we have an old market woman in charge. Terrible as that report was, the one about 33,000 doctors voting with their feet to leave Nigeria should scare all of us. For God’s sake, how many doctors do we have in Nigeria such that we could lose 33.000 and a President who attends clinics in London does not give a damn about it? What of the Ministers of Health (there are two chaps on public pay­roll in that ridiculous Ministry)? Don’t they also care? What steps have been taken to recruit replace­ments? Although, it is not surprising that the health sector, like the pow­er, education, food sectors, has taken a turn for the worse under Buhari and the All Progressives Congress, APC. Their party manifesto was a shameless swindle. Here is what Buhari promised to do before his election in 2015: “increase the quality of all Fed­eral Government owned hospitals to world class within five years…” Where is a single FG-owned hos­pital which is world class? If a pri­vate individual had made that pledge and failed, he would in the seventh year be facing charges for at least 419 in a Federal High Court. But, on May 29 or June 12, 2022, Buhari will address the world and release false achievements. He will never men­tion 33,000 doctors who fled. Neither would he make any remark about the thousands of avoidable deaths which are now occurring because 33,000 healers vamoosed. The num­ber will probably exceed the 12,250 killed by hoodlums – mostly North­ern-based. That is the leader Nigerians re-elected in 2019. We will all pay dearly for it. Jonathan Again!!! “Back again like a counterfeit nai­ra bill”. That is about the apt descrip­tion for the rumoured attempt by the APC to lure Goodluck Jonathan to re-contest as President. As usual, the lawyers have been busy talking as if this is purely a legal or constitu­tional matter. Senior Advocates of Nigeria, SANs, have told us, till we are sick of hearing it, that the man has the right to contest. I have no intention to get into such disputes. Jonathan also has a right to jump off the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos. To me the results might be the same. Millions of people will ask if the man has gone bananas. The fact that he has not made a categorical statement disclaiming interest is al­ready compelling some right think­ing Nigerians to start asking about the current prices of straight jackets – which is also perfectly within their legal rights. If I have my way, the first set of persons to ask what they think about this bizarre development are those who were his praise-singers when he was in office and their boss. Three people come to mind: Reuben Abati, Femi Fani-Kayode and Reno Omkri. The first two started by call­ing Jonathan clueless and all sorts of things not good character referenc­es. Then, they were invited to “come and eat”. Suddenly, the man had all the clues for solving Nigeria’s prob­lems. Omkri was a worshipper from the start. To all of them, Buhari was out of the question; not someone to trust with power. What do they think of their hero now as he is wagging his tail in Buhari’s Aso Rock? The second set of three are: Lai Mohammed, Shehu Garba and Femi Adesina. From the time APC was cobbled together till now, they have held Jonathan responsible for all the ills of Nigeria. Now that their bosses are flirting with GOJ, will they go out and campaign for him if he emerges as APC flag-bearer? Gandhi,1869-1948, warned rea­sonable people about the things that would destroy us. The first was “Politics without principles”. I have no problem with Jonathan. Irrespec­tive of the political party which fields him, to me, he is unfit to be President. The first thing he will probably do is to pardon Diezani Allison-Mad­ueke; return all confiscated items and re-appoint her as Minister of Petroleum…… Is this politics or madness?