BAUCHI – Following the crisis that erupted in Warji Local Government area of Bauchi State, that resulted in the destruction of properties with several other persons injured, the Bauchi State Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has said that he will not spare anybody that is bent on disrupting the peace of the state. Recall that violence erupted in Warji local government on Friday evening, the 20th of May 2022 , after one Rhoda Jatau allegedly spate blasphemous words on the prophet of Islam, a development that irritated Muslim youths in the community. They angrily ran after her. However, the suspect was smuggled out of the town by security personnel. The governor stated this yesterday when he visited residents of Warji community to commiserate with victims over the incident. -Advertisement- Speaking at the palace of District Head of Warji, Bala Mohammed expressed worry over the spate of insecurity in some parts of the country, saying that it was time for people to allow peace to strive at all cost as the consequences of insecurity were devastating. Governor Mohammed said that warji community has been a peaceful community for the past 100 years, irrespective of religious differences even as he regretted that the recent violence is coming at a time when Bauchi State is widely acclaimed to be a peaceful state. “Religion is very close to peoples’ hearts. It is very uncivilised to joke about each others’ religions.We know that there are Christians and Muslims in Warji. Those of us who are 60 years old never heard of a crisis in Warji before this time. “I must commend religious leaders, traditional leaders and security personnel for putting up a combined effort that lead to quenching of the violence,” POLL “I will not spare anyone found making attempts to cause trouble. My administration has a special regard for peace and religious tolerance and I will not fold up my arms to allow unpatriotic people to cause trouble in any part of the state.” he said Speaking earlier, Warji local government Chairman Adamu Muhammad Danjumai commended the quick intervention of security operatives which help in restoring normalcy to the community. He said over the years, Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has been supportive to Warji local government since the wake up of last year’s flood disaster that befell several communities in the area.