Roger Thompson Brown, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director at Seplat Energy Plc, in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, speaks on how Seplat Energy has demonstrated a solid commitment to sustainability, walking the talk and partnering with all stakeholders to live up to the vision to transform lives through energy. Excerpts: It is no more news that Seplat has embarked on planting five million trees in five years. What can you tell Nigerians about the motivation behind this programme? Our motivation is that today, Seplat Energy aims to drive the right energy transition suitable for Nigeria and offers excellent opportunities for our business, investors, employees, and the nation is continuous and would be sustained -Advertisement- We embarked on the tree planting in order to mitigate the implications of climate change and carbon emission, and as you are aware we have unveiled “Tree 4 Life Initiative’” which signals our commitment to embark on planting five million trees in five years. The programme, which we tagged “Tree Planting and Carbon Sequestration “ is part of our motivational project that would provide food security, reduce biodiversity loss and support the net-zero emission agenda in Nigeria The tree planting initiative, which has 75 per cent as economic trees, would essentially start with five states which are Edo, Delta, Imo and two Northern states in the country, and we will deliberately engage women, youth and communities for sustainable food production and a sustainable environment through tree planting in their communities and mindset change. The initiative will no doubt pave the way for Afforestation/Restoration Programmes, and we are committed to plant one million trees annually and not just trees as they would majorly comprise of economic trees for the next five years. Yes, we are unarguably working in line with the laudable goal, particularly as we continue to complement the efforts of the Federal Government and other stakeholders. POLL As a result, we will together positively impact lives while driving socio-economic change. With particular reference to Seplat Sustainability Report in this context, we’ve been delivering Shared Value, captures the impact we made through our performance on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. We have in our Sustainability Report clearly demonstrated our commitment to transparency as we published sustainability reports for each of the years of our operation. The Report explores our sustainability goals, strategies, challenges, progress and performance within our corporate citizenship space. I can recall that at the 26th Session of the Conference of the Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that President Muhammadu Buhari and more than 100 world leaders were committed to ending and reversing deforestation by 2030. Also, during COP26, Nigeria was committed to achieving net-zero by 2060. Barely a week after the conference, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Climate Change Act, 2021 (the Act), which the National Assembly passed in 2021. Also, in the wake of climate action and the drive for energy transition, the industry had the responsibility of evolving to continue providing energy to keep the world running in a sustainable manner. Given activities in Seplat toward the mitigation of the implications of climate change and carbon emission, it is obvious that the company is compliant to UN’s determination to attain the targets of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) come 2030. Can you throw insight to this? It is true that the United Nations launched its sustainable development agenda in 2015, reflecting the growing understanding by Member States that a development model that is sustainable for this and future generations offers the best path forward for reducing poverty and improving the lives of people everywhere. At the same time, climate change began making a profound impact on the consciousness of humanity. With the polar ice caps melting, global sea levels rising and cataclysmic weather events increasing in ferocity, no country in the world is safe from the effects of climate change. Building a more sustainable global economy will help reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change. It is, therefore, critically important that the international community meet the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, and also the targets for reducing emissions set in the Paris Climate Agreement of 2015. As well known, sustainable development and climate action are linked, and both are vital to the present and future well-being of humanity. As a result of these scenarios’, in 2021, we repositioned for a more significant Sustainability impact. We identified the critical need for the energy transition in Nigeria and our outstanding role in driving sustainable development as the leading indigenous independent energy provider. We also took steps to reposition the Company, rebranded and redefined our purpose and mission, and refocused the business as an energy solutions provider. How committed is Seplat to its environment, people and values? Seplat is strongly committed to deploying resources and expertise to create and deliver sustainable value to meet the expectations of its various stakeholders through a responsible approach in the management of the Company’s Environment Social, and Governance (ESG) imperatives. The Company is committed to driving operational excellence in optimising benefits to society and minimising the negative impacts of its activities whilst making significant contributions towards sustainable development and pursuing continuous improvements in its Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to ensure a better world without losing focus on the future generations. Our sustainability policy is based on the principles of commitment to transparent and complete disclosure of our ESG performance, encouraging responsible use of resources, such as energy, water and others, implementing human rights and gender equality, needs assessment of stakeholders to identify appropriate solutions, considering natural and cultural circumstances of Seplat’s host communities in the implementation of CSR initiatives; and setting science-based targets to deliver on environmental footprint. In addition, we adopt an inclusive stakeholder management approach; integrate sustainability into our core business model and strategy; embed Sustainability concept and practice companywide; operate the highest standard of corporate governance; leverage on stakeholder engagement in determining materiality; and exhibit a strong belief in our shared Value philosophy. Not only that Seplat is strongly driving Nigeria’s transition to gas, delivering significant environmental, economic and social benefits that support United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Despite evidences on ground as regards what the response of Seplat to Climate Change, what can you add to tell Nigerians the company’s future plans? Let me add that the Company is strongly adhering to its flare out campaign to reduce carbon footprint, and has gone ahead to establish a science-based assessment of our Greenhouse Gases emissions and reporting, and that Seplat is currently investing in new infrastructure and R&D to help capture some of the emissions not previously reported. Added to that, we are developing a Carbon Calculator for continuous sustainable deployment to highlight the most negative carbon emission activities. Our investments in gas at Oben, Sapele and Anoh are aimed at reducing GHG emissions. Besides, we have created a new energy group to manage our midstream gas business and explore the adoption of renewable energy. We are happy to tell Nigerians that Seplat’s operations impact a wide range of stakeholders; as the Company has continued to deploy proactive and effective stakeholder engagement framework, identify and classify stakeholders and their expectations, build mutually beneficial relationship with stakeholders, engage its stakeholders regularly and consistently, and deliver consistently on our Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) commitments. Not only that Seplat has invested extensively on development of local suppliers, of which over 98 per cent of materials are sourced from Nigeria; we have a deliberate policy of encouraging local contractors in the award of some jobs. The Company takes the issue of local content delivery seriously. In fact, over the years, Seplat has improved economic empowerment of women and youths with customised empowerment programme, sustained skills acquisition program for youths in its communities whilst creating jobs and developing local suppliers. The Company has also improved access to quality education through customised CSR programmes, improved community infrastructure development, and engaged 534 employees in its Nigerian and UK locations. In fact, there is a recognised need for enhanced levels of corporate transparency on Environment, Social and Governance (ESG), and as an exchange we are well positioned to encourage and even require listed companies to produce better sustainability reports that are issued consistently and with comparable information. On governance, Seplat operates with the highest standard of corporate governance, with the Board oversight of all sustainability issues and the CSR Board sub-committee having direct oversight of sustainability issues. This is in strict compliance with Seplat’s corporate governance policy and company-wide compliance with the Code of Business Conduct. In fact, sustainability is a journey and various companies are in their different stages of achievement and reporting, and the NSE will continue to promote global best practices as is seen in sustainability reporting, whilst also encouraging companies to do likewise. We respects rights of employees, community people and their culture. We maintain a non-discriminatory posture in recruitment devoid of gender, religion, tribe or other such considerations, and adhere to national and international labour laws and protocols. We adhere to relevant international standards and protocols such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights, Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Board decision from inception on complete and transparent disclosure annually via Sustainability Report, Creation of a new function of Research & Sustainability Department to focus on ESG monitoring and reporting. Seplat has been at the forefront of advocating technology adoption for educational development in Nigeria. Can you throw insight to your involvement in this brand of CSR? Over the years, we have made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of our company’s operations and the country. To consolidate our achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, we have introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers. STEP is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics). We have also awarded certificates to a total of 220 comprising 214 teachers and 6 Chief Inspectors of Education in Edo and Delta States under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP). We have also introduced the the STEAM model of learning to secondary schools in Delta and Edo States in order to promote creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement, and offer a well-rounded education, where STEAM are equal contributors to the process of learning. In September 2021, the 220 certificate awardees from Delta and Edo States began their training with an initial five-day residential retreat. After that, they continued training via the e-Learning platform developed for the programme. To commemorate the certificate presentation ceremony held on March 17, 2022, Seplat Energy hosted The Seplat JV Education Roundtable themed: Harnessing the Role of Technology in Nigeria’s Education Sector. The STEP Certificate Awards Ceremony took place in Benin City, Edo State, alongside the Seplat Education Roundtable, which had educational experts and professionals in a highly engaging panel session where the keynote speaker for the day was Prof. Fabian Ajogwu SAN, an Independent Non-Executive Director at Seplat Energy. The Honorable Minister of State for Education, Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, one of the special guests of honour, was ably represented by Mrs. Muna Onuzo-Adetona, a Special Adviser to the minister. In fact, what Seplat Energy is doing in the area of education is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us future returns than subsiding consumption. Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part of that cost. The Government has a role to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders. We should acknowledge this cost and invest in it. Education has a cost, and Seplat energy has written the cheque. In fact, as earlier mentioned, Seplat Energy takes the STEP initiative seriously. This year we have trained over 200 teachers and state CIEs. The programme is designed to ensure monitoring and evaluation of the teachers even after the training and graduation. This ensures sustainability of the programme, the Seplat Energy Director of External Affairs and Sustainability. What are the objectives of STEP? The objectives are to train secondary school teachers on skills, innovations, and technologies for deploying STEAM to deliver tutelage better to the students; provide and connect teachers to a collection of STEAM resources to enable them to understand, apply and innovate; and provide schools with resources to enable them to provide the right environment for STEAM implementation to enable students engage in the interdisciplinary nature of STEAM. It is an annual programme, starts with a five-day residential workshop which provided leadership and self-improvement training, training on STEAM modules and its application to teaching. The teachers were also provided with STEAM gadgets and Apps to support their delivery of quality teaching in our host states. Of the teachers empowered, 75% are from public schools while 25% are from private schools. Let me say the Ministry of Education in Delta and Edo States and the Ministry of Science and Technology in Edo State are both very excited by the programme because of the multiplier effect it will have in secondary education and have indicated their unwavering support for the programme.