What was the cost of a bag of rice before he became President? What of garri? What about an egg or a tin of milk? Yes, any food item would do. And what sector in Nigeria’s socio-po­litical economy has improved in any way whatsoever since Buhari’s ad­ministration? Is it education, sports, aviation, road transportation, manu­facturing? Has the overall employment index improved? Despite the tradermoni that has been distributed to traders, has the proportion of the very poor in Nigeria lessened? What was the level of Nige­ria’s indebtedness in 2015 and what is it now? Sometimes you wonder if Nigeri­ans have actually considered the real dimensions of the tragic leadership under which the country has been squirming since 2015. If development is about anything that improves THE QUALITY of life of the people, pray, in what way has the present APC ad­ministration brought development into Nigeria since the party took over the reins of power? The All Progres­sives Congress (APC) political party and its President Muhammadu Bu­hari-administration has proved to be a medicine worse than the disease it was voted into power to cure. -Advertisement- APC, carrying aloft a beacon of hope, approached Nigerians begging for votes. It posed as a salvation army primed to jostle against every ill that has subjugated Nigeria and defeat those destabilising and demeaning the country. Most of all it promised to free Nigeria from the shackles of ineffective governance and its sundry symptoms such as runaway inflation occasioned by a ruinously worthless Naira, dead education sector, electrici­ty supply that had remained shameful­ly, alarmingly and disastrously low as it hovered around the 3000 megawatts mark for some three decades even as Nigeria’s population increased expo­nentially and it stymied the industrial and manufacturing base. Stymie (or stymy)? No, it is worse than that. The word calls to mind a situation in gulf in which one ball obstructs the line of play of another on the putting green, so it means an impasse, a quandary. This one appears more like a national betrayal. The failure is as abject as it is tragic and irredeemable. . The abysmally low 3000 megawatts of electricity for Africa’s most popu­lous country and a pretender to one of its biggest economies will point Nigeria towards one direction only; to become a nation of shop-keepers and not manufacturers. Though APC came into power with the promise to take Nigeria to the next level, it now appears that it is either the leaders of the party did not know what they were mouthing, or they were simply being deceitful for so far, Nigeria is worse off in every way than she was under the administration which the present one succeeded. The greatest attack against the value of the Naira comes from the in­explicable wastage which Nigeria, a veritable oil exporter has condemned itself into; to waste scarce foreign ex­change in importing refined petrol while its four refineries produce noth­ing. How this could have gone on in an administration headed by a man as experienced in both oil and leader­ship matters must remain one of the inexplicable mysteries of this age. Here is a man who was a gover­nor of the North-Easter state by 1975. When the Olusegun Obasanjo ad­ministration was handing over pow­er to the civilians in 1979, President Muhamadu Buhari, as Petroleum Minister had superintended over the building of some two refineries. POLL Then in 1984, he became a military Head of State. So, he had seen it all, and experienced it all before he was elected President in 2015. So, why is Nigeria still groping in the dark under him? Something else! Nigerian intellec­tuals used to think they were making a strong point when they used to point out that past Nigerian leaders have been accidental presidents as none of them dreamed of becoming President and so never prepared for it. That was a lie because Ibrahim Badamasi Baban­gida prepared to be military president, dreamed of it and schemed for it. Yet, he failed himself and failed Nigeria when he overreached himself by an­nulling the free and fair election which the late M. K. O. Abiola had won clearly and cleanly. His supporters have ar­gued repeatedly that while IBB was willing to hand over power to Abiola, that some military officers forced him to annul that election. That is absolute nonsense. IBB was the first real and full-fledged dictator Nigeria experienced. While the Su­preme Military Council (SMC) was there to check the dictatorial tenden­cies of the past Heads of States, includ­ing Buhari, IBB rose above the SMC which he renamed Armed Forces Rul­ing Council (AFRC) as he could retire the members whimsically. Yet, even IBB did not prepare for the highest office in the land as Buhari himself did or should have – he had been there before. And while another military Head of State became a civil­ian President before Buhari, it could be argued that Olusegun Obasanjo was asked to come lead us in 1999 – as he exited the prison which the dark-goggled one, Sani Abacha, had thrown him into. Buhari campaigned for years through failed elections and then cried openly because he thought he had missed the chance forever. Then the chance came! But what did he do with it? Had he done nothing, Nigeria would not be in a deep mess today. He did worse than nothing and the value of the naira fell against other national currencies. Where there was just the Boko Haram insurgency in Nigeria when he came in, the Bandits and Killer Herders have joined Boko Haram in a three-pronged attack on Nigeria and Nigerianess. For a past and present petroleum minister, Buhari’s inaction on the local refinery front is shameful. Pray, what dream had fired his imagination all those years he was campaigning to be President? In his quiet moments, what does he tell him­self about the quality of life of Nigeri­ans which has plummeted unimagin­ably since 2015? As I wrote last week, quoting Dat­aphyle, “Already, refined petroleum takes the largest chunk of Nigeria’s import bill. Between 2015 and 2019, Nigeria’s total import value stood at $220.2 billion. In the same period, re­fined petroleum imports contributed $37.85 billion. This is almost 17 percent (16.91%) of the total import value. An analysis of the data on product importation by Nigeria revealed that almost 17 out of every 100 dollars spent by Nigeria companies on product im­ports is spent on refined petroleum”. Buhari should know this! And it should have worried him. Yet, we have been told that the an­swer for such problems could even lie in Nigeria importing petrol from Niger Republic. No disgrace could be worse than that because if the Niger Republic could run a refinery, why would such a task be impossible in Nigeria? And does Nigeria know that the Soraz refinery in Niger Republic has a capacity for just 20,000 barrels daily? Though the daily demand there is just 5, 000 barrels, the remaining 15, 000 bar­rels will not make a noticeable mark in Nigeria where demand hovers around the 483,000 barrels per day. And if we feel that we are too corrupt to manage refineries, we could invite Algeria to teach us how; Algeria’s refineries are government-operated. Nigerians have been groaning un­der a wicked petrol scarcity for weeks now and nobody up there appears concerned. As Barabara Tuchman writes in her masterful book, The March of Folly, about misgovernance and the folly of leaders from Troy to Vietnam (a span of over 3,000 years); “’Folly is a child of power; we all know from end­ing repetitions of Lord Actin’s dictum that “power corrupts”. We are less aware that it breeds folly; that the power to command fre­quently causes failure to think; that the responsibility of power often fades as its exercise augments. The overall re­sponsibility of power is to govern as reasonably as possible in the interest of the state and the citizens. A duty in that process is to keep well informed, to heed information, to keep mind and judgment open and to resist the insidi­ous spell of wooden-headedness. If the mind is open enough to perceive that a given policy is harming rather than serving self-interest, and self-confi­dence enough to acknowledge it, and wise enough to reverse it, that is a summit in the art of government”. Tuchman says of her book: “The pages that follow would tell a more familiar -unhappily for mankind – a more persistent story. The ultimate outcome of a policy is not what de­termines its qualification as folly. All misgovernment is contrary to self-interest in the long run, but may actually strengthen a regime tempo­rarily. It qualifies as folly when it is a perverse persistence in a policy de­monstrable or counter-productive. It seems superfluous to say that the present study stems from the ubiq­uity of this problem in our time”. Hey, who will tell the long since dead Tuchman that this perversity of fol­ly in government has been worse in Nigeria than in any other unfortu­nate country? It is true that Nigeria does not have a single mention in her book but future Nigerian leaders would do well to read The March of Follow be­fore they step into office for if there is any country that has been done in by folly, especially, persistence in errors even when those errors have been clear to all, it is Nigeria. Now, how many commentators remember the debate in 2015 as Bu­hari seeded the commanding heights of his administration with those he could “trust”. Now that Nigeria is boiling, it is affecting both those he could trust and those he couldn’t trust. So, in his search for top appoin­tees, he should have sought for those with remarkable personal abilities instead of those close to him. Now, please take extra note of the following paragraph (from Tuch­man of course): He “was a leader who shines among the best. (He) had a character of rock and a kind of nobility that exerted a natural dominion over others together with the inner strength and perseverance that enabled him to prevail over a flood of obstacles. Around him in extraordinary fertility political tal­ent bloomed as if touched by the tropical sun”. Would anyone ever describe President Muhammadu Buhari in such superlative terms as Tuchman described America’s George Wash­ington? As Nigeria prepares for another election and with the stark result of maladministration disrupting our very lives, Nigerians should pick at least one lesson from Tuckman: “Aware of the controlling power of ambition, corruption and emo­tion, it may be that in the search for wiser government we should look for the test of character first. And the test should be moral courage”. Lord Michel Montaigne, one of the most significant philosophers of the French Renaissance, tells us what that moral courage should resem­ble: “Resolution and valour, not that which is sharpened by ambition but that which wisdom and reason may implant in a well-ordered soul”. A section of Nigeria wanted to lay hold of the government apparatus. It did, and pursued its narrow interests, too. Now, Nigeria needs a real NIGERIAN hero to preside over our affairs because the events of the past seven years have taught us that no ethnic group will be happy in an unhappy Nigeria. The age of inde­pendent destinies has run its full course. There is a Nigeria crying to be rescued! The great wrong of mis­governance is crying to be righted. The time to do it is now or never.