Dozens of Uber and  Bolt e-cab drivers Monday in Abuja under the auspices of the National Coalition of Ridesharing Professionals ( NACORP ) embarked on a three-day warning strike over alleged exploitation and extortion by the e-hailing companies. The drivers are calling for an immediate upward review of e-cab fares to reflect the current economic reality in the country. The warning strike will last between May 30th-June 1st 2022. -Advertisement- The Deputy Coordinator of Administration, Fred Aleburu who addressed journalists on behalf of the group on Monday called for the profiling of the riders ( passengers ) for security purposes. He also called on government authorities to come to their aid by invoking relevant laws to regulate the activities and operations of the ride-hailing companies. Aleburu said the app companies have refused to review its fare as the companies continued to charge N300  for a trip despite the daunting economic situation in the country. He accused the companies of being insensitive to their plight despite all the efforts to find a lasting solution to the problem. POLL He wondered why the service providers are only interested in profiling only drivers and are reluctant to request for valid means of identification of their customers (riders). He vowed that they would cripple the operation of the companies for subjecting them to untold hardship and untimely death. According to him ” We have come together to organise this three-day warning strike because since the inception of Uber and Bolt in Nigeria they have refused to profile their riders. ” We have been on several protests and yet our drivers are dying. ” When passengers enter our vehicles they kill the drivers and in the end, both Uber and Bolt will not have valid identity documents of so-called passengers. ” This is simple let us share valid and equal identity with the riders, so when they perpetrate evil we will be able to know who did what. ” Secondly the fare has been reduced so much in this harsh economy that we are facing right now. ” Uber and bolt can give you a trip of N300 as drop off when we are buying fuel at a very high rate and we are servicing our car at a high cost. There is no servicing of the vehicle now that is less than N10,000″. The e- cab drivers insisted they remain stand firm that our rights their rights must be respected adding that new technologies should not be an excuse to strip them of their basic fundamental rights.