Pascal Ugbome is one of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial aspirant for the Edo North Senatorial District in the 2023 general elections. In this interview with Francis Onoiribholo in Benin, Ugbome, a lawyer by profession, who was a local government former Chairman, former Chief whip of the Edo State House of Assembly says nobody, except God, will stop him in his second attempt to secure the Senate seat of Edo North. Excerpts: The campaign for primary is everywhere how are you preparing? I am ready for the primaries. The primaries that concern me is on the 14th of May, 2022. At the moment, we are making consultations, marketing ourselves to the delegates and all critical stakeholders. The reception has been very positive, very inspirational and encouraging. There is excitement in the field because I am one of them, a part of them and don’t forget that these people gave me the mandate in 2015 to fly our party’s flag and I did very well and so our people are very happy about my desire to present myself again to be given the opportunity to represent the party at the polls. We are already seeing you as the candidate because we are not aware of anybody challenging you, is there anyone challenging you in your party? Yes, anything that is good will certainly elicit interest from many people. We have two other aspirants who are also interested in the ticket of the party. You said it appears as if I am the only one, yes, because I am a party man, I have been in the party from inception, the party knows me, I know the party, I know the people and I have served the party severally. I have PDP in my DNA. Apart from being a Foundation Member, I was also at a time State Vice Chairman of the PDP and Edo North Senatorial Chairman, I was also Director of Organization and Operations, I was an elected member of the Edo State House of Assembly, also an Elected Council Chairman. My Life is dedicated to service to the people with a demonstrable record of performance that is the reason it is looking as though I am the only one in the race. It is about Competence, Consistency, Experience, Networking Abilities, Dedication to Principles, Steadfastness, Loyalty to PDP and The People, Integrity and Chatacter. Ominimini embodies these virtues and others such as performance and dynamism. Ominimini is a Brand whose time has come hence the Worldwide Acceptance. With your popularity I don’t think your supporters should have any fear of whether you are going to be elected or not, do you have any fear? No. I have no fear. We had a good showing in 2015, I actually believe I won the election but because it is not in my nature to be desperate I did not go to Court perhaps if I had gone to Court, I would have been able to prove that I won the election but that is now history. We have learnt from some of the incidents that happened which led to the situation that we found ourselves that made me not to have been the one that was declared the winner. It is a costly experience but that is OK, this time around the situation in the country makes it even more difficult for the party in government to approach the people. Approaching the people is inhuman; the APC has pulverised Nigerians, the APC has turned this country years back. We have never been so divided as we are as a people, we have never been as insecure as we are now as a people. We have never been as poor as we are now as a people, even during the civil war it wasn’t this terrible . So what do they have to show, what gives them the moral equanimity and the moral standing to come back to the people and ask for votes?. POLL And that is why: “Ominimini” represents a “Breathe of fresh air”. So let’s take the people out of the suffocating atmosphere that APC has subjected our people to. I have no fears whatsoever that our people now see that perhaps if I had been sworn in as Senator in 2015 we would have been able to make a huge difference in their lives. I don’t have any fears at all. I believe that our people really desire a change and for now I represent the positive, progressive, productive, responsible change that they should have. How will you describe those still campaigning for APC? That is what I am saying, it is inhumane, wickedness of the highest order, countless number of people are in the hands of kidnappers along the length and breadth of Nigeria, countless number of people cannot eat today, ASUU is on strike, students are at home. It is shameful for somebody to get up and campaign for APC in the circumstances that we find ourselves. It is shameful and an affront on the sensibilities of Nigerians. What do they have to show apart from propaganda and the thing about propaganda is that it has its expiration date. They have run out of propaganda. The question is are we better off now than 2015? No, we are backward, so they should hide their heads in shame and I believe that our people are ready to punish them with the ballot paper come February next year and with me as the flag bearers of PDP I have no doubt that I will win the Senatorial district for my great party. The fear is that votes can be manufactured but people believe that with the new Electoral Law that will not be possible, do you agree? Yes. God has really helped us in giving them even if reluctantly, eventual boldness to be able to give Nigerians the new Electoral Law and the innovations that INEC has introduced give one confidence that except the people just go to sleep and the people will not go to sleep, because they don’t have sleep anymore to go to APC has murdered sleep . The only way people can have sleep is to return to PDP and bring progressive minded people like ‘Ominimini’ to come and rescue the ship of Nigeria. So nobody can rig anymore, it is going to be very challenging, our people are determined to ensure that they take their destiny in their own hands. Because you can’t complain if you go to sleep like I said, sleep has been murdered by APC, so we have confidence that this innovations by INEC and the Electoral Act will go a long way, of course it is all a human affairs but it will go a long way because our people have been presented with an opportunity to ensure that for once their votes count and the people wants their votes to count and the people are yearning and routing for ‘Ominimini’ to come and help to rescue them out of where we find ourselves today. What do you think this ‘Old PDP’ ‘New PDP’ in Edo State?. I don’t know if you people will be able to come together and resolve that issue to remove obstacles from your party’s ways? Actually as a thoroughbred democrat motivated by principles I must tell you that I am disappointed, I am scandalised at the manner in which the disagreement has protracted however, because of the intervention of the National Leadership of the party and because God is interested in real change for our people not only in Edo State, I have confidence that all the major critical actors in this seeming divide and disagreement will be able to narrow the gap, bury the hatchet and come together as one united family post primaries and face the Election. But there is also this fear that the current government of Governor Obaseki has not really done much in Edo North, that may also still play the people into voting the APC, do you agree? No I don’t agree. Government is a continuum, there are things he is doing right now, there are things he did before and there are things that will be completed that we can leverage to campaign. The government has not come to an end. When we campaigned two years back we had things to show that we have done in Edo North and as we talk right now development is ongoing eventually by the time we come back to engage the people from the later part of this year there will be more things to showcase to the people.