The Nigerian Baptist Conven­tion has announced the trans­formation of the Baptist Press into BP Productions Limited. The new brand identity was unveiled in Ibadan, the Oyo State Capital recently. BP Productions has been the foremost missionary printing and publishing firm in Nigeria after over 50 years of operations. The brand is a foremost printing and pub­lishing company renowned for quality print production that has set the brand apart. Her consistency over the decades has sustained the company and has given her relevance in the present day highly com­petitive market in Nigeria and Africa, at large. Speaking at the event, the Proprietor and President of the Nigerian Baptist Conven­tion, Revd. Dr. Israel A. Akanji, FAR said, “the Bible is full of change of names such as Sa­rai to Sarah; Abram to Abra­ham; Jacob to Israel and many more. However, it is important to note that the transformation of the brand is to allow her to provide more qualitative ser­vice to the Baptist family and all her teeming clientele.” -Advertisement- Also, in his welcome speech at the event, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, BP Productions, Dn. Dr. Tunji Olugbodi said, “it is time for the company to become a 21st-century production com­pany that can produce quality prints and also become a prof­itable business that will be able to meet the need of Nigerians and stop capital flight in terms of publishing overseas.” While corroborating the Chairman, the General Manager of BP Productions, Mr. Gbenga Ajadi noted that the Convention has invested significantly in the recent past in the company and they are ready to enhance the quality of work for all their clientele. Historically, the Press start­ed in Port Harcourt in the ear­ly fifties by C.F. Eaglesfield Southern Baptist Convention missionary from the United States of America (USA), to take care of his printing needs. However, due to his relocation to the United States, the Press was handed over to the Nige­rian Baptist Convention and was moved to Ibadan. The company was incorporated by the Corporate Affairs Com­mission (CAC) on July 28, 1966.