In order to boost food production and lower the prices of foodstuffs in the country, an agro-processing expert, Dr Eric Alao, has urged Nigerians to strive to reduce post-harvest losses. This is as he identified wastages on-farm and after production as contributing to high prices of agricultural produce and food shortage being experienced in the country. Alao while speaking during a seminar on Feed up Africa held in Ibadan added that food processing must be encouraged as a way of stopping wastage. -Advertisement- He said “One of the ways of strengthening food security is by reducing post-harvest losses. African post harvest loss can be as high as 50 per cent in vegetables, fruits and root tubers and 25 per cent in cereals. “Also, there should be adequate sensitization and education along the post-harvest chain on good agronomical practices. There must also be adequate training or knowledge transfer to agric players of the chain in understanding the causes of the loss and adopting a preventive approach to reduce loss. “Economical technological innovation that meets the smallholders’ farmers post-harvest needs is also very important as well as responsible consumption to ensure optimal food usage and waste reduction.” Another expert, who spoke at the seminar, Dickson Orisamuyiwa, said Nigerian investors should move in to reduce wastages to shore up the country’s food production capacity. POLL He said, “Postharvest technologies can contribute to food security in multiple ways. They can reduce losses thereby increasing the amount of food available for consumption by farmers and poor rural and urban consumers. “The benefits to consumers from reducing losses include lower prices and improved food security. In addition, postharvest activities such as processing and marketing can create employment and better food security in the agricultural sector. “Therefore, reducing postharvest losses clearly complements other efforts to enhance food security through improved farm-level productivity.