ABUJA – Natives of Abuja have said that it would amount to a fraudulent act, if the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Malam Muhammad Musa Bello organises a Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC) meeting for outgoing chairmen and other stakeholders. The natives also vowed to shut down the FCTA Secretariat, if the Minister goes ahead to organize the JAAC meeting on Wednesday for the outgoing council chairmen and other stakeholders to benefit from it, that they have information of plans to hold the meeting tomorrow. Comrade Yunusa Ahmadul Yusuf, Chief Advocate of Abuja Grassroots Advocacy Project (AGAP) made this known in a press conference, saying, that from his interaction with some natives of Abuja, they have vowed to take to the street if the minister organises JAAC meeting tomorrow. -Advertisement- Yusuf who said he is concerned about the peace and unity of the FCT appealed to the Minister of FCT and Minister of State to resist the temptation of calling for a JAAC to distribute taxpayers’ money to the outgoing chairmen and other stakeholders when the issue about the suspended swearing-in of the new chairmen and councillors have not been resolved. According to him: “I have been speaking to my people to be calm because what we want in FCT is peace, but from the fellas, I am getting from them is that they have warned clearly that there should not be any JAAC meeting that would make money to be shared amongst the outgoing chairmen and stakeholders. “Because the outgoing chairmen lack the moral right to collect people’s taxes in their custody. Their tenure expired on May 19, because they were sworn in on a three-year mandate. So, if they must be given any public funds again, they must go back and gain the trust of the people and be sworn in gain and it has never been done before anywhere in the world where people take double oath in a single tenure. “The procedures are so clear, that the amended law by President Muhammad Buhari was amended after the outgoing councils’ administrations have taken their three years mandate oath in 2019. So the new people who are about to be sworn in will be the ones to benefit from the new law,” he said. The natives lamented that the outgoing administration is causing unnecessary distraction and confusion amongst the people which is not healthy for anyone in the FCT. POLL “The natives of Abuja are appealing to the Minister to caution them to stop distracting the people of AMAC. If the Minister wants to stand by the law, we are advising him not to allow any JAAC meeting to be held. They lack the moral right to be given people’s taxes because they are the taxpayers that voted. “So you cannot carry their money and give to people whose tenure has expired and no longer have their mandate. It will be very wrong for the minister to do that. Please we are appealing to both ministers to take note, that they cannot call for any JAAC meeting,” he said.