AUSTIN OBOH The dilemma of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) finally ended on Wednesday, May 11, when it decided to throw the contest for the presidential ticket open. The stage is now set for what has correctly been predicted to be a three-horse race featuring former Senate president and two-time governor of Kwara State, Bukola Saraki; former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. Unlike the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) whose crowded space of presidential contest would most likely be a source of tension for both party leaders and delegates, the PDP challenge will be a much restrained one and the task for the 3,700 delegates to choose its candidate from the 15 aspirants cleared appears like just taking a walk. According to commentators, the factors that would decide the outcome of the contest are already fairly known and might not change much. -Advertisement- Beside the three already mentioned, the other aspirants who will be the focus of all eyes in the May 28 – 29 Convention of the PDP include former senate president, Anyim Pius Anyim; chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum and Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal; his Bauchi State counterpart, Senator Bala Mohammed, and businessman, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. Others are Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State, former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi; his Ekiti State counterpart, Ayodele Fayose; Chief Sam Ohuabunwa; media boss, Dele Momodu; Olivia Tarela (the only female aspirant); Charles Okwudili, Chikwendu Kalu, and Cosmos Ndukwe. The agitation for zoning had until this week been a major consideration and observers were of the view that if the party, against expectations, zoned the ticket to the South, quite a number of the most formidable aspirants would be automatically out. This had posed a major challenge to the party leadership which finally resolved that, given the time available and the calculations of the moment, it would be too dicey to go ahead with zoning even though it was retained for subsequent adoption. Goodwill, campaign war chest, past performance, political connections, and potential to win the presidential election are key factors that will influence the decision of the delegates, along with such considerations as zonal interest and loyalty. Nevertheless, so much is stacked against Southern aspirants, with the exception of Wike, and analysts are looking towards the North for the PDP presidential candidate in 2023, notably from the North-Central or North-East, in view of what happened recently among aspirants from that region in their quest for a consensus candidate. It would be recalled that Northern aspirants, except Atiku Abubakar, had agreed to pick a consensus candidate among themselves as they did years back when Atiku Abubakar was chosen against Ibrahim Babangida and others, but the understanding was jettisoned in the final moment when the Committee of Elders saddled with the task of selection chose former senate president, Bukola Saraki (from North-Central), and Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed (from North-East). POLL The other aspirants, Governor Tambuwal and M Hayatu-deen, who were not favoured, rejected the decision of the committee and even railed against it. It would later be observed that the reaction of the unsuccessful aspirants became a source of embarrassment to the members of the committee who felt used and excoriated by the belligerent aspirants. When the controversy became bitter, elder statesman and prominent voice in the North, Ango Abdullahi, according to a report he signed, explained that the aspirants had visited Ibrahim Babangida, former military ruler, and given him the mandate to lead the process for a consensus while agreeing to abide by the outcome of the decision. Abdullahi noted that after several consultations with northern stakeholders, a three-phase approach was taken. Part of the report read: “In the first phase, the opinions of six distinguished persons each from the three geopolitical zones were sought with regard to each of the four aspirants. Each of the zonal delegates were allocated two votes to choose the first and second choice making a total of 36 votes overall. The outcome of that consultation was as follows: 7 votes for candidate (A) Aminu Waziri; 10 votes for candidate (B) Bala Muhd; 10 votes for candidate (C) A-B Saraki; 5 votes for candidate (D) M Hayatu-deen,” the report reads. “One of the elders deferred his votes on grounds of continuing consultations with traditional rulers and other major stakeholders. Two members did not cast their second ballots bringing the total to 32 votes casted out of 36.” Abdullahi said the second phase of the exercise involved zonal assessment “based on regions which was concluded as follows: a. North Central – (Eight); b. North East- (Seven); c. North West – (Two); One is still under consultation.” For the third phase of the exercise, the consultations involved looking into the past experiences of the PDP in terms of northern candidates. Abdullahi added that he made recommendations to Babangida, which the latter approved. According to him, “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North Central and one from the North East are to be presented as northern presidential candidates. The two would in turn be required to make further concessions so that in the end one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North. “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Gov. Bala Mohammed from the North East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North Central be presented as the northern consensus candidates for the moment.” Inside sources have since hinted that despite the attacks against the Northern elders’ decision, they had done a very thorough job and gone with the dominant preference in the region. Since the North-West had consecutively produced recent rulers from the North, there has been a preference for a change that would see the region looking towards the North-Central and North-East. This would give Saraki, Mohammed, and Atiku an advantage. And, perhaps, it should be mentioned that Tambuwal may have alienated himself from powerful forces in the North that had been involved in the consensus task. This leaves the trio of Saraki, Mohammed, and Atiku with brighter prospects. At this point, it would be useful to note that there has been a swell of opposition against Atiku whom some party stalwarts accused of leaving them in the cold each time they had supported him and coming back when election comes around. Others have rejected him on account of his age and called on him to step aside for younger persons. More than once, Ibrahim Babangida had given voice to a popular message which appears to be the thinking in the land at the moment, and that is that younger persons should be given the chance to lead. This is Atiku Abubakar’s major drawback. But if he succeeds in persuading the delegates to ignore those issues, then he stands a good chance. As for Bala Mohammed, he is already seen to be willing to step down for any other aspirant since he has the option of going for a second term as Bauchi State governor and has already procured the nomination forms for that purpose. The scales, then, appear tilted in favour of Saraki who has an attractive resume as a polished and well-educated politician, two-time governor as well as former senate president. In addition, he has age and dynamism on his side. He has already been accepted by the Northern elders and his North Central zone is potentially favoured for the position. Perhaps, these considerations may have informed recent permutations that have thrown him up as the aspirant to watch in the coming convention. Regardless of these merits, Saraki has to convince the delegates that he is the best bet for the party’s actualization of its ambition to return to power in 2023. If Saraki stands a good chance, so does Governor Wike, the man who has been a major pillar in the party and won considerable sympathy for his often single-handed and dogged fight in the interest of the party. Expectedly, he has made some inroads even in the North for the role he has played. Nevertheless, sources claim that party leaders are worried about his intemperate disposition, viewed against the critical office of president. This is Wike’s Achilles’ heel. However, his chances cannot be foreclosed since he has been moving around the country and enjoying good reception. Worthy of mention is Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State, who has endeared himself to the elite class for his brilliance, visionary programmes, and prudent management of resources. But it is doubtful if he can win the hearts of many delegates through mere pledges at a time like this. And this appears to be the major weakness of aspirants from the South-East, including Anyim Pius Anyim. It would be recalled that Peter Obi, at the beginning of the contest for the party’s ticket in the presidential election, was quoted as saying he would not throw his hat in the ring if the office was not zoned to the South. He, however, came on board soon after there were indications of that possibility, but the present development may have upset his plans even though he is still in the race as a top contender. It then remains for Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State – among the top contenders – who has revved up his consultations across the country lately. He is one of the rising politicians in the party but he has formidable opponents to contend with and comes from the South-South that is believed to have done its slot even though for only a term through ex-president, Goodluck Jonathan. Nothing is off the table right now and not a single aspirant in the party can be ignored. In the countdown to May 28-29, the personality of the contenders and their push would count for much as they continue consultations and campaigns across the country.