The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) and the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau have announced the establishment of a Joint Mutual Enforcement Desk. The FCCPC which made the disclosure at the weekend said the desk will address crucial data protection to ensure consumers and businesses derive protection. The FCCPC recalled that in February 2022 the Nigeria Data Protection Bureau was created as an enforcement mechanism of the NDPR. -Advertisement- This comes after the Federal Government enacted the NDPR in 2019 in furtherance of prevailing national and international instruments and protocols to protect citizens. Babatunde Irukera, the Executive Vice-Chairman of FCCPC, said the collaboration would ensure that consumers and businesses derived the protection and benefits that were inherent in economic expansion that technology and digital markets enhanced. He said: “Considering the mutuality of both agencies’ objectives and mandates, the commission, and Bureau on Tuesday established the JED as part of their collaboration. “Both Agencies acknowledge digital markets strengthen economies and can promote shared prosperity, when properly regulated. “The JED will address crucial issues of data protection and the rights of data subjects to ensure consumers and businesses derive the protection and benefits that are inherent in the economic expansion that technology and digital markets otherwise enhance” POLL Irukera also noted that the agency is perfecting plans to address the rising cases of consumer abuse by companies, businesses and service providers. On airline fees, he said: “Every airline should price its services in accordance with its own revenue, model. There is going to be no mutual understanding of the increase in airfares. Any such discussion will be against the law. “With respect to aviation fuel, if airlines want to get together to address the supply issues from the same source at the same price, even though typically these are input costs that should be indecently and fiercely competed. We should understand that and relax the rules with competition in the supply chain. “FCCPC is also looking at members of MOMAN who sell jet fuel, to see if there is any profiteering or people taking advantage of the Russian-Ukraine war to unjustly increase what has been acceptable margins”, he said.