ABUJA – As politicians battle to occupy elective offices in the 2023 general elections,The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) including its affiliate, the National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS), have passed a subtle warning to politicians urging them to desist from overheating the polity, especially through utterances that can stoke violence. The student bodies gave the warning in a statement jointly signed by the Ogun State Chairman of NANS, Damilola Simeon Kehinde and the National President of NAOSS, Oluwagbemileke Ogunrombi. They appealed that as politicians aspiring to occupy leadership positions, they should be able to guide their followers on ways to play politics with decorum and not to see the forthcoming general elections as a matter of do-or-die. -Advertisement- The student bodies also notified the police and other security agencies not to hesitate in arresting and prosecuting any politician or individual found culpable of engaging in any act capable of breaching the peace of the State. “The era of political violence is long gone in the State. We don’t want anybody under the guise of a political campaign to create the crisis in the State. “Politicians and their followers must be mindful of their act and utterances they make, especially in the media and public places so as not set the State on fire. “We know that some politicians are hell-bent on disrupting the peace the good people of Ogun State have been enjoying by heating up the polity. “It is totally unnecessary for political parties to engage themselves in the campaign of violence. We urge aspirants, political leaders, followers and the general public to be civil and peaceful in their activities. POLL “Campaigns should be issue-based and not aimed at attacks on persons or institutions. We should imbibe the spirit of Omoluabi that the founding fathers of the State displayed during their era. “We also want to place all the security agencies on alert as to the activities of politicians in the State. There should no sacred cow, anybody found culpable of inciting members of the public should be arrested and made to face the law. “We also want to warn students not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to cause trouble and disrupt the peace of the State. “Our organisations are not known for violence and we shall not tolerate any politician or individual who wants to use students or youths of the State to disrupt the peace of the State. The entire students of the State will resist any attempt by anyone to destroy Ogun State,” the statement noted in categorical terms.