All Progressives Congress National Leader & major presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, urges Nigerians to embrace religious tolerance to ensure lasting peace and stability in the country. He also promised to address the reward system if elected president so that party members could get due recognition for their efforts. These were the highlights of Asiwaju Tinubu’s discussion with APC delegates in Adamawa and Taraba states when he interfaced with them in light of the forthcoming primaries of the party. -Advertisement- The APC leader first visited Yola, Adamawa State, where he paid a courtesy call on Lamido Adamawa, Alhaji Barkindo Aliyu Mustapha. This courtesy visit was after the turbaning of APC chieftain, Dr. Mahmood Halilu Ahmad, as Sarki Gabas Adamawa, and the party’s National Vice Chairman (North-east), Comrade Mustapha Salihu, as Sa’i Adamawa, by the royal father. Addressing APC delegates in Yola, Tinubu sought their support in his pursuit of the party’s presidential nomination. During the meeting, he laid out a clear and convincing case for the top office and explained that he has the experience, skill and vision to lead Nigeria to its better future. He promised to make the party proud and deliver on his promises to further improve security, bring employment and create greater economic opportunities if given the party’s ticket and elected president. The APC Secretary in the state, Dr. Raymond Chidamma, spoke about Asiwaju Tinubu’s contributions to the rebirth of democracy after long years of military rule and his record as governor of Lagos who reformed the state, making it a leading economy in Africa. POLL In Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, the APC leader urged party members to resolve their differences and forge a united front, stating that unity was key to victory in the state. “You must resolve your differences and put your house in order. We will work with you on this. One important thing you need is unity of purpose,’’ he said. Recalling some of the great citizens of the states with whom he served in the Senate, he mentioned late Senator U.J Yohanna whom he described as a detribalised Nigerian who worked hard for Nigeria’s democracy. Seeking the support of the delegates for the upcoming primary election, Tinubu urged them to see him as their partner and have confidence in him and his abilities.