Iran’s latest wave of widespread anti-government, which began five days ago, continued yesterday, May 14, despite the heavy presence of security forces and frequent internet disruptions. Numerous reports online suggest that an unknown number of protesters have been killed and many arrested. In Neishabur, the second-largest city in the northeastern province of Razavi Khorasan, protesters gathered at 10am and chanted “[President] Raisi: have some shame and resign from the government!” Videos of this demonstraiton posted online show security forces appearing to arrest protestors. And in Quchan, in the same province, protestors marched and chanted against skyrocketing prices for food and other necessities. In Boroujen, in the southwestern province of Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari, protesters also denounced rising prices while videos of other protests in the same province, posted online, show the demonstrators inviting all “honorable” citizens to support the movement. -Advertisement- The fifth night of protests in Boroujen in Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari province Protests also broke out in in Hafshejan and Sureshjan, two other cities in Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari, where according to one tweet a protester by the name of Saadat Hadipour was shot and killed in Hafshejan. Protests in Sureshjan in the province of Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari And in Shahrekord, the capital of Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari province, and despite the heavy presence security forces, protesters for a third consecutive night took to the streets and chanted slogans against the leaders of the Islamic Republic. Internet access in Iran has been disrupted since the protests began, with widepsread slow-downs reported and many social media users saying online that opening and watching videos has become impossible. Net Blocks, a watchdog organization that monitors cybersecurity and internet service, confirmed that “an internet disruption has been registered in Iran with high impact to provider MobinNet.” POLL The names of three protesters, killed in Farsan in Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari and in Dezful and Andimeshk in Khuzestan, have been released, as have the names of tens of protesters who have been arrested. Ahmad Avaei, Dezful’s representative to Parliament, confirmed that one protesters in that city has been killed. He did not provide any details. As of May 13, Iranian officials had confirmed that at least 22 protesters in various cities had been arrested. No update on arrests since then has been announced. Reports on social media published yesterday, however, suggest that security forces in the city of Suq, in the southwestern province of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad, arrested seven people; Hojatollah Ghandi, Enayat Taghavi, Rasoul Mousavi, Saadat Taghavi, Majid Masoudi, Salman Hemmatian and Mahna Gorgi. During the arrest of Enayat Taghavi, his father Gordafrid Taghavi, a veteran of the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, who had lost a leg in that conflict, was beaten by security forces. A veteran of the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war, Gordafrid Taghavi, who lost a leg during the war, was beaten in the city of Suq, Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province, as security forces arrested his son Enayat Security agents have also arrested dozens of people in Khuzestan province ofer the past severl days. The names of around 40 of these people have been published by the Telegram cannel Khak Zadegan. Videos of small demonstrations in Tehran were also posted online in recent days but their authenticity has yet to be established.