***My Arrest Politically Motivated, Says Accused ABUJA – A civil society organization, National Liberty and Justice Movement (NLJM), has expressed outrage over the decision of the Police to suddenly release one Engr. Sunday Oche, a Benue House of Representatives aspirant, by the Nigeria Police, few hours after his arrest in Otukpo, describing it as “unfortunate and an attempt to rape justice.” Oche, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue South was arrested and detained by the Nigeria Police, for committing forgery and perjury. -Advertisement- This was even as the accused has refuted the claims, saying that his arreste was politically motivated to scuttle his 2023 ambition. Engr. Oche who seeks to represent Ado/Okpokwu/Ogbadibo Federal Constituency of Benue State, was tracked early hours of Sunday at Double K resort, Otukpo, and was immediately whisked away to Abuja where he was detained at the Force headquarters till night. He was, however, released on bail by the Police around 8pm Sunday night after much interventions from his party’s stakeholders. Comrade Wisdom Adeleye, national secretary of the NLJM, who spoke in Abuja Monday night, warned the law enforcement agency against being suppressed by the pressure from politicians in the area. “We are very much aware of this case and we shall join the suit. Our lawyers have been briefed and they shall apply to join the suit as we await the arraignment of Mr. Sunday Oche. The same way we monitored the case of Hon. Gololo in Bauchi, we shall be actively involved in this, to ensure justice is served. The Police should not allow pressure from any powerful politician to suppress them. The entire world is watching”, Adeleye said. POLL It was gathered that, Oche’s arrest was predicated upon a petition submitted at Zone 7 Police Headquarters, Abuja and addressed to the Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) in charge of the Zone on the 19th April, 2022, by one Mr. Michael Unogwu, who was the APC candidate for House of Representatives in the 2019 general elections. The Chief Magistrate Court, Bwari, subsequently ordered his arrest, investigation and arraignment following the determination by the party that the accused indeed forged the letter of withdrawal and also the court affidavit. Comrade Austin Agada, the Benue State Chairman of APC, also confirmed the development to our reporter via telephone conversation Sunday night. Reacting to the development, Mr. Lawrence Oduh, Director, Media and Publicity of Sunday Oche Campaign Organization, said the arrest was politically motivated, saying the issue was laid to rest 4 years ago. “When we presented our case to the National Secretariat through the state secretariat, it was resolved and they brought a form for substitution that had a provision where Hon. Sunny Oche will sign an agreement that he is replacing the latter who had already consented to the said letter and agreed to be substituted. “What is Hon. Oche’s crime in this matter and why a matter that was laid to rest since 2018 be brought to this stage? Hon. Sunny Oche does not work at INEC nor is privy to their documents other than the ones made available by law to candidates of the said elections”, Oduh added.