P/HARCOURT – The general manager of BUA Ports and Terminal Limited, Port Harcourt, Mohammed Ibrahim, said that the BUA group of companies is at home in Rivers State for business. Speaking during a courtesy visit by Energy and Maritime Reporters (EMR) in Port Harcourt, Rivers state last week, the general manager described the business environment in Rivers State as “very conducive”, citing good road infrastructure, especially within the period of the last administration in the state and the present administration. He, however, pointed out that there are challenges of inappropriate demands from communities and unauthorised government agencies. -Advertisement- “These are normal things”, he, said, adding: “but since we have come to sit here permanently, we have also built up a team that’s able to manage all these challenges either from communities or from government agencies coming to ask for one thing or the other, or from even people who pretend to be from government.” The GM advised those in the habit of cooking up demands to desist from creating tension where it is not necessary, but rather appreciate what businesses such as BUA’s have come to do in the state, adding that the BUA group is on ground in the state and stands up appropriately to different task forces enforcing different demands. According to him, illegitimate harassment is sometimes encountered and is more common in the Niger Delta region than elsewhere in the country. He cited the case of titled chiefs confronting the company to complain about ships destroying their community’s fishing nets. For counsel, he said: “Here, there are basic things to understand. Water channels are common user channels and government has right of way over such channels. You don’t set fishing nets along common user channels where vessels on international voyages will pass.” POLL Ibrahim suggested the need for reorientation of the people on attitude towards businesses. “They should see businesses as partners in progress, offering great opportunities to their people and developing their place. “Lagos is doing well in terms of business because we don’t have these types of challenges there like we have here. But, with proper orientation, people will know that these companies that are coming are bringing positive economic development to the state.” He also commended the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, for often cautioning communities against disrupting company activities. “That attitude will change a lot of things”, he said. “We’re at home in Rivers State, that’s why we are standing and doing more.” BUA, he said, generates a lot of employment opportunities, both directly and indirectly and is wholly a Nigerian company with many subsidiaries. Apart from its ports and terminal operations which handle bulk cargo, BUA also runs flour mills, produces pasta, spaghetti, semolina and other flour-based products. It also owns sugar plants in Rivers and other states, owns a petroleum refinery and a cement factory which is in Edo State, while it is putting up a POP (Plaster of Paris) plant at Makoba in Rivers State to cater for the building, pharmaceutical and orthopedic industries.