The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has vowed to dislodge Governor Dapo Abiodun of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from power in Ogun State at the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The Ogun State Chairman of the party, Olaposi Oginni stated this in Abeokuta, the state capital, while presenting the governorship candidate of the party to the media. Oginni said the party is in a better position to provoke a change of power in the state leveraging on the “political tsunami” currently sweeping through Kano State, where members of the APC are defecting to the party. -Advertisement- Oginni stated this when Olujobi Ezekiel Fayoyin, was presented to the media to express his intention to run for the office of the Ogun state governor on the platform of the Party. Oginni said, “We are going to dislodge the government of Dapo Abiodun and come may 29, 2023, the governor on the platform of NNPP shall be sworn in as the next governor of Ogun state. “Ogun state is next to start experiencing the political tsunami that is sweeping through Kano state. As I’m talking to you hundreds of members of APC are dumping their party and joining us in Kano state. “In Ogun state by 2023, history is going to repeat itself, as our candidate is going to defeat an incumbent governor. “We are going to change the narrative of Ogun State politics. Fayoyin is one out of the three governorship aspirants that we have under the platform of our party in Ogun state. I want to say emphatically, that is we are presenting the best candidate to the people of Ogun state. POLL “We are going to change the change, governor Dapo Abiodun should be writing his handover note because we are going to sweep the state. This is a party that has come to rescue Ogun state and we are coming to give Ogun state a new lease of life, a new Ogun state is possible with our party”. While speaking to the media, the aspirant vowed to tackle kidnapping, cultism, ritual killings and other insecurity challenges confronting the state if elected as the governor. Fayoyin, a 35-year-old businessman pledged to build a new Ogun where “all youths are gainfully employed or at least have something good to do”. He maintained that his focus would be on security, youth and women empowerment, sports development and infrastructure.