BENIN – A don, Prof. DavId Osikhe­na Umoru, has called on the Federal Government to put an end to the devaluation of naira. Umoru, a Professor of Applied Monetary and Fi­nancial Economics in the Department of Art, Man­agement and Social Scienc­es, Edo State University, Uzairue, said there had to be production for export before contemplating devaluing the naira. He said the Nigerian gov­ernment must put an end to naira devaluation, which was anchored on the fact that the naira exchange rate management was not a topic of probability. -Advertisement- Prof Umoru made the call while delivering the Edo State University Uzairue 4th Inaugural Lecture se­ries titled “Devaluation of Naira, Shocks, and Reali­ties: Evidence Disciplining Strength”. He said: “There has to be production for export before contemplating devaluing Naira, hence, the Nigerian government must disagree with the conditionalities of the IMF authorities and in­sists on non-devaluation of the naira. “The central monetary authority must not forget that the exchange rate is ba­sically a price and in view of the collapse of oil price at the global market; auxilia­ry devaluation of the Naira would only lower the pur­chasing power of the final consumers and afterwards exacerbate the economic life of Nigerians,” Umoru said. He also noted that the Ni­gerian economy was fiscally overriding notwithstanding money being an integral part of all macroeconomic variables. He pointed out that in­consistent macroeconomic policies are detriment to the real effective Naira-Dollar exchange rate and to employ­ment generation. POLL He urged Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure that fiscal and monetary policies do cooperate rather than entering into a conflict with each other in the short run. “Nigerian political forces, illicit forex traders and col­laborators with foreign in­terest would not totally give way to market forces when it comes to Naira/Dollar ex­change rate determination as they continually hype the market by manipulating the parallel rate. “I have regard for the to­tality of the prevailing mac­ro-economic and financial outlooks of the Nigerian economy. And this has made me to foresee a Nigerian state of affairs where the Naira would be exchanged at N2000 for one US Dollar. “To save the value of the Naira, the Federal Govern­ment has to tenaciously work against a buildup of the underlying fundamentals of the Nigerian economy. This entails managing unfriend­ly economic indicators in a downward direction. “This indicator includes, inflation rate, interest rate, debt stock and unemploy­ment,” he said.