Pastor ‘Tunde Bakare, Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, on Monday said he was a devout Muslim and had read Qur’an from cover to cover, noting that no portion of it justifies killing. The presidential hopeful on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) condemned the killing of Deborah Samuel, a 200-level student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, by Muslim extremists over alleged blasphemy. In a statement, the pastor called for unity and respect for humanity in the country, stressing that it was with deep distress that he received the news of the gruesome killing of Deborah Samuel, pointing out that no human being should be subjected to such inhumanity by fellow humans. -Advertisement- “As a nation of diverse peoples and cultures, there are available institutional mechanisms for resolving sensitive conflicts and no matter the provocation, no person under our laws has the right to take laws into their own hands. “As one who was a devout Muslim and who read the Qur’an from cover to cover, what was done to Deborah Samuel is nowhere justified in the religion of peace that was handed down to me by my grandfather who was the first Chief Imam of Iporo Sodeke Mosque in Abeokuta. “My deep condolences go to the family of Deborah Samuel and I pray that we all find in God the comfort and fortitude to bear this great loss”, he said. Bakare added that when he heard of the unrest that broke out in Sokoto after the arrest of some persons involved in the act, he immediately placed a call to Bishop Matthew Kukah to guarantee that he was safe and he (Kukah) assured me that, contrary to the news making the rounds in some quarters, that his residence and the cathedral were not set ablaze. “He further told me that the governor of Sokoto State, Governor Aminu Tambuwal, swiftly intervened and dispatched security men to his residence and cathedral to prevent any mob attack,” he said. POLL The statement further read, “This is commendable and I trust that the institutions of state will be fully deployed to restore law and order, to ensure that justice is done and to address the underlying issues that this sad incident has once again brought to the fore. “I also appeal to the good people of Sokoto State to remember the tolerance and hospitality that they have always been known for. As a child, I lived in Sokoto State. When my father travelled up North in the 1950’s from Abeokuta in search of a market for his kola-nut produce, he was warmly received by the people of Sokoto State. “So hospitable were the people that my father settled in Sokoto for a period and invested in cotton farms in Shagari village. Though he was Yoruba, my father was given the nickname ‘Sanni Arewa’ by the very friendly people of Sokoto. Such unity and tolerance should remain our true identity as a people”. According to the Pastor, the horrifyingly wicked killing of Deborah Samuel is a wake-up call for everyone to once again reflect on common humanity and reject every form of savagery. “We must all, at this time, set aside our differences, be they religious, ethnic or political differences, and come together to say ‘Never again should this happen to any Nigerian’”, he said. Court Remands Suspected Killers Of Deborah Defended By 34 Lawyers Sokoto police on Monday arraigned two suspects, Bilyaminu Aliyu and Aminu Hukunci, over the killing of Deborah Samuel, a 200-level Home Economics student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, on May 12. Deborah was lynched to death and her remains subsequently set ablaze by her fellow students over alleged blasphemy. The suspects, co-students of the deceased, were arraigned at a Sokoto Chief Magistrates’ Court for their alleged participation in the crime. They pleaded not guilty to the crime. Prosecuting Inspector Khalil Musa told the court that an investigation was in progress as Deborah’s corpse was still in a morgue at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital, Sokoto. Leading a team of 34 lawyers, the defence counsel, Prof. Mansur Ibrahim, applied for their bail on liberal terms, citing constitutional provisions and sections of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law. The trial judge (name withheld for security reasons) reserved the ruling on the bail application and ordered the accused to be remanded at a correctional centre.