Imagine being a parent, waking up to your children in the morning and seeing them walk out on you, going about their business without any form of acknowledgment or greeting? You feel unappreciated, in spite of your sacrifices towards their upbringing. This is an apt illustration of human ungratefulness to God. O COME, let us sing unto the Lord: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. (Psalm 95:2) These are the beloved of God calling out to each other to sing, worship and reference God in his magnificence and splendor. The existence of man is not by accident, science of evolution or whatever nonsense the world will have you believe, rather it is a divinely orchestrated process by God himself. It is a miracle, which must continuously be appreciated. Regardless of your wealth, life cannot be bought nor negotiated. Therefore, as long as you breathe, you have the most priceless and invaluable gift ever, and a valid reason to offer him thanks. A local proverb says a child who appreciates the good deed of yesterday is poised to receive another, and this is universally true assertion, even with God. An appreciative heart will never be in lack of blessings. It is common to see entertainers sing the praise of wealthy individuals, either to coerce them for gratification or just to reference them. Either way, these wealthy individuals end up paying back in cash and kind. Such is the after effect of praise and thanksgiving. When you arrive the sanctuary of God, keep your worries behind, put your mind at rest, whatever your dilemma, present it before him, but first with praise and thanks, it is the key that unlocks the door of solutions to all we seek and pray for (Philippians 4:6-7) we must always radiate cheerfulness, not minding our present predicament (1Thesssalonians 5:18). Present unto him a heart that is joyful, a mouth of songs, and legs of dancing (Psalm 100:4). In the process, God’s heart will be at peace with yours and perfectly poised to grant any supplication you ask of him. -Advertisement- 2 Chronicles 20:21-26 gives an example of the effect of thanksgiving, when the efficacy of casting and binding wanes, open your mouth in thanksgiving. Prayers will get you noticed by God, but thanksgiving will get you his unalloyed attention, move his hand and soothe his mind, which will result in endless outpour of answers to requests and blessings. Beloved, in happy times, give thanks, in sad times too give thanks. Whatever the situation, however enormous the problem or dire the circumstance, it isn’t beyond the power of praise. Praise him in the morning, praise him in the night. Thank him for everything and anything, and watch his blessings cascade on you. Have a great week ahead, God bless. Fellowship with us at The Saint’s Gospel Church of Christ, Hand of Fire Bus Stop, Shadow Tabernacle Close, Ikotun/Igando, Road, Lagos. Website: www.tsgcchandoffire-ng.com, Facebook “Jacob Shodeinde”.