UMUAHIA – As aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC), vie for the House of Representatives and Senate primaries on Friday, an aspirant for Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South Federal Constituency, Chief Nduka Anyanwu, has been described as wicked propaganda the rumour that he had stepped down for a particular aspirant in the constituency. He declared that he was still in the race and will not step down for any aspirant “because I’m popular and the likely aspirant to be nominated as the party’s flag bearer for the Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South constituency in 2023 elections”. Briefing newsman at the venue of the primary election in Umuahia South on Saturday, Anyanwau who described himself as a seasoned administrator and businessman explained that he came out openly to debunk the rumour following calls and text messages from his numerous supporters who had wanted to know the position as regards his candidature of the constituency. -Advertisement- “I’m in the race”, he insisted, pointing out that “I came out to participate in the direct primary election today because it is the decision of our national headquarters to do so. You can see, APC members in Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South today voted for me en masse,” he enthused. The aspirant described the primary for the constituency as credible and peaceful, adding that he felt humbled and happy to be elected as flag bearer for APC in the 2023 election. On what he intends to achieve if elected to the Green Chamber, Anyanwu who said he is a founding member of APC opined that he will encourage a leadership style that will make Abia a model state in Nigeria making good laws for the country. “I’ll bring my business ingenuity to bear in the state. Abia will witness rapid and accelerated development that will be engineered by the sound progressive ideology that will be hinged on selflessness and patriotism. “The process you’ve just witnessed, that’s the direct primary election as against the delegate or indirect method, is what our National headquarters asked all states to do. And as good party men and women, we in Ikwuano/Umuhaia did exactly what the APC leadership asked us to do”, he asserted. POLL In the primary election held, Anyanwu scored 3,857 votes while his closest rival, Mrs Marlene Onyeocha scored votes five votes.