ORE – Youth leaders of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and union leaders in Ondo State have endorsed the re-election bid of the incumbent representative, Honourable Abiola Peter Makinde, Member of the House of Representatives, representing Ondo East and West Federal Constituency. During a meeting held at the Party Secretariat of the APC in Ondo West on Tuesday, May 3, which had in attendance Youth Leaders of the Party in the Constituency, Union Representatives such as NURTW, Student Union Government of the Adeyemi College of Education, FOESU and Tricycle among others, representatives from these unions mutually and collectively endorsed the Federal lawmaker for a second term in office as they explained that their decision was informed by the fact that he has performed creditably well since his assumption into office, especially in terms of youth inclusiveness and empowerment of the populace at large. They maintained that the achievements of the Hon. Abiola Makinde-led representation are largely unprecedented which has in no small measure repositioned the region for better growth and development. -Advertisement- While also commending the lawmaker for his sterling performance, he was also urged to raise the bar higher as he has already carved a niche of excellence and brilliance for himself. Speaking at the event, Hon. Makinde while appreciating the Union Leaders and their various Representatives described the endorsement as a call for more action. According to him, more than ever, he is well motivated and charged to deliver more for his people, especially at the grassroots level. In his words, “My electoral promises was simple and it’s built on ensuring that the people get the best of democratic processes through qualitative representation which I am most passionate about. POLL “What we have done so far is little compared to what we have planned for the constituency and I believe that with your support to ensuring the continuity of this representation, we will definitely have more to rejoice about,” he added. “Our first term campaign mantra was WEALTH meaning Water, Education, Agriculture, Light, Training and Health. For our second term, the ‘E’ would not only mean Education, Empowerment and Entertainment is also added to it. Then we would also intensify other aspects of our campaign mantra which has seen Ondo witnessed astronomical developments through our representation.”