In an effort to end Open Defecation (ODF), in the nation’s capital, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has announced plans to build 10,000 public toilets at strategic sites. Dr Mohammed Dan-Hassan, Director of the FCT Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASSA), revealed this on Monday during a public awareness campaign on the dangers of open defecation in the territory. According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari has declared an emergency on water sanitation and hygiene in the country in 2018, signalling the end of open defecation across the 36 states of the federation, including the FCT. -Advertisement- Dan-Hassan explained that in the actualization of the president’s directives, the construction of the toilets is one of the roadmaps to end open defecation in the territory by 2025 which is in consonance with the Federal and global targets. He said, “There is an Executive Order 009 which in 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari launched an emergency on water Sanitation and hygiene which means declaration all over the country on hygiene, so FCT is not an exception. “Our agency, RUWASSA which is responsible for all these, with the support from donor agencies and development partners, 10,000 public toilets will be constructed in strategic locations in the territory” The Director stated that the toilets would bring about improvement in safe water and sanitation in every locality in the city. He said about 29 per cent to 30 per cent of the FCT population practice open defecation, and there was a need for massive construction of public toilets to halt the situation which is a threat to the well being of the residents. POLL Dan-Hassan explained that the agency was not only going to construct the toilets but would ensure that there was a behavioural change among the residents. “When the facilities are there, the people should use them properly, by maintaining them. The people must have a change of attitude about public toilets12 considering the importance” He said.