The Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Institute of Peace and Conflicts Resolution (IPCR), and other international affairs analysts have proffered solutions to democratic issues in Nigeria and Africa generally. The International Affairs Analysts such as Professor Femi Otubanjo, Associate Professor Efrem Ubi, Professor Warisu Alli, Professor Victor Adetula, Professor Habu Mohammad, Professor Kolawole Ogundowole, and others spoke at a conference on Democratic consolidation and the resurgence of military coups in Africa, organised by the NIIA in Lagos. The Director-General, NIIA, Professor Eghosa Osaghae advocated for more democracy as there cannot never be less democracy for the growth and development of the nation, just as he acknowledged the existence of problems but stated that they can be addressed by democracy. -Advertisement- Osaghae explained the timeliness of the conference even as he reiterated that problems are not just analyzed but solutions provided. According to him, “There are problems and these problems can be solved by democracy. The conference is very timely and we are pleased to open this discussion so that we don’t only analyze what the problem is but also provide or suggest solutions. “There can only be more democracy and more democracy. There can never be less democracy.” Representative of the IPCR, Mr Andrew Gwaza noted the need for democracy to be indigenous as it must be important to what is concerned to the people. Gwaza explained that it must resonate with the affairs and yearnings of the people, as well as involve the youth in the democratic governance of the country for the preservation of democracy. POLL “There is a need for democracy to be indigenous. It must be important to what is concerned to the people. It must resonate with the affairs and yearnings of the people. The youth must be involved in the democratic governance of the country for the preservation of democracy,” he added. Dean at School of Post Graduate Studies, University of Jos, Professor Warisu Alli defined democracy as an idea about governance, which suggests that the management of the affairs of the people should involve the people and that they should have access to information, freedom to participate in the affairs concerning them. Alli condemned the presidential system as having driven enormous powers to the President, which allows them to descend into being totalitarian. He, therefore, suggested a cursory look at the working of the presidential system, noting that the parliamentary system should be adopted. Professor of International Relations & Development Studies at the University of Jos, Prof Victor Adetula advocated for a genuine civil society for the entrenchment of democracy, saying that civil society is not virile and that it lacks capacity. He stated that democracy is fragmented and factionalized and unable to align appropriately, adding, “We need a civil society that is genuine for democracy. Civil society is not virile. It lacks the capacity.