BENIN – Chief Lucky Imasuen, a former Deputy Governor of Edo State on Tuesday declared his intention to run for the Edo South Senatorial district on the platform of the All Progressives Congress ( APC). Imasuen, while declaring his intention, said that he is seeking the senatorial seat to fight for equity, fair play and Justice on matters concerning Edo South senatorial district. He said that if elected as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he will galvanize all available human and material resources both local, national, and international to jumpstart a social and economic revival and development of the Edo South Senatorial district. -Advertisement- According to him, “flowing from my indept knowledge of Edo South Senatorial district and the issues circumscribing the quality of life, I will articulate a comprehensive legislative list legislative agenda that encompasses critical challenges facing the people in the order of priority if I have the privilege of becoming Edo South Senator. “The documents will be derived from the needs of the people at the grassroots and would be updated periodically to reflect new developments. “Each item on the agenda will be facilitated through due legislative processes as bills or resolutions while the needful will be done to form coalitions around them in order to ensure successful debate and passage on the floor of the Senate. “This process demands hard work, intellect, diligence, personality influence and affability and you can rest assured that I am ready for the job” Chief Imasuen, while assuring the people of his adequate representation if elected a Senator, promised to vigorously intervene in infrastructure building by identifying social and economic deficits in the constituency, particularly in the four rural local government areas of the senatorial district and lobby for potentially impactful projects into the annual national budget. POLL “If elected as a Senator, I will serve as a strong voice for the constituents by projecting their social and economic concerns and threats with audacity for urgent national attention and intervention. “For instance, the State of insecurity is seriously threatening food production in Edo State and in this regard, | am aligned with some security experts who have advocated for the establishment of State and Community Police as a solution to the security challenges in our land. “I am not unmindful of the genuine fears expressed about the subject of potential abuses of a State Police outfit but I am confident that adequate safeguards will be put in place to effectively checkmate abusive deployment of such an outfit when established. “We cannot achieve social and economic resurgence in our rural communities in an atmosphere of fear and insecurity,” he said. Imansuen also noted that the Senate has the constitutional responsibility of screening presidential nominees for important appointments such as Ministers, Ambassadors etc and promised that if eventually elected senator, he will sponsor a bill, making it mandatory for the President to submit the Ministerial list of nominees along with the Ministeries they are to be appointed. This, he said, will enable nominees to be grilled in line with their proposed ministries, adding that the purpose is to ensure a square peg in a square hole thereby ensuring better delivery of service to Nigerians. “As a senator, | will work assiduously to ensure that the law setting up the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is property interpreted and implemented to the letter. “The public has been made to believe that the managing director of the Board of NDDC is exclusively reserved for the four mayor Oil Producing States to the exclusion of others and this is one of the anomalies I will fight to ensure equity, fairness and Justice” he declared.