UYO – One of the frontline governorship aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Sen Ita Enang says he intends to fight drug abuse among the youths when he becomes Governor. Enang,  currently serving as Senior Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta Affairs also intends to improve human capital development and enhance agriculture to boost food production if elected Governor in 2023. Enang who made these pledges when he consulted the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Akwa Ibom State Council in Uyo on Monday said his wealth of experience and exposure, having traversed significant pubic offices has made him most qualified for the job. -Advertisement- The all-round lawmaker who berated Akwa Ibom State government for its alleged inability to attract funds beyond federal allocation, says he would deploy his connection and work hand in hand with the Federal government to attract more dividends of democracy to the state. In his words; “Human capital development will be my priority especially as it concerns skills. I will declare emergency on youth development especially on the fight against drug abuse. I will engage in building schools and citizens will be given equal preference. I will not be a ruler and a visiting Governor, but will reside in the State”, he said. “I will prioritize Agriculture and will run the state from the money coming from the Federal government because I know how to attract funds to the State.” “Akwa Ibom people should not vote for PDP again because they have nothing to offer other than continuity in doing nothing. Akwa Ibom State is under the bondage of unemployment, home insufficiently and not going extra mile because the government of the state does not relate with the Federal government.” The Presidential Aide who reported to have led many fights toward the development of the state, attracted two federal institutions of higher learning and secured a legal status for the University of Uyo, challenged journalists in the state to get other aspirants to present their track records. POLL “The slogan of my campaign is “Jubilee” because the people of Akwa Ibom State will regain freedom. We are coming to redeem Akwa Ibom State and bring back its lost glory. I have faced bullets for a long time and over came them for the interest of the State “For the record purposes, I have  been a  Student Union President, Councilor, House of Assembly member, member House of Representatives, Senator and Adviser to the President  I am contesting this election on the context of my achievements and track records. Ask other Aspirants to tell you their track records when they consult NUJ. “For many times I have led many fights in defense of the people of Akwa Ibom State. I join in the fight for the abolition of the Onshore, Offshore dichotomy in the State. I am not a stranger in Akwa Ibom State but a man preserved by God to take over the leadership at this time.” “I have brought tertiary institutions, electrification, roads  and other development project to the state without asking for gratification. I attracted the 180 Billion Calabar- Itu road project. I am the only voice who speaks justice for Akwa Ibom State dispite all odds.” “I  will improve upon what Attah and Akpabio have done,  but I will not continue on the footsteps of Udom Emmanuel’s governance style”, he said. He urged Akwa Ibom NUJ to remain objective in their reportage and promote only aspirants who would bring good governance to the state. Responding, Comrade Amos Etuk, NUJ Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Council thanked the governorship aspirant for having confident in the union and promised to remain apolitical to all aspirants,  and to continue to propagate the message of good governance to  enable Akwa Ibom people make well informed choices. Dignateries on Enang’s entourage were; Chief Otu Ita Toyo, former People’s Democratic Party Chairman and APC chieftain, Dr Effiong Etuk, APC stalwart and Mr David Ekanem former APC state chairman among others.