The nation’s stock market witnessed profit taking during the period under review, thereby halting the five consecutive weeks of Bull Run, as prices of many equities pulled back, especially blue chip stocks that had rallied recently. The key performance index NGXASI closed marginally lower on a very high traded volume and negative breadth, amid the selling sentiment across some sectors, while there were positions taking in insurance, industrial goods and others as sector and portfolio rotation continued. Despite profit booking, the high priced stocks that control the 70% of market capitalization, pushed the index to breakout 2007 highs and tested 53,774.61 before pulling back on selling pressure to trade above its 7 day moving average in a very high volume transacted. Just as the share prices of Consolidated Hallmark Insurance, Living Trust, May & Baker were adjusted for dividends of 2kobo, 6kobo and 30kobo recommended by their boards. -Advertisement- As we have always said that market correction, pullbacks and profit takers are stock market dynamics and patterns every investors and traders should understand and have strategy to hedge against it. And also profit from these market movements at any given time. So, the trading strategy, against further market decline is to positioned in strong group stocks and sectors to take advantage of bullish trend too. The benefits of hedging are great, but the secret to making money for the long term is not profitable hedging. Hedging enables you to reduce your draw dooms in bear markets, so you have a bigger account size to grow when the correction or pullback are over. Hedging against inflation or down markets also enables you to be active in the market when the movement turns up, so you don’t miss the next bull market because you did not know when to get in. Here, let me make it clear, I am not suggesting that you should buy and hold though a bear market (even if you have a hedge). In many bear markets, just as our market is trying to correct from the recent Bull Run, there are often sectors within the market that are in good tradable bullish trends at this different season or market cycle. POLL In the market today, there have been sectors of the market that have done well. So this strategy works in bull and bear markets. In fact, this strategy is up with two to three-digit year to date returns right now. The strategy is constantly creating new big trend trades. Simply put, the strategy is to be invested in the market-leading sectors at the right time. Being in the right sector at the right time is often the difference between your profitable having the great year or year filled with losses. As all eyes are on MPC meeting outcome next week, the possibility of rate hike is slim, despite the global central banks rate hike trend, Japan left their rates unchanged and increase stimulus to support their economy in the face of rising global inflation as a result of Ukraine and Russia conflict or war. China in all these cut rates as it prepares to reopen some of its provinces that were locked down due to covid-19 resurgence. This has also contributed to surge in crude oil price during the week. The trading strategies that will help you build wealth and navigate this current market trend include Learning and understanding how to use specific technical analysis tools. Investdata Technical Toolbox makes it easier for you to understand and use them effectively to enhance your trading results and bottom line. Try and get them, if you have not made an order. Movement Of NGXASI It was a bearish week, as the NGX index recorded four trading session of down markets and one that closed north due to price appreciation in MTNN as it hit new 52 weeks high of N270 on Thursday before pulling back on profit taking. The week trading opened on a negative note, to short lived the previous day uptrend as index lost 0.21% on Monday, which was extended on Tuesday and midweek when the market pulled back further by 0.48% and 0.07% respectively. There was a rebound on Thursday, with the market closing 1.05% higher on strong buying interests in the industrial goods and telecoms sectors. This trend was reversed on Friday as the index drop by 0.55%, bringing the week’s total loss to 0.22%, compared to the previous week’s 4.25% gain. As market players cash out their gains from the market rallied, market capitalization also so lost N64 billion to slow down the uptrend and recovery. This price correction dragged market indicators southward, with year-to-date return reducing to 24.03%, as a result of selling sentiment in value, and growth stocks. Smart money entering the equity space has slowdown as institutional investors digest the nation macroeconomic data and expected outcome of MPC meeting as regard rate hike or not, as they await to see the direction of rates in the midst of rising inflation and other geopolitical concern, regardless of the low participation of foreign investors in the market, according to the Nigerian Exchange report. This means that domestic portfolios investments are on the rise. Consequently, the composite index lost 118.58 basis points to close the week at 52,979.96 bps, after touching an intra-week low of 52,717.88 bps, from its highs of 53,774.61bps. Recall that the week opened with the index at 53,098.46bps, just as market capitalisation fell by N64 billion, closing at N28.56tr, from the previous week’s N28.63tr, which also represented a 0.22% value loss. During the week of profit taking and relatively selloffs, low and medium cap stocks rallied to dominate the top advancers table, amid selling sentiment and repositioning of portfolios ahead of MPC meeting and march yearend accounts, as investors are taking advantage of pullbacks and high earnings yields to accumulate positions. Market breadth for the week turn negative, as losers outnumbered gainers in the ratio of 37:42 on selling sentiments, as revealed by the investor sentiment report showing 75% ‘sell’ volume and 25% buy position. Money Flow Index was up at 57.47bps from the previous week’s 55.28 points, an indication that funds enter the market on a weekly chart to confirm the inflow of funds into equities, while on daily time frame money flow is looking down to revealed that funds had left the market on profit taking. The NGX index’s action remains strong on a weekly time frame, but pulling back on the daily charts, trade above the ‘T’ line on inverted hammer candlestick formation that signal reversal of an uptrend after testing a major strong resistance levels of 53,774.61 points on a very high traded volume to remain above the 20- and 50- day moving average to reveal strength. The candlestick formation, at the end of the week, showed that the market is losing it fuel or momentum, as players digest the Q1 numbers already released, macrocosmic data and other factors ahead of MPC meeting outcome to reposition their portfolios for Q2 earnings seasons. The candlestick pattern indicates a possible price correction or continuation of the trend, depending on market forces in the new week as last Friday’s trading pattern revealed sellers are in control. Mixed Sectoral Indices Sectorial performance indexes for the week were mixed, as NGX Insurance and Energy indexes closed higher by 3.63% and 0.30% respectively, while NGX Banking led the decliners, after losing 1.24%, followed by Consumer and Industrial Goods with 0.98% and 0.61% respectively. Activities in volume and value terms were up as players exchanged 3.02bn shares worth N31.78bn, compared to the previous week’s 1.82bn units valued at N27.19bn. Volume was driven by Financial Services, Conglomerates, and Consumer goods, especially by trades in FCMB, Jaiz Bank, Transcorp Plc, GTCO and International Breweries. McNichols and Transcorp Hotel were the best-performing stocks during the week, gaining 58.96% and 20.70% respectively, closing at N2.13 and N5.89 per share on bonus issue of one for eight and market forces. On the flip side, Royal Exchange Assurance and Academy Press lost 25.49% and 18.54% respectively, at N1.14and N1.23 per share, purely on profit-taking. Outlook for the week We expect a mixed trend on market reaction to Presco impressive results, March yearend earnings expectation and outcome of MPC meeting next week. As market players continued to digest Q4 and Q1 corporate earnings and economic data to reposition their portfolios for Q2 earnings season. Also, investors and traders continue reacting to the earnings power, as the revaluation of quoted companies on their earnings performance and growth prospects continue. We note that income investors have sustained buying into interim dividend-paying stocks. Meanwhile, the home study packs on Comprehensive Stock Market trading course video, Stock Market Analysis Beyond Fundamental & Technical Analysis, 2022 Actionable Trading Plan and Opportunities in Q1, INVEST 2022 Traders & Investors Summit materials and 10 Golden Stocks for 2022, Strategies and How to invest profitably in this Changing Market Dynamics/ Recession, Mastering Earnings Season For Profitable Investing and Trading in any market situation/ cycles, Life Beyond COVID 19 Investment Opportunities In The Stock Market are now available. To obtain your pack send ‘Yes’ or ‘Stock’ to 08028164085, 08179547605 now.