LAGOS – Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Book Club Africa Authors and pub­lisher have called on government and stakeholders to be on top of their game for the growth and development of the book industry. They also warned federal and state governments of the consequences of neglect of the education system by starving it of the needed funds for de­velopment. The authors and publisher whose outstanding children’s books featured in the SDG reading list spoke recently at a roundtable which deliberated on efforts of literary artists and creatives to move the book industry forward. -Advertisement- The event was part of activities lined up for the recently concluded 21st Nigeria International Book Fair held in Lagos. Chigozie Anuli Mbadugha, author of “Rude Awakening” which protests traditional practices in Igbo land that forbid female descendants from inher­iting property, encouraged authors and creatives to always speak out against injustices and obnoxious practices in the society and be advocates of those who do not have a voice. She called for better funding of book projects by stakeholders and new strat­egies in book production and market­ing. She urged authors to adopt team­work, engage in healthy competition and print on demand, and avoid sole marketing to achieve development of the book ecosystem. Abdullahi Ishmaila whose book, “The Garbage School,” laments the rot in Nigeria’s education system, called for urgent need by the government to fund education. POLL He particularly urged the Federal Government to abolish the 6-3-3-4 sys­tem of education as it breeds lazy, poor­ly taught and unemployable graduates. He warned that destroying educa­tion system is tantamount to destroying the nation automatically, Chukwuemeka Chukwudi, au­thor of “Monkey Business” which denounces endemic corruption in Ni­geria, urged literary artists to sustain the book ecosystem by writing from imagination and different genres and to make statement in culture by being critics. Adegbola Adesina, Publisher of “AIDS: The Wicked Disease” written by deceased authors which educates children on the need for them to pro­tect themselves from diseases, called for symbiotic relationship among literary artists, creative, authors and critics to have a balanced ecosystem. Adesina called for practical ways to eradicate poverty, ensure zero hunger, good health, qualitative education and clean water.