IBADAN  – The founder of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Prof Banji Akintoye has described the statement credited to Sahara Reporters that he was consider­ing quitting the Yoruba Self-de­termination group as a blatant lie and figment of imagination. According to Prof Akintoye on Friday, he said, “The story published on Thursday, May 12, 2022, by Sahara Reporters that I, Prof Banji Akintoye, I am considering quitting the Yoruba self-determination or­ganisation Ilana Omo Odudu­wa Worldwide that I founded for any reason whatsoever, is all blatant falsehood. “The added account that an official of Buhari’s federal gov­ernment is offering me millions of Naira to lure me away from Ilana Omo Oduduwa and the whole Yoruba self-determina­tion struggle is equally blatant­ly false. -Advertisement- “And the suggestion that I am naive enough to yield to money, or to give up what I am busy doing for the Yoruba nation in order to accept the leadership of all Yoruba Groups or a national fund, is both an insult and a gro­tesque fabrication. “I have no reason whatsoev­er to consider abandoning the organisation which I founded for the service of the Yoruba na­tion, towards achieving Yoruba self-determination. Ilana Omo Oduduwa has, by the grace of God; grown in a short time to become the mightiest power­house in the Yoruba struggle to liberate itself from the poor governance, awful insecurity, and disastrously mismanaged economy of Nigeria. “I have no information whatsoever that any official of Buhari’s government has been sent to bring any money to me, but I doubt it. I doubt it because the people in the Fulani cabal managing the Federal Govern­ment know me very well, and know that I absolutely cannot be bought or bullied by them. “They know that in my much younger years as a prominent youth in the politi­cal family of our father, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, they could not buy or bully me. I am sure that they are afraid to send their money to me in this grand old age because they know I regard their money as filthy money. I am still the brave patriot and uncompromising fighter for truth and integrity that my God made me be. “We, Yoruba will soon free ourselves from the death and decay that Nigeria has become. We will soon take our people out of the mud-pit of Nigeria into our own sovereign Yoruba Country, into our land of great progress, abundant and equal opportunities, law, order, securi­ty and justice, where our youths will surprise the world with their industry and inventions.”