The aspiration of a leading Oyo South Senatorial hopeful under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Olooye Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke gained more support on Tuesday as the leadership and membership of the party in Ibarapa East local government have pledged their support for his candidature. As he promised to give voice to the traditional institution to have a role in governance if elected as Senator representing the district. They declared their support for Adegoke when he paid a visit to the leaders and members of the party in the local government at the party secretariat, Eruwa in the Ibarapa geo-political zone of the state. -Advertisement- The leaders and members in their unanimous decision pledged their support for the senatorial hopeful, Olooye Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke at the coming primary of the senatorial district. They hinged their support on his integrity and competency, describing him as honest and a man of his words, which has never renegade on his promises. Welcoming Adegoke to their midst, the APC Chairman in Ibarapa East, Alhaji Lateef Ajiboye assured him of their unflinching support, promising that they would work as one indefatigable family to ensure that Adegoke emerge victorious at the primary. He appealed to other members, leaders and delegates from other local governments to support Adegoke’s aspiration for better representation in the red chamber. Also speaking at the meeting, Pa S.A Adeegbe prayed for Adegoke on his aspiration, noting that Oyo South needs people of his calibre at the Red chamber. POLL Other leaders including Siji Oyelola, Adelore Atanda and Alhaji Fatai Ayanyemi, youth leader, Aderoju Babatunde and women leader, Mrs Olayiwola Victoria pledged their support for Adegoke. They implored him not to forget them like those who have occupied the position before him, after clinching the ticket and eventually winning the election. They all also prayed for his success. Reacting, Adegoke, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), a business turnaround expert thanked them for expressing their support for him and promised not to let them down. An alumni member of both Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ife and the University of Cambridge Judge Business School Advance Leadership Program promised to bring development to all nooks and crannies of Oyo South Senatorial District. Adegoke, the Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland and a philanthropist per excellence, also promised that he will ensure that the traditional rulers have a voice in governance if elected as Senator representing the district.