…Warns Against Voting Northern Aspirants LAGOS – Ahead of the 2023 general elections, as the leading opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) holds its primary elections to elect its presidential flag bearer, the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has called on party delegates to shun primordial considerations in their choice of a candidate, warning that they should not mortgage the future of Nigeria. In a press statement on Saturday signed  by Chief (Dr.) Edwin Kiagbodo Clark, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Dr Pogu Bitrus and Prof George Obiozor, the group noted that they must only vote in the national interest to preserve the oneness of Nigeria. -Advertisement- SMBLF urged delegates to cast their votes for only credible aspirants from the South, warning that the unity and peace of Nigeria could be jeopardized if the consent of the delegates to the unwarrantable determinations being paraded. The group of socio-political organisations further warns that it would be totally unacceptable for the major political parties in the country to choose candidates from the North as Flag bearers for the 2023 presidency, stressing that given the fact that the northern part of the country would have fully enjoyed the Presidency of the country for the full statutory period of 8 years by 2023, under President Muhammadu Buhari, and therefore, asserts that the next President of Nigeria should come from the South, particularly the South-East. “This country belongs to all of us and we all have equal stakes. Any attempt by any group of persons to hold on to political power in perpetuity to the exclusion of the rest of Nigeria will be disastrous. “It bears reminding the political class that the basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex country such as Nigeria, is fair and even sharing of power, accordingly, we restate our call on all lovers of peace and equity in Nigeria, particularly our people of Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt region, to reject any political party that fails to zone its presidential ticket to the South. SMBLF, cautions all persons from Southern Nigeria including politicians, public servants, professionals, and academics, not to accept on any justification, for the position of Vice President. POLL “This will not only be a dishonourable legacy for them and generations after them but tantamount to slavishly mortgaging the political future of the people of Southern Nigeria! “It is noted, without a doubt, that the nation is at a critical point, therefore, we strongly urge leaders of Nigeria; true patriots, statesmen and women, to intervene in the political process to save the country from the reckless endangerment of its future corporate existence by the avoidable intrigues and manoeuvres of some self-seeking politicians,” the statement added.