Barrister Kenneth Udeze is the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, Udeze, who is also the Legal Adviser of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), speaks on the coming 2023 general elections, especially the high cost of forms demanded by some political parties, among other issues. Excerpt: How do you see the amount being charged by major political parties, particularly the APC and PDP for the Intention and Nomination forms? It is quite unfortunate that we are witnessing all these absurdities in our polity. Let me tell you that the parties with theses high costs for their nomination forms brought the situation upon themselves, as I was thinking that micro-zoning would have helped to discourage this numerous aspirants from the entire federation seeking to become president. -Advertisement- It has become an avenue for revenue generation for some of these greedy parties. APC alone have more than 25 presidential aspirants, PDP, well over 15, etc. Our party will not toe that path, as we have considered the financial plight of many Nigerians, especially the good aspirants, to peg our nomination form cost as low as N500,000 for State House of Assembly aspirants and N15 million for the presidential aspirants with 50% discount for persons between the age of 25 and 35. Nomination form for women is free with the payment of just their Expression of Intent form. Persons with disabilities (PWDs) are completely free for both important forms. Considering the level of insecurity in the country, do you think the 2023 general elections will still hold in every part of the country? First of all, I want to use this opportunity to urge all those behind the continuous killings of innocent people in Nigeria to have a rethink and stop the carnage. As for the elections holding in all the sections of Nigeria, I want to state categorically that if this present administration is serious, nothing can stop the election being held on the same day all through Nigeria. In the event that INEC decides to stagger the elections, it must not be with the intention of giving any political party or candidate an unfair advantage. POLL The Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, recently said that the nation is in a state of emergency and suggested that instead of the election, the president should set up a National Government to first resolve all the contentious issues and restore peace and unity before a general election. What is your take on that? I am happy with this Elder Statesman, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, for his genuine advocacy for the unity of Nigeria. But, I will defer a little bit from that position. This is because it may end up throwing up an unprecedented counter outcome because of the composition of the team that will make up the National Unity personnel. I suspect that no matter how much independence they may wish to have, yet there is still going to be serious manipulations from outside which will make it difficult to achieve simple resolutions. Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan had a similar Assembly, with very cogent resolutions. Please, what has become of it? Our National Assembly should raise the bills that are pro-democracy, and by that, consider micro-zoning political positions to the zones of the federation to ensure that all the zones have a taste of the highest office of the land as it is the practice in Switzerland. Do you see the possibility of Nigerians choosing the next president from outside the APC and PDP considering that there is not much difference between the two? Political structure of the very party, INEC forthrightness and massive voter education are required to enable the electorates achieve that scenario. Otherwise, if things remain as they are currently, forget it, PDP and APC, are still the parties to beat due to their heavy war chess which is also very key in any electioneering. Do you think the youths and women have the capacity to be elected governors and the president to bring about the needed change in country? I am still in my youthful age and I am the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA), and we still have many like me in many offices, both male and female, who are doing very well. The EFCC Chairman and Secretary are all youths, and they are doing well. Let me tell you the truth. What we need in Nigerian governance system is complete generational shift, because our forefathers in government have failed us due to their old fashioned style of governance. Even with the present inventions in the world, you will agree with me that the weapons of warfare of the 60s, cannot serve any purpose in the wars of today, where robots fight the wars. Please, let us give our youths the opportunity for the desired change in governance. If I am doing very well, others like me will even do the same, given the opportunity. Do you see religion and ethnicity playing major role in the 2023 general elections? That is the evil that has held us down in Nigeria for many years, and if nothing is done swiftly and differently in 2023, I am sorry, Nigeria cannot make any progress, not even an inch progress. Unfortunately, because of lack of voter education, in 2023, it will still be the Nigerian state’s albatross. We need to educate our people more, especially people in the North, because greater majority of the electorates in the Central and Southern Nigeria are a lot more independent minded when it comes to choosing who to vote for. And it is not as if when votes are given based on ethnic or religious consideration, that they will be better off. I think they should have reconsideration. How do you see the demand that the next president should come from South East? Do you see it as being feasible in the coming election? Make no mistakes, if Nigeria should be wise enough to give someone from the South East the opportunity as their President, the 70% of Nigeria’s challenges will be solved in the first four years. Don’t misquote me. I am saying that this consideration should not delay. It should start with these forthcoming elections. We are willing to give a good candidate our ticket. But, it must be a Nigerian as Action Alliance (AA) Constitution does not have the rotational policy of aspirants in position of authority. Be that as it may, Action Alliance (AA) will not beg aspirants from the South to come and fly the party’s flag and we cannot stop any qualified aspirants from contesting for election under our platform because of the clamour for micro zoning of presidential ticket to the South East. There is this adage that the river can only drown the person that comes into it. How do you see the issue of zoning and concession as they affect the two main political parties, APC and PDP? That is their business. As for us in Action Alliance, we are giving a level playing ground for all the aspirants that will run under our platform. We are therefore calling on all Nigerians willing to contest for any position in the forthcoming election in 2023 to come and use our platform. We are democratic, disciplined and supportive. Could you give an assessment of some of the presidential aspirants that have emerged so far? All of them so far and possibly others that may be coming out later seem to be qualified to contest. But, they have to study and follow the new Electoral Act. We are earnestly shopping for a good presidential candidate, as most of the personalities (aspirants) that have contacted us seem to be playing hide and seek. But, we are still assessing them. What do you think should be the main campaign issues in the 2023 general elections? The main issues are salient. But, let me dwell a little on the issue of security and economic transformation. On security, if a serious minded president emerges after the election, the insurgency will reduce drastically, as we are all aware that this administration under President Muhammadu Buhari has not helped matters at all. On the issue of the economy, one does not even know how much this country owes. But, a different administration will reveal all that. You and I know that we are not faring well in terms of our economic affairs. Needless to say that all the loans collected by Buhari and his policies piloted by Yemi Osibanjo’s economic team had messed up Nigeria’s importance, especially in the areas of our internal affairs and committee of nations.