LAGOS  – The Lagos State Government over the weekend stated that henceforth all individuals, public and private project owners / developers must subject all projects to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process and obtain EIA approval on every project before implementation or face the full weight of the Law. Tunji Bello, the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, while speaking during a media parley in Alausa, said the time has come for all projects to be subjected to EIA in the conception stage because of the multifarious benefits. He said that Environmental Impact Assessment is a formal process for identifying the likely impacts that may arise from a proposed activity of a project on the environment, human health and social economic activities. -Advertisement- Bello stressed that EIA helps in identifying the likely adverse and beneficial impacts of a project on the host environment and aims at putting in place measures to mitigate the negative effects. “It is also a critical environmental management tool that must be embraced by both private and public sector in order to achieve sustainable development”. The Commissioner explained that the establishment of industrial facilities, creation of new settlements, and construction of infrastructures come with huge adverse environmental impacts ranging from pollution of various environmental platforms to sometimes irreversible environmental degradation if not properly managed. He said Lagos State over the years remains the preferred destination for many businesses operating within the various sectors of Nigeria’s economy attributing the business- friendly policies to the ever-growing population of the state. He explained that it also provides huge market for goods and services coupled with the doggedness of the administration to provide necessary infrastructures and enabling environment for businesses to thrive. POLL He said the preference can be likened to a two-sided coin as it comes with both benefits and challenges, stating that on one hand it opens the State to economic prosperity and growth while on the other, it comes with various types of environmental and social challenges. Bello said it has however become worrisome that many projects are on-going in different parts of the State without consideration of EIA and EIA Approval. He said the action of project owners or developers is tantamount to undermining government’s efforts at protecting the State Environment and safeguarding public health. He said globally, Environmental Impact Assessment has become a decision-making tool to protect the environment and Lagos State cannot be an exception. He said Government has therefore adopted the application of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (EIA) process in ensuring sustainable implementation of development projects in the State in line with global best practices.