Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Upstream Regulatory commission, Gbenga Komolafe are among special dignitaries expected to attend the maiden edition of the Olu of Warri, HRM Ogiame Atuwatse Ill Economic summit on Thursday May 26th 2022 at the palace of the Olu of Warri in Ajamimogha, Warri, Delta state. This message which was contained in astatement signed by Mr Oriiz Onuwaje, Head Back Office Operations, Office of Ogiame Atuwatse III, the Olu of Warri made available to Daily Independent Newspaper said the monarch, His lmperial Majesty, the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III, will declare the summit open on Thursday May 26th. The statement added that the summit is one of the initiatives of the Royal Father to attract development to Warri kingdom. -Advertisement- The information disclosed that the summit will be streamed- Live on WWW.atuwatseiii.com, with the oil and gas Companies, host Communities inlwere land playing active and key role with full participating capacity during the one day summit . “This summit is coming on the heels of Ogiame’s determination to ensure Iwere land is developed using the PIA as a tool to restart positive, transparent and progressive engagement between host communities and the settlers where every side is a winner. “Ogiame Atuwatse III – The Olu of Warri , will declare the gathering open in the presence of Delta state governor , His Excellency, Senator Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa , who is expected to kick off the summit. The summit is Thursday, May 26th, 2022 at 11am. Registration starts at 9am. ” The summit promises to feature keynote speakers, including Mr Gbenga Komolafe, the Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Upstream Regulatory commission, Dr Ebi Omatsola, former MD of Conoil, Engr Alex Neyin, former president of the Society of Petroleum Engineers , SPE – African Region, amongst other notable oil industry bigwigs.” “Leaders of Petroleum producing host communities in Iwere land will also participate in the summit as well as the team leads of international oil companies and other players in the petroleum industry.”