With a population of over two hundred million, Nigeria is the most African populous country and the seventh most populous in the world.  Despite a high fertility rate of 5.5 per woman and a high population growth rate of 3.2 percent, Nigeria’s contraceptive prevalence is one of the lowest in the world. Nigeria’s population is put at 215,791,441 as of Wednesday, May 25, 2022, based on Worldometer elaboration of the latest United Nations data. Similarly, the 2018 Nigeria demographic and health survey (NDHS) shows that overall 17 percent of currently married women in Nigeria are using a contraceptive method, an increase of only two percent points since the 2013 NDHS. -Advertisement- Efforts have been ongoing to ensure that contraceptives are available to women in Nigeria. However, uptake is still low with only 12 percent of women in their reproductive years using a modern method of family planning. There is also a high unmet need for family planning in Nigeria. Yet the country has the dominance of youthful population put at more than 72 percent below 30 years, while half of the female population are in their reproductive years (15-49 years). It was not surprising that many advocates of family planning recently hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for committing to lead the campaign to control the high fertility rate in Nigeria by encouraging family planning usage in a bid to curb the country’s overpopulation crisis. The worried Buhari made his commitment at the launching of the Revised National Policy on Population for Sustainable Development at the State House, Abuja, alerting that the quality of life and standards of living of all Nigerians is threatened by overpopulation. These trends have implications for sustained population growth and narrowed prospects of achieving population management and facilitating sufficient demographic transition in the country. POLL It further portends certain consequences for harnessing Nigeria’s demographic endowment and eventually realising sustainable development. Indeed, President Buhari endorsed urgent population control through expanding access to modern family planning, counselling and commodities as well as birth spacing modalities. Experts while lauding the President on the launch of the revised policy believe that the document is rich with all necessary information that will guide the implementation of Nigeria’s Mid-term and Perspective Development Plan. It will further address concerns of the large population of young people “who are our pride, our future, and assets to drive our development efforts,” as President Buhari puts it. The policy emphasises the urgency to address Nigeria’s sustained high fertility rate, through expanding access to modern family planning, counselling, and commodities as well as promoting birth spacing. This will enable Nigeria to achieve rapid fertility control, and improve the health of women, adolescents, newborns and children, and other population groups. Truly, investing in the quality education of young people (particularly girls), and human capital development, among others is integral to achieving a significant demographic transition. Recall that China had a one-child policy which was enforced for most of the 21st century, but in late 2015 Chinese officials announced that the programme was ending. From early 2016, all families would be allowed to have two children, but that change did not lead to a sustained increase in birth rates. Obviously, the implementation of the policy would require credible, reliable, timely, robust, geo-referenced, and well-disaggregated data. But, President Buhari believes that the data generated from the forthcoming census will provide all the information needed for the successful implementation of the new policy. Hon. Nasir Isa Kwarra, Chairman of, the National Population Commission (NPC) wants Nigerians to embrace the noble ideals of Planned Parenthood and the healthy reproductive behaviours enunciated in the policy. Kwarra enumerated some salient issues about the population policy. He claimed that the review policy is the product of extensive consultations and nationwide engagements with key stakeholders and interest groups. He said the groups cut across government sectoral ministries at national and states’ levels, civil society organisations, development partners, researchers, the media, and the organised private sector. The NPC Chairman said the NCPM as a body is key in the implementation of the revised Policy, saying ‘’in addition to providing strategic direction in the implementation process, the Council will hopefully advocate for and support the conduct of the population and housing census, thus providing accurate and up-to-date data to guide the implementation of the Policy. Matthias Schmale, the United Nations (UN) Resident Coordinator, Nigeria, is optimistic that the Policy launched by President Buhari was bound to be successful for several reasons. Firstly, the policy brings to the forefront the linkages between population and development and will inform work and services to improve the well-being and lives of Nigerians. Secondly, the policy is coming on the heels of the recently launched 2021-2025 National Development Plan which focuses on making Nigeria the greatest economy in Africa and even more of a force to reckon with in the world. Thirdly, the successful implementation of the National Policy will very likely have positive implications for maternal health development, youth, and adolescent rights, and the empowerment of women and the girl child. The world and UN look forward to a Nigeria with low maternal mortality; low teenage pregnancy and childbirth; reduced fertility rate, increased utilisation of modern contraceptive methods, and high education attainment, among others, Schmale stressed. Nigeria must not fall below the benchmark.