KELVIN ONYEKACHUKWU WARRI – Hon, Michael Diden aka Ejele (the people messager) of the People Democratic Party PDP. Delta State has won the PDP Primary, for the Delta South Senatorial district, help at the Warri city stadium on Monday. The People’s Democratic Party PDP conducted the Primaries for the three senatorial districts in the state, (Delta North, Delta central and Delta South) with Hon. Michael Diden aka Ejele. who won the Delta South senatorial district Primary, which was held in Warri, Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. -Advertisement- Hon. Michael Diden wins the Delta South Senatorial District primary with a total delegates votes of 176 (votes) out of the total 272 delegates that voted why other aspirants Hon. Daniel Reyeineju with 49. Leading Hon. JFK Omatsena And Ayodele Speaking to newsmen shortly after the Primary election, Hon Michael Said, “this victory is a very good victory. The people have chosen what they want and who they want to represent them in Senate, at the federal level, the Delta South Senatorial district. They have also demonstrated the real way of true democracy. “By tomorrow when or if other parties confront the PDP, what you see today will also be demonstrated In any election as far as Delta State is concerned. When asked, What is your message to the electorate? Hon. Michael Diden said, “My message to the electorate and to myself is this, the electorate they gave me a nickname, and that nickname is called that people messenger. My message to them is that I am ready to bring/take the message for them”. POLL When also asked, Some people lost in this election and you are fortunate to win, what is your message to those that lost? The people messager said, “I have contested this election before I lost and I congratulated those that won then. Now that the primary election is gone what are your expectations towards the forthcoming election? Diden said, “To me today is a friendly match, the general election is going to be a knockout match. And I believe anybody that comes out in this senatorial district will be knockout. You know very well that, what the people have to do is to elect someone that can represent them Actually, that anytime any day, night or day, the person is there for you.” Hon. Michael Diden said.