The National Population Commission (NPC) has commenced online recruitment of ad-hoc staff who would assist the Commission in the conduct of a trial census slated for June 2022. The Chairman of the Commission, Nasir Isa Kwarra stated this at the flag-off of the e-recruitment portal for the trial census exercise held at the Headquarters of the NPC in Abuja. Kwarra said the introduction of the e-recruitment process was borne out of the need to ensure fairness and transparency in the recruitment process. -Advertisement- He said, The need to be fair and transparent in the recruitment process has led the Commission to introduce the e-recruitment process and train the officers that will superintend over this important census recruitment process. “To us in the Commission, the quality of staff that will perform the census activities is very important. “Therefore, having a good knowledge of the content of the census document, the technique and the organisation of the census process is key to the success of the 2023 Population and Housing Census. “The quality of the recruitment process will reflect on the quality of the data to be collected and ultimately the success of the 2023 census. “While a good recruitment exercise will not by itself necessarily guarantee a successful census, a badly conducted recruitment process will inevitably lead to problems and increase the risk of an unsuccessful census. POLL “The launch of the E-recruitment portal at the headquarters marks the beginning of the online recruitment process whereby Nigerians from all demography and gender can hook on to the website that will be provided by the Commission to fill the online form and get themselves registered to be recruited.” He further revealed that the bulk of personnel for the 2023 Census would be drawn from the communities where they are residents. This initiative, according to him, would remove the huge logistics of moving personnel across the country. Also speaking, Mr Inuwa Jalingo, Census Manager, explained that the e-recruitment portal is geo-fenced and the application is restricted to only applicants residing in the six selected Local Government Areas(LGAs) from the six geo-political zones of Nigeria. Jalingo pointed out that applicants must be in those six selected LGAs to be able to apply for the trial census exercise. The six selected LGAs include Brass LGA(Bayelsa), Idemili South LGA (Anambra), Imeko-Afon LGA(Ogun), Tongo LGA(Adamawa) Karu LGA(Nasarawa) and Daura LGA(Nasarawa). Applicants are advised to apply using the link: https://recruitment.adhoctrial.nationalpopulation.gov.ng