YENAGOA – The Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria (ERA/FoEN) has challenged the Bayelsa State government to drag the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) to court to compel the oil firm to carry out a total clean-up and remediation of its oil spill-impacted sites around Ikarama community in the state. This was contained in a field report released on Wednesday by the Head of ERA/FoEN, Yenagoa Office, Alagoa Morris, following the environmental rights group’s follow-up visit to oil spill incidents within the bush of Ikarama on May 6, 2022, after an earlier visit on April 27, 2022. “This field report is actually a follow-up to oil spill incidents within this particular environment of interest since 2007”, the organisation said, adding that the health and livelihoods of the residents were in serious danger. -Advertisement- In the report, the group recalled that the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) had in 2014 declared Bayelsa the most polluted state in the Niger Delta. It said, “The Bayelsa State Government, through the Ministry of Environment, should take all necessary legal steps on behalf of Ikarama community to ensure all oil spill polluted environment from Shell facilities are properly cleaned-up and remediated after a comprehensive environmental audit.” According to the group, its investigation during the visits showed the oil company had not done proper clean-up and remediation of any spill-ravaged site within the Ikarama environment. It said, “ERA/FoEN’s investigation revealed that not only are most spill sites set ablaze by alleged agents of Shell, but there has also been no proper clean-up and remediation of any spill-impacted site in the immediate community environment by SPDC. What is often done is scooping/recovery of some quantities of spilled crude oil and that is all. “Related actions are also delayed, not prompt. It is also pertinent to note that recovery of spilled crude oil is not same as cleanup and remediation. This is why there is need for holistic environmental audit of the immediate environment of Ikarama, followed-up with proper clean-up and remediation. This would ensure some level of environmental justice as the impacted sites would eventually regain fecundity. POLL “Presently, the health and livelihood of the people of Ikarama are at stake, owing to the non-cleanup of spill-impacted sites by Shell. This should also be of concern to the general public in terms of health as crops and fish from crude oil polluted sites put on sale at the market could have multiplier effects when consumed by unsuspecting members of the public.” The group, therefore, also urged the Federal Government to ensure that the UNEP-recommended standard clean-up and remediation exercise ongoing in Ogoniland (Rivers State) were also extended to Ikarama and other communities in Bayelsa as well as other polluted community environments in the Niger Delta. It insisted that Shell should clear its liabilities by cleaning up legacy spill sites onshore before running away to continue operations offshore, stressing these improperly cleaned sites in the community indicating crude oil in the ground remained “a clear testimony that there is no hiding place for Shell, the environmental and ecological debts have to be paid.” “NOSDRA should rise to the occasion, to justify its place in the protection of our environment and as a regulator by prevailing on Shell to return to oil spill-impacted sites and do proper remediation,” ERA/FoEN added.