Barcelona could be prepared to offer a swap deal with Manchester City that would see Bernardo Silva exit the Etihad. Frenkie De Jong, a man who is not without his suitors, would be the man to head the other way according to reports in Spain. Silva was linked with a switch to the Nou Camp last term amid suggestions he was looking for a Manchester departure. Barcelona boss Xavi is keen to add more competition in midfield. A lot is expected of Pedri in Catalunya and the presence of Bernardo would ease that burden, reports Mundo Deportivo. The Portuguese star has been among the leading lights for City as they look to retain their Premier League crown but has several years remaining on his deal. -Advertisement- City will be keen to get market value for a player whom they signed back in 2017 and has continued to improve under Pep Guardiola’s guidance. The Catalan will be in the market as he seeks to replace Fernandinho, who is poised to leave at the end of the season. It leaves City light in midfield and De Jong would be the ideal man to come in and fill in for the departing Brazilian. The Dutchman headed to Barcelona in 2019 but has been linked with the exit door as Manchester United are too thought to be keen ahead of Erik ten Hag’s arrival. Xavi has insisted that, whilst he wants more from De Jong, he is the future of the Spanish club. “He has to be a player that makes the difference and he does,” said the Barcelona boss. “There aren’t many players with his quality in the world. He’s the present and the future [at Barca]. He is a very important player for me. He’s capable, strong, he gets into the box. He has had some excellent games, but he has to be consistent.” Guardiola has also hinted that, despite Bernardo’s desire to leave back in the summer, he may now be happy with life at City once more. He said earlier this season: “He is funny, beloved and happy here. I have the feeling he is happy here with his personal life and I hope he can have an exceptional season with us again.” “He can play six positions – holding midfielder, attacking midfielder, (left) winger, striker, false nine, the other winger – and can play everywhere. He is so smart, so intuitive, so intelligent.” Bernardo has made 47 appearances for the English side this term, scoring 13 times whilst De Jong has been utilised just as much, playing in over 40 games.