As a most cost-effective strategy to decrease maternal, newborn, and child mortality, the World Health Organisation recommends use of contraceptives for child spacing or children birth every three years rather than having too many and too soon. Specifically, the WHO says, “Use of contraception advances the human right of people to determine the number and spacing of their children.”The world health body argued that this reduces the number of unplanned pregnancies, abortions, and the fraction of high-risk infants, preventing overpopulation and its associated economic costs. Therefore, it currently recommends use of family planning within an interval between the last live birth and the next pregnancy of at least 24 months, a birth interval of 33 months. Family planning, according to reproductive health professionals, is a technique that individuals and couples utilise to achieve their desired number of children or the spacing and timing of their childbirths. The planning may include determining the number of children a woman wants, as well as her preference for having no children and the age at which she wants them. The timing of reproduction is controlled via contraceptive treatments and other means.Ensuring access for all people to their preferred contraceptive methods advances several human rights is a globally acceptable practice. These include the right to life and liberty, freedom of opinion and expression and the right to work and education, as well as bringing significant health and other benefits.Despite the fact that family planning is a hu saves lives and advances sustainable human right and economic development, many couples who require it do not have easy accessibility to it. External circumstances such as marital status, job considerations, financial situation, or disabilities that may affect ability to have and raise children influence its use. However, the cultural element is the most significant impediment to family planning in Nigeria.Nonetheless, Nigeria is signatory to the United Nations’ (UN) provision that recognises family planning as a fundamental human right that enable women to make decisions and take responsibility for their reproductive health. Since 1950, the UN has affirmed the right to family planning. In fact, the  global body declared contraception to be a human right in a report released in 2012. The 1968 International Conference on Human Rights first recognised family planning as a human right. And as a result, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) has set its attention on “Family Planning is a Human Right.” “Chipping away at women’s access to information is a direct attack on their access to healthcare, and the right to make informed autonomous decisions about their lives and bodies,” said Amanda Klasing, Senior Researcher at Human Rights Watch. According to the conference’s Tehran Proclamation, “parents have a basic human right to select freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children.” The conference linked family planning to the human right to dignity and worth.According to Natalia Kanem, Executive Director of UNFPA, “family planning is not only an issue of human rights; it is also critical to women’s empowerment, poverty reduction, and attaining sustainable development.” Although the Federal Government of Nigeria agreed in 2011 to providing free family planning goods to all women in public facilities, women continue to be denied this right.For instance, a study on barriers to acceptance of family planning in Abakiliki, Ebonyi State capital in 2015, by C.O.U Esike, O.B. Anozie, M. Ani, K. Ekwedigwe, A.K. Onyebuchi, P.O. Ezeonu, O.U.J. Umeora of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Nigeria, found the most common fear that kept the majority of the women 166 (50.3 percent) from accepting family planning was fear of unpleasant side effects, followed by 110 (33.3 percent) women who did not use family planning because their spouses disapproved it. 27 women (8.2 percent) did not utilise family planning because it was against their culture and religion, respectively. The majority of people believed they had enough knowledge about family planning.They found that, while some progress has been made in family planning, much more needs to be done if new programmes are devised to actively incorporate men in family planning and address other identified worries among women about family planning. However, health experts believe that appeals to fundamental or inherent human rights will not move either individuals or governments unless they are followed by a well-planned action to address the observed impediments to enabling women and female adolescents to enjoy family planning as a fundamental human right.The National Family Planning Communication Plan (2017-2020) further provides approaches for improving the use of modern contraceptives in Nigeria.This includes, raising the proportion of women who are fully aware of modern family planning methods from 83.8 percent to 95  percent and achieving 50 percent coverage of couples who discuss family planning issues.Others are achieving 50 percent coverage of Nigerian political leaders and decision makers who openly support family planning as well as to achieve yearly release of at least 50 percent of the funds required by each state for adequate family planning service delivery.Without a question, all parties have a duty to urgently guarantee that this human right is not only legally enforced, but also invest in communication, persuasive, and education efforts to achieve this. Without a question, all parties have a duty to urgently guarantee that this human right is not only legally enforced, but also invest in communication, persuasive, and education efforts to achieve this.