A leading Pro-democracy and Civil Rights Advocacy Group- Human Rights Writers Association Of Nigeria (HURIWA) has accused the current hierarchy of the People’s Democratic (PDP) of engaging in a choreographed Suicide Mission by hatching and implementing active but corrosive and toxic anti- Igbo antics by withholding the zoning of the Presidency in 2023 from the South-East to assuage the longstanding systematic and systemic marginalisation of the South-East of Nigeria in the political scheme of things. HURIWA also accused the Rivers State governor Mr. Nyesom Wike of inflicting irreparable damage to the sole of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) by hijacking the party’s National secretariat due to the overwhelming selfish ambition he is nursing to corner the slot of the candidacy of the party for the 2023 Presidency. The rights group also accused some corrupt-minded and political weaklings amongst Igbo elites of conniving with the Rivers State’s governor to plant IGBOPHOBIA amongst the highest echelons of the PDP. -Advertisement- According to HURIWA, the fear of the unknown is driving Governor Wike’s horrific ambition to seize the presidential slot of PDP because “he is mortally afraid that should his arch political rival Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi get the presidential slot of the APC and win the 2023 presidency, then certainly, he, Governor Nyesom Wike, could face political persecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission over alleged financial indiscretion as the governor of Rivers State since the last 8 years. HURIWA also carpeted the Rivers State governor for criticising Mr. Peter Obi for quitting the heavy cash-compromised PDP. HURIWA commended the former governor of Anambra State Mr. Peter Obi for displaying the highest sense of conviction and political principles to walk out of the collapsing political house called PDP due to the stinking CASH-AND-CARRY tendencies within the leading opposition political party which is bent on chasing away the South-East of Nigeria from her fold because having used and dumped the South-East of Nigeria, the party now wishes to become a slave of the North or of Mr. Nyesom Wike. HURIWA affirms: “These two tendencies of Atiku Abubakar and Nyesom Wike have combined to ensure that the South-East of Nigeria does not get her deserved pride of place in the party they had laboured to build for over twenty years even at the risk of suffering some of the harshest policies of marginalisation and political apartheid from the President Muhammadu Buhari administration for the last 7 years because the South-East has since 1999 been voting en masse for the People’s Democratic Party”. HURIWA has also commended the immediate past Minority Leader Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe for abandoning the PDP because of the anti-Igbo sentiments and the antics of divide and rule just as the RIGHTS GROUP said the PDP has lost the support of the South East of Nigeria and will pay dearly for this sabotage of the political right of the South East of Nigeria. HURIWA recalled that the Senate Minority Leader Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe had tendered a letter to the Senate President indicating that he has just resigned from his position even as this was a sequel to his resignation from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under which he was elected to the Senate in 2019. Abaribe announced his resignation in two separate letters – one addressed to his Ward Chairman and the other to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, dated 24th and 26th May 2022 respectively. POLL HURIWA praised Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe and Mr. Peter Obi for showing courage and determination to stand for justice, truth, social and political-ideological principles and for taking a long walk away from the house of scam that the People’s Democratic Party has suddenly become even as the Rights group told the PDP that its only redemption is to concede the slot of the President of Nigeria in the 2023 General election to the South East of Nigeria in line with the provisions of the constitution of the party. HURIWA sees the zoning of offices by political parties as a fulfilment of Section 14(3) of the 1999 Constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria as amended which speaks to the issue of respecting FEDERAL CHARACTER PRINCIPLES in the allocation of offices and projects in the federation. HURIWA said it offends the principles of natural justice and national unity that Igbo which has one of the three largest populations in Nigeria has been treated with the short-end of the stick through the connivance of the Hausa/Fulani North and some reactionary elitist elements of the South-West extraction for their selfish agenda which is undermining the national cohesion.