AKURE – Ondo State government has denied the misappropriation of fund collected through the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from cocoa farmers in the Ofosu forest reserves in Idanre, Idanre Local Government Area of the state. Addressing newsmen in Akure on Tuesday, the Senior Special Assistant (Agric and Agribusiness) to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Akin Olotu,  explained that the steps taken by the state government on the farmland in the forest reserve was in the interest of the farmers and the state. He described the allegations as spurious, saying he’s ready for probe and investigation. -Advertisement- Olotu said the government was planning to relocate the farmers for improved output. The farmers had alleged sale of their farmland to a private firm through a petition addressed to Governor Akeredolu through their attorney, Tope Temokun, and called for investigation of the SSA over alleged levies collected from them. But the Olotu has expressed shock over the allegations in the petition, saying all funds paid by the farmers were collected by the state Internal Revenue Service which were for the annual rent of the farm. According to him, “The petition is pure blackmail and I’m shocked that such will come from the chamber of a learned person. I’m saying emphatically that I don’t know anything about this idea of people collecting money from anybody. “They said they paid N10,000 in 2019/2021 per farmer. Yes, the state government had a policy of not driving away farmers from forest. POLL “They have been there for so long, rather than driving them away, let’s see how we can gradually reorganised the forest and that started with the idea of getting them registered. “It is part of security measure to know those on the farm. So, it is not hidden, that was carried out by just an individual. The governor had also said herdsmen in the forest will equally be registered. “So, it is not new and money was not paid into my purse. Everyone that paid that time paid N10,000 for a year rent. In the petition, it was stated that the money was paid to Internal Revenue Services not me. “It was clearly stated that they remain a tenant on the land on annual basis and government reserves the right to decide on the land at any time in the interest of the state.” Speaking on the allegation of identity card, Olotu said: “I’m saying it openly that I have never issued ID card for anybody, dead or alive. And this idea of somebody collecting N3,000 each for issuance of ID card, they should come and point out that very person. “Our own of cocoa is 400 kg per hectare. Ghana’s land is not up to ours and they are producing more than us which means they are getting more cocoa from one hectare, about two to three times of what we are getting. “For the farmers to have better and quality output, arrangement had been made to get them cocoa seedlings and to relocate to better area. “If I have a hand in anybody collecting N3000, I want to be penalised. Before God and man, I have never for once asked any farmer to give me one kobo. Even when they give me voluntarily, I reject. All the money are being paid to the Board of Internal Revenue.”