AKURE – The brains behind the ongoing campaign of calumny through a petition against the endorsement of Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun re-election on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). Condemning the petition while addressing newsmen at Iwe Iroyin, Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, the leadership of the Ogun State chapter of Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) described the petition as spurious, not genuine and a calculated attempt to assassinate the character of the governor. Okusanya Samson, the state chairman of IPAC, noted that the author of the petition, one Ayodele Oludiran, was devoid of the potentialities required for rational-thinking in terms of understanding complexities of governance. -Advertisement- According to Okusanya, “Upon the release of the petition, the Leadership of inter party Advisory Council(IPAC) met with the leadership of APC in the State to make necessary findings on the various allegations levied against H.E. Prince Dapo Abiodun MFR, as Governor of Ogun State. “We also discovered that the very long but embarrassingly empty epistle of calumny written by the said Ayodele Oludiran has definitely marks him out as a very worthless addition to the human race. “Your Excellency Sir, with the petitioner rantings all through his epistle in his worthless petition, it is made clear that Ayodele Oludiran substantially lacks the capacity to correctly understand the complexities in rational thinking needed to be a responsible public commentator “Therefore, Ogun State IPAC wish to bring it to the attention of all and sundry that H.E. Prince Dapo Abiodun is well educated with verifiable facts and a seasoned administrator per excellence whose corporate experiences have reflected in the ongoing transformational changes in Ogun State”. The political council, however, warned all distractors, dropping the name of a former governor of the state as sponsor, to desist from the campaign of calumny as the state is preparing for the 2023 general elections. POLL The IPAC chairman said: “The former governor and his group sponsoring the faceless Ayodele Oludiran are boasting round the State that they will malign, scandalize and blackmail Governor Dapo Abiodun, but the era of recycled political racketeers, who are strictly merchants without commitment and conscience for the governed, must be collectively brought to a final stop through a positive change as represented by His Excellency Governor Dapo Abiodun MFR performance. “Ogun State Inter party Advisory Council (IPAC) had at different times refused entreaties from such people to join them in this evil mission severally. We make bold to say that this desperate attempt to stop Governor Dapo Abiodun, MFR from getting a second term will be resisted on all fronts by the good people of Ogun State. “We urge the national leadership of the ruling party to disregard the rantings of the drowning politicians and power maniacs by jettisoning the petition as it’s an attempt to make the state ungovernable by the former Governor and ultimately turn Ogun State to a war zone because his 8 years wasted administration which was hitherto characterized by looting and award of contract to pseudo contractors, diversion of bail out fund has become a thing of the past under the transparent administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun MFR “The characters behind this petition are looking for short way to victory to continue their Institutionalized slavery, political arrogance, mischief, rascality, executive impunity, malfeasance, financial recklessness, economic mis- management, Looting and day light embezzlement.” The press briefing addressed by IPAC chairman was also attended by Ashade Micheal, the IPAC Secretary, Yeye Olufunke Olarenwaju, Vice Chairman, Oluso Abraham, Organizing Secretary, Funsho Ogunade, Publicity Secretary, and Wale Adebisi, the Treasurer. Others are Otunba Jinadu, the Financial Secretary, Segun Osonoiki, the Legal Adviser and Femi Dehinbo, the, Asst. Secretary.