MTN Communications Limited has been commended for its sponsorship of the just concluded NPFL/LaLiga Under-15 football tournament in Ikenne, Ogun State. Giving the commendation in a chat with our correspondent, first Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Seyi Akinwunmi said with the efforts of the company in grassroots football development, the NFF can be rest assured that the future of the game is very bright. He said: “We are very proud of MTN and we must commend the efforts of the company in grassroots football especially at the just concluded 2022 edition of the NPFL/LaLiga U15 tournament”. -Advertisement- He went further: “The tournament has yielded enough dividends within its short period and we must commend MTN for the efforts put in place”. Speaking in the same vein, second Vice President, Shehu Dikko said MTN has changed the face of grassroots football in the country. Dikko, who is also the chairman of the League Management Company (LMC) promised that they will do all things best possible to keep the talents discovered at the tournament together for future international assignments. Dikko stated that the tournament has thrown up some quality players for the national teams, including Super Eagles midfielder, Akinkunmi Amoo, who plays for F.C. Copenhagen in the Danish Superliga. Amoo was in the maiden class of 2017 squad of the NPFL/La Liga U-15 football tournament. “Within three years, Amoo’s football career has risen so fast. POLL He was in the Golden Eaglets’ squad to the 2019 Africa U-17 Cup of Nations, where he scored in his debut, a 5-4 group stage win against Tanzania. He was also at the 2019 FIFA U-17 World Cup. “Apart from Amoo, some other players, who participated in the first and second editions of the NPFL/LaLiga U-15 football tournament, have also featured for the U-17 national team (Golden Eaglets) and the U-20 national team (Flying Eagles). Some others now play for European clubs,” he said. Recall that Remo Stars U15 team defeated Shooting Stars U15 team 2-0 in the final to lift this year’s trophy while Katsina U15 side defeated Kano U15 team in the third place match.