Lazio have slammed Jose Mourinho for being “obsessed” in an astonishing official club statement in response to comments made by the Roma boss. Mourinho took a swipe at Roma’s city rivals after his team were held to a goalless draw by Bologna on Sunday, ending their hopes of qualifying for the Champions League. Lazio had pulled themselves level with Roma in Serie A a day earlier by winning at Spezia, but Francesco Acerbi’s last minute winner appeared to come from an offside position. Speaking after his side’s match on Sunday, Mourinho took aim at Lazio and questioned how their goal was allowed to stand. -Advertisement- “Another thing that never changes is that 22 years ago,” he explained, via the Daily Mail. “You could win a match with a goal that is offside and you can still do it today. Yesterday, a team won a match with a goal that was offside.” However, those comments did not sit well with Lazio and the club hit back at Mourinho in an astonishing official statement, although they did not explicitly name the former Chelsea boss. The statement reads: “The fact that in 2022, an opposing coach repeatedly mentions other clubs and presumed referee errors and that, at the same time, journalists of proven football faith get worked up about the same matter, forgetting about their professional role and impartiality, proves two things. “That Lazio is obsessively in their thoughts, more than other ambitious targets and that, as it usually happens, they look at someone else’s home to divert attention from failings or incredible incidents, in their favour, that occurred under everyone’s noses. “Despite the necessity to evolve the image of Italian football, some protagonists are stuck to accusing VAR and referees and too many times, lack of respect towards officials and lack of journalistic objectivity aren’t enough considered. POLL “Lazio can’t accept criticism and institutions and believe that values are proven on the pitch, not on TV. Lazio will never be the excuse for somebody else or a scapegoat and will take action in the appropriate forums. “The club continue to avoid comments on decisions taken on the pitch, even when incidents against us occur. That’s the case of Sandro Tonali’s foul on Francesco Acerbi in Lazio vs Milan or Roger Ibanez’s elbow on Sergej Milinkovic-Savic in the return leg derby, just to name two. “Decisive episodes which we didn’t comment on, out of respect for referees and VAR, respect that others don’t have.” Lazio’s win sees them move level with Roma on 59 points with three matches remaining in the Serie A season, although neither can qualify for the Champions League. They trail fourth place Juventus by 10 points and are three points ahead of Fiorentina in the race to qualify for next season’s Europa League.