Sandra Ijeoma Okoye is a journalist, actress and entrepreneur. She is an alumna of the Lagos State University (LASU) where she studied History/International Relations, and the founder of Kendra Creation and SIO Communications. In this interview with ISAAC ASABOR, she spoke extensively on entrepreneurship and what it takes to be an entrepreneur, among other issues. Excerpt: Given your background as a journalist and actress, what motivated you to become an entrepreneur? There are several reasons that motivated me to become an entrepreneur. First and foremost is for me to become my own boss as I believe there are freedom, satisfaction and flexibility it offers. Again, being an entrepreneur gives me the pedestal to embrace new technology and use it to my advantage, and in turn positively impact on humanity. I believe being an entrepreneur gives me a wider leverage to positively impact on humanity. In fact, nothing beats the freedom of being the boss. With freedom comes flexibility to make your own schedule and not have to answer to anyone. You’ll also have the satisfaction of making your own decisions. Starting your own business can be risky, but with that risk comes reward. Being an entrepreneur gives me the confidence that I can build something big from scratch, at least something bigger than what I could as a salaried employee. Let me say that I have for long develop the idea of being on my own even before becoming an actress and then Journalist. I began to nurture the dream of starting a business at an early age. In any case, the No. 1 reason I became an entrepreneur as I earlier told you was for me to become my own boss. -Advertisement- I understand you presently float an online news outfit. What equally is the motivation behind your venture into media-related entrepreneurship? It’s a fact, but we just came on board having concluded all processes of registration, and test running sort of. Again, let me clarify that the online news platform is just an outlet under SIO Communications under which is also an event planning outfit. Our kind of event planning is not all about throwing the most awesome shindig ever, right? For sure. But the job involves more than venue selection and decor decisions. We’ve got all it takes on this super-demanding but super-cool job. What exactly do you do as an event planner? As event planners, our job is to ensure that everything related to an event is taken care of, from idea conception to programming and logistics. We collectively have a sense of duty to create experiences and bring visions to life, which means stirring multiple pots. Considering the kind of businesses you do, how do you see customer relations as important to your businesses? POLL To us at Kendra creation and SIO Communications, we see the primary benefit of healthy customer relations as the influence that result to long-term customer retention. We believe that building trust today means giving our customers what they want, both in terms of product performance and also services that our company provides. We have built our sales policy around the fact that thinking through our entire engagement with a customer can help identify any weak points that may lead to disappointment. Again, our findings reveal that improving those capabilities with a holistic approach can lead to higher customer satisfaction over time. Which three things would you say are the most important when handling a complaint? And which three should be avoided? Let me start by saying that the 3 positive things that can be seen to be the most important when handling customer’s complaints are that one should be positive and concrete, be natural, and that the values that are inherent in the goods should not be exaggerated. What do I mean by that? You might have asked. It means not saying what things you know the item been sold cannot achieve. For instance, it’s like a seller that is in pharmaceutical market trying to say that a particular drug he or she sells can cure several illnesses, whereas it is in doubt if such drug can even cure the major illness it is meant to cure. On the other side of your question, 3 things to avoid are, don’t mock the customer, don’t provide an answer that doesn’t address the issue and don’t reply with a too long answer. In handling Customer Complaints at Kendra Creation, is it possible to automate responses to customer complaints or is the human touch required? Which soft skills do you think are necessary to handle claims and ensure post—complaint satisfaction? Well, in handling customer complaints, we do not rely on automated method such as the use of computerised system as we believe nothing will ever replace the human touch because a computer (as far as I know) will always have a hard time interpreting the nuances of a sentence, a word that could have a double meaning or the expression of an emotion. Therefore, to us, to handle a complaint, we ensure that the employees displays an analytic mind and capabilities to synthesise the problem. To ensure a high level of customer satisfaction, empathy and a passion for customer service will eventually make the difference. Given the fact that not few people are looking at the possibility of being self-employed what opportunities await those that are looking to becoming soap producers like you? First and foremost, it is expedient to look at the market prospects in soap manufacturing. The soap market in Nigeria was two years ago, in 2020, projected to be about N18billion, and it was projected that over 800,000 tonnes of toilet and laundry soap were produced yearly. The foregoing statistics which is in the repository of the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), I belief has not changed much. The statistics is based on a conservative estimate of weekly consumption of one tablet of 75g per person of laundry and bath soap. This demand is driven by population growth, disposable income and consumer trend. Again, there is need to look at the cost of production, particularly at this time that there is a wide disparity between the naira and foreign exchange thereby shooting the cost of virtually every material needed to produce soap high. As well known, soap is a traditional washing compound made from the saponification of oil fats and caustic alkali. The two vital raw materials needed for the production of bar soap are palm oil and caustic soda. Consequently their importance in the production of cleaning agents cannot be overemphasised. As we speak now, their prices have shot up. What are the equipment needed for soap manufacturing, and what does the production process entail? For now, I am not into mass production that requires huge layout of machines in a factory. Rather, I produce based on my customers’ demands. First and foremost, let me say the core machines used for bar soap manufacturing include, oil refinery, boiling pot, amalgamator plodder/extruder cutler eyelet, and sealing machines while the production process follows a sequence that is universal. Thus, it start with the bleaching process of refining the palm to meet production standard. It usually takes one hour duration per batch. Then a process called Saponification, which is the mixture of the refined palm oil with caustic soda and heated to form intermediate products known as soap pellets follows. Then, the next stage is the amalgamator stage. At this stage, soap pellets are combined with fragrances and other materials, which are blended homogenously in the amalgamator. This process takes about 45 minutes for the substance to generate the desired output. Then the amalgamator stage is followed by the Extruder stage, which is the stage where the resultant mass from the amalgamator is then passed through an extruder, which brings out long log soaps. The extruder stage is followed by the eyelet, which will determine the shapes of the bar soaps, and then to the cutting. At this stage, the soaps are ready to be cut into different sizes based on the needs of our customers. After this stage, then comes the sealing and packaging stages. Following the sealing and packaging stages, is the stage where the finished products are packed in cartons, sealed and stored for dispatch to our various customers. For demand-based production, or rather the small scale production of soap, what is needed for now is a stainless steel or heat-resistant plastic drum, if a glass of similar size is obtained it will be better. One or two of these will be required for turning the mixture of; caustic soda, water and oil. In the same vein, also needed is a large steel pot for heating and stirring the soap content until it becomes hard. Not only that, a heating material like the pot support device that has coal, charcoal or wood as the heating element. Again, there is need to be in a position of obtaining chemicals and additives needed for production on a steady basis. How do you distribute and market the products? As earlier mentioned, we produce based on customers’ demands, and our customers are scattered across market places. We’ve been dealing with them since we commenced business.