A US military plane bringing the first shipment of infant formula from Germany to help address a critical shortage in the United States landed in Indianapolis on Sunday. The cargo plane took off from the US air base at Ramstein, Germany, carrying more than 70,000 pounds (35,380 kilograms) of powdered formula, the White House said. It is the first of several flights authorized by US President Joe Biden expected this weekend under “Operation Fly Formula” that will help to relieve the deepening shortage. -Advertisement- Military planes have been deployed to transport the initial batch of formula because no commercial flights were available. The initial shipment will cover about 15% of the immediate need, presidential economics advisor Brian Deese told CNN. “This is an important step, but it is by no means the only step that must take place. We will continue to work as the president has instructed us to look for every opportunity to increase supply,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, who greeted the plane on its arrival. Altogether, about 1.5 million 8-ounce (237 ml) bottles of three different branded formulas are expected to arrive this week. Production issues and asupply-chain crisis have caused a scarcity of medical-grade baby formula, creating grave problems for thousands of parents whose infants rely on it as they are allergic to cow’s milk protein. POLL The US’s largest formula-making plant, in Michigan, was shut down in February amid concerns that contamination may have led to the deaths of two infants. Abbott Nutrition Chief Executive Robert Ford apologized for the shortage on Sunday and promised to fix it, adding that the plant would reopen in the first week of June, and it would take six-to-eight weeks for products to reach store shelves. Ford said the US Food and Drug Administration investigation did not find links between the production area of the Michigan facility and the deaths, but that it did find evidence of bacteria present. The formula produced in Europe was flown to Indianapolis because it is a hub for Nestle, another major domestic producer. The product will be quality-tested at a nearby lab before being distributed to hospitals, pharmacies and doctors’ offices US officials have acknowledged that domestic baby formula production has become too concentrated and say they are hoping to introduce more competition into the market.