AWKA – Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU) has said that it was wrong for the police in Anambra to infer that community leaders were shielding criminal elements in the state by not providing infor­mation to aid apprehension of such disgruntled elements unleashing terror and mayhem in the commu­nities. It would be recalled that the police in Anambra State had last Monday held an elaborate press conference where the Police Com­missioner said categorically that community leaders were unwilling to provide intelligence to the police for effective policing of communi­ties in the state, arguing that the police could not function effectively without useful intelligence. However, responding to what he described as sensitive and very in­cisive statements from the Police Commissioner, the National Pres­ident of ASATU, Chief Barr. Titus Nnabuike Akpudo, said rather than make wrong inferences, the Police should be more effective, proactive and responsive in the discharge of their constitutional duties. -Advertisement- Akpudo who spoke with our correspondent in his office at the ASATU complex, Government House, Awka, maintained that in­dividuals were willing and able to provide useful information to the Police to aid their operations but the big problem is the confidential­ity of such information to protect as well as safeguard the identity of the source. Akpudo therefore expressed worries that most times Police sel­dom respond to distress calls and hardly partner community vigilan­tes to complement their efforts in the hinterlands. He said, “If in actual sense the CP made that assertion that com­munity leaders are the ones shield­ing criminals in their localities; I say that that inference needs a serious and concrete evidence to cement it. And failure to do that will not lend any credence to that particular inference. “The community leaders to me are not shielding criminals and no­body will like to live with a crimi­nal in his community. The Police should also rise up to the occasion and beef up security in the state. “They should cooperate and collaborate with community lead­ers and vigilante men within the communities and set up a team that would be receiving distress calls from the communities and also ensure that information given to them are well managed to ensure the safety of the person giving out the information. “ POLL The ASATU national president further disclosed that traditional rulers and other community lead­ers give out information but the most important thing, according to hi, is the confidentiality of the information given out as many tra­ditional rulers are under threats for providing information to the police. Akpudo revealed that so many traditional rulers in Anam­bra-South Senatorial zone have eloped from their communities for fear of being attacked, adding that there was need for the Police to regain the confidence and trust of the people to enable the police to police them very well.