Some gubernatorial aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the just concluded primaries of the party in Benue State have called for the cancellation of the exercise. This is even as the Appeals Panel for the primary elections in the state told the leadership of the party, that, it has failed the APC. The aspirants called for the cancellation of the governorship primary while making their submissions before the Appeals Panel in the state, arguing that the primary was an aberration. -Advertisement- The aspirants include former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mike Aondoakaa; former National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Barnabas Gemade and Prof. Terhemen Shija among other contestants. The Chairman of Governorship Primary Election Committee, Peter Ojie had earlier declared Rev Fr Hyacinth Alia as the winner of the primaries, which were conducted by the mode of direct primary. The Appeals Panel for the primaries, which commenced sitting on Monday in Makurdi, also heard petitions filed by the gubernatorial aspirants of the party. They challenged the process as an aberration insisting that the primaries did not hold and called for outright cancellation of what they described as a “sham and charade.” Making his submission, Prof Terhemba Shija observed that “This primary election is a sham; it is a charade, it is an aberration and should not be allowed to stand.” POLL Also advancing reasons on why the election should be cancelled, Aondoakaa insisted that justice must be served by cancelling the election, adding that there should be free, fair and transparent APC primaries. He lamented that the party has treated them shabbily, despite the fact that they have been funding the party. He further stated that “When it was time to fund the party, the leader (Senator George Akume) asked I (Aondoakaa), Gemade and Ibuan (Dr Mathias Ibuan) to do so. We taxed ourselves to fund the Ward, Local Government and State Congresses. “Then from nowhere, someone who wasn’t even part of the process was smuggled in and they went and manufactured votes and gave them to him. “We feel humiliated and cheated. We demand justice. Let the right thing be done. Let there be free, fair and transparent primaries in APC in Benue state. “If the so-called person was so popular, why didn’t they ask him to bring the money to fund the processes instead of asking us to do so? “I am a Catholic but can they hold an election in a place like Kano or Zamfara and then go and bring an Imam from nowhere to come and hijack the process? That can never happen and we will not accept it here too”, he stressed. On his part, Senator Gemade argued that “We are all members of this party and we really want it to become a winning party; not an opposition party. And the only way it may become a winning party here is if things are done properly and there is still a window to do things properly now that INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) has extended the time to 6th and 7th of June.” Reacting to the allegations, the Chairperson of the Appeals Panel, Princess Uzoama Onyema stated that the leadership of the APC in the state has failed to conduct a just and fair primary. She said, “Benue APC Publicity Secretary, take this message to your Chairman, you people have failed us. “I wish you all that you wish yourselves. If you wish to do injustice, you will fail; if you wish to do good, you get good. It is up to you whether you want to win this state or you want to lose it. “We have come, we have seen, we have heard and we will deliver our bombshell according to justice with the fear of God”, she insisted.