Doris Ijeome Okeke, the Chief Executive Officer of Oma Kitchen, a restaurant located in Ajao estate area of Lagos, in this conversation with JOY ANIGBOGU, speaks about the need to provide quality services for the sustenance of a business, providing unique services that will increase patronage among other issues. Excerpts: You are into event planning and catering services, how has it been in managing these multiple streams of income businesses? Event planning has been part of me. I am the last in my family but anything that has to do with events in the family I have always been the one running around to have it done. -Advertisement- I just told myself that since I am very good at packaging events, why not make it professional. Four years ago I decided to go into event school. I trained for almost a year so as to get the certificate because I like upgrading myself. I also do so in my acting career. I got the necessary certificate and I became a certified event planner. It is also the same with the catering business, I also trained and I got the certificate to become a professional caterer. Isn’t the business capital intensive, how did you source capital to start the business? I used to go with my boss, the person that mentored me and through that I was getting little financial support. POLL I also learnt the strategy that you can use to start your own event business without necessarily having capital. If you want to be an event planner you may not necessarily need your own capital to start, all you need is to have your contacts, show previous jobs that you have done. You may just be moving towards becoming a millionaire. The client will give you money for everything. If you are planning a wedding for example, your client can give you money for her wedding gown, money for everything, hall etcetera. You have a percentage in everything you do. You don’t need capital to go into the event planning business. The client will pay you and you just start work. If you are mobile, all you need is a call from your client to plan his or her event. It is only when you want to have a huge office that you may be considering getting a capital to start. You just have to be good at whatever you do to succeed. Some young people may be looking up to you, what advice will you give to them? First of all I will advise them not to joke with their education. I flaunt my certificate anywhere I go, whether in the movie industry or in the event planning business. No matter the kind of job that you do, education is very important. Prayer is also very important so that you don’t go to the wrong place. You won’t be a musician and you are in the movie industry. Learn the particular trade that you want to go into. Don’t go into a business because you see people make money there. You may not succeed if you do Just recently you were given an award as the most promising movie actress, 2021/2022. How do you feel receiving such an award in the midst of so many other actresses? I give God the glory. When awards are given to me like this, I just tell myself that there is something that they must have seen in me that made them choose me because there are one thousand and one others in the industry, so why me? It shows that there is something that I am doing that people saw, so I am only encouraged to do more. Ladies in some businesses do complain of marginalisation on the basis of gender, do you have such in your industry especially in the area of sexual harassment, our what some will call the “other room”? I was on live television two three days ago and the same question was asked, and what I told them is what I am going to tell you. The truth is that, the way you dress and the way you present yourself is the way you will be assessed. When you have a goal and you are focused and the producer or whoever is involved in that job sees that you are focused, I don’t think that he will throw such a thing at you. When they see you as someone that is very desperate, wants to get the role, ladies come into Nollywood and some are desperate, then the issue will arise. They are the ones that invite such issues. You want to audition or get roles and you dress seductively, once the producer sees you, his attention can be shifted. He will see you as someone who will be useful in the other room and not for his production. At the end of the day if he fails to give you a good role you will start complaining that he didn’t give a good role after “using you”. Why won’t he use you, when you presented that to him? He will definitely use you for the other room. For the years I have been in the industry I don’t think that I have gotten any sexual harassment. If the man wants to ask you out outside production, it is a different ball game. If they see what you are doing, you have other things that you are doing, apart from the acting job; they will not throw such things at you. The producer knows who will give him the best and he will go for it. Sometimes you will see him bring a woman that is advanced in age, did he sleep with her. It is because he knows that the woman will deliver. What is the industry like now in terms of job creation for the teeming unemployed Nigerians considering the state of the economy? The truth is that some movie producers are not able to meet up financially unlike before. I will say that because of paucity of funds all the people who come into the industry don’t get paid. Some of them will just receive transport fare and some other kind of welfare as support. The truth is that more people are coming into the industry to seek means of livelihood and producers are trying to fix them in one role or the other but the fund is not there because the producer is also trying to manage what he has. Anyone who is coming and is looking at the monetary rewards may be discouraged. Are there ways the government can provide some kind of intervention to help boost the industry? Presently there is a loan scheme for movie producers to benefit from. I have not actually keyed into it, otherwise I would have given you more information about that. I am a certified movie producer so I am aware of that. There is also intervention from the Lagos State government, under Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The government is actually doing one or two things to support us. Why are some people finding it difficult to access it, is it that there are stringent conditions attached to that? You know that once anybody wants to go for a government loan he or she must be serious about what to do with the loan. For me I can actually go for it if I want but I have decided to work with my capital for now. If I must go for it, I will ensure that I have something outside of the industry to back up payment for the loan I want to collect. Many movie makers have actually gone for it, which is what has sustained some of them. They will take the loan, shoot the move, and will pay back at a stipulated time. Can you give a little background of your journey into the movie industry? I started acting from nursery school. I knew that there was something about me relating to acting. Everything about me is acting. I was in secondary school when I was discovered by late Patience Oseni, Omose and late Philip Achibong. I was discovered in a church as a drama person and from there I was introduced into Nollywood in 2000 that is 22 years ago. I decided to go back to school to get my certificate. I went back to school, finished, furthered my education and returned to the industry in 2017.