Following a data report on road crashes for year 2021, provided by the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, stating that the total Road Traffic Crashes from January to November, 2021 is 11672. Citing that the highest number of crashes was recorded in Ogun state with a total of 1113 crashes, and followed by FCT with 1003 crashes, Bayelsa state was said to record the fewest crashes with just 39 RTCs within the period under consideration. Reacting to the FRSC figures, the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, TRACE, said, it is not disputing the FRSC report, because it is also receiving crash reports from the Nigeria Police, rather it presented a well detailed crash report early in the year, which it says, is complete and comprehensive as it is collated from all the traffic corridors covered by the agency. -Advertisement- The disparity in data not withstanding, statements from from Tunde Akinbiyi, the Public Relations Officer, said, “We have strategies in place to frontally tackle and reduce the number of road crashes within our state to an appreciable level in the current year. Even though road crashes are inevitable it is inevitable as long as multiple activities on the roads subsists, yet, the Ogun State traffic agency is avidly determined to drastically reduce the figure through successive operational strategies aimed at firming up control in their 12 major traffic corridors. Even though road crashes are inevitable it is inevitable as long as multiple activities on the roads subsists, yet, the Ogun State traffic agency is avidly determined to drastically reduce the figure through successive operational strategies aimed at firming up control in their 12 major traffic corridors. Many traffic watchers who will like to see a reduction in the number of road crashes across the country to conform to W.H.O’s Global Acceptable Limit of 5 deaths in 100,000 people per annum, said the renewed determination of TRACE reduce the number of crashes in the state is indeed a welcomed development. According to CDR. Seni Ogunyemi, the TRACE Corps Commander/CEO, “The drive to reduce the number of crashes on Ogun roads started since late last year at our 6th annual Corps Commander Conference with the theme, ‘Panacea For Our Traffic Woes: Improving Road Safety Through Technological Driven Road and Traffic Management’, where Professor kayode Oyesiku, an expert in transport technology elaborated ways to apply technology for improving road safety and ultimately reduce number of crashes on the roads. POLL According to him, the first step taken by the agency since the beginning of the year was to accentuate and effectively provide traffic management and prompt rescue service throughout the 12 Ogun major traffic corridors in the state, including; the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Atan-Lusada-Agbara-Badagry Expressway, Interchange-Sagamu-Ijebu/Ode-Benin/Ore Expressway, Abeokuta-Kobape-Siun-Interchange Expressway, and Lafenwa/Rounder-Olorunda-Aiyetoro-Imeko-Ilara Border among others. Ogunyemi assured that the agency has the capacity and capability to fulfill its core values geared towards reducing road traffic crashes on the 12 Ogun major traffic corridors and are well captured with the acronym TRACE. T- Training; Re-Training and Re-Certification of Drivers to Secure and Guarantee Investments, as well as, lives and property of road users. R- Recovery and Prompt Evacuation to Safe lives: property and encourage commerce, in order to stabilize the business environment. A- Assisting victims of road traffic crashes to promote hope for survival through timely response. C- Community based traffic management to ensure collective responsibility. E- Encourage and nature a road safety conscious generation. He added that high and low capacity vehicles for safety of lives and property have been deployed, prioritizing diversion zones, rerouting points, and where road reconstruction are ongoing. In addition, Cdr. Ogunyemi explained that clearance of obstruction is now timely with prompt rescue/emergency service and collaboration with other safety and security agencies. He stated further that the exercise involves all users of the road through the TRACE Traffic Whistle Blower Initiative, TRACE Emergency Traffic Service and TRACE Community- Based Traffic Management Scheme, against the backdrop that, “Safety on our roads is a collective responsibility.” He stressed that before the establishment of Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, TRACE, in 2005, Ogun State was tagged the “Mortuary of Nigeria” ostensibly because of the high rate of road traffic crashes along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, the busiest expressway in West Africa and 80% of which falls on Ogun traffic corridor. However, this tag, since the establishment of TRACE Corps in 2005, has been removed in fulfillment of the mission and vision statement of the Corps, whose core value is anchored on effective and efficient service delivery. The reason for most of the crashes on the Ogun corridor, according to him, is due essentially to fatigue and speeding. Ogun State, as it is known, is the Gateway State, where travellers and transporters travelling from the East to Lagos, the North to Lagos, from the West to Lagos, and from the South to Lagos – the economic capital of Nigeria would have to enroute through Ogun state – the Gateway state before getting there. You can imagine the distance from some of these regions from Lagos, some had to travel the whole to arrive Lagos, while some would only arrive the following day, making most of these drivers fatigued before arriving the Ogun corridor, a driver that is fatigued needs to rest, but most would say, “I’m almost there’, let me continue the journey”, which could prove fatal at the end. This trend gives rise to the high number of accidents on Ogun roads. Ogunyemi pointed out. Explaining further, he said, If you break down the data of those involved in many of the crashes on Ogun roads, you will discover that majority of the vehicles and people involved are not domiciled in the state, but transporters who are traversing the state to other places, mostly Lagos and neighbouring countries. In essence, if you are moving towards Lagos or out of Lagos, you must pass through Ogun State. Thus, Ogun State is key and central in the nations’ transportation network. Despite the challenge this poses to the state, Ogunyemi said, TRACE Corps is poised do its best at all times, working with its personnel to regularly organise seminars, workshops and conferences for stakeholders in the transportation sub-sector, comprising transport unions, religious organisations, media practitioners, academia, corporate world, particularly their drivers and other categories of road users. The whole essence of this is to further engage and interact with them, as a form of reminder on the need to observe and uphold traffic rules and regulations, so as to prevent the avoidable consequences of road traffic crashes. He said; “We also involve and engage the general public, particularly the motoring public in the safety drive through Community participation via the Community Based Traffic Management Scheme (TRACE Mayor, which comprises of volunteers, just like FRSC Special Marshals), TRACE Traffic Whistle Blower Initiative, TRACE Emergency Traffic Services (TETS). “This development seeks to encourage corporate and community participation in road safety, as well as focusing on emergency traffic challenges and rapid response, with the aim to ‘reduce fatality to serious’ and from ‘serious to minor’ and from ‘minor to zero’ as the case may be. Explaining further on how the officers are being trained to improve on service delivery, Ogunyemi said: “We organise capacity building workshops and colloquium for our operatives in order to improve and enhance their competence and ability. One of such colloquium is the Annual TRACE Corps Commander’s Conference. “Capacity building workshops are also organised by the Bureau of Establishment and Training in Ogun State in this regard. “Moreover, the Ogun State Bureau of Information Technology, Ogun TECHUB, has also just trained 100 TRACE Corps operatives on how to use digital technology to enhance their capacity and capability for improved efficiency.” He enumerated. He also commended the Ogun State Government, under the leadership of Prince Dapo Abiodun ( MFR), who created the ministry of transportation, under the supervision of Engr. Gbenga Dairo, as honourable commissioner, to formulate a strategic transportation master plan, with a vision and mission of a multi-modal transport network and system, for efficient and effective utilization of human and financial resources towards improved, safe, reliable and accessible mobility options for citizens and for commerce to thrive, more so as an investment destination of choice. Please find below summary of 3-months of year-on-year data of road crashes in Ogun state for 2020-2022. 1ST Quarter Road Traffic Crashes (January To March) 2020 As Witnessed By Trace Corps Total : Crashes: 182* Deaths: -41* Injuries: 287 1ST Quarter Road Traffic Crashes (January To March) 2021 As Witnessed By Trace Corps Total : Crashes: 201 *Deaths: 61* Injuries: 415 1st Quarter Road Traffic Crashes (January To March) 2022 As Witnessed By Trace Corps Total: Crashes: 155 * Deaths: – 61 * Injuries: 214