LAGOS  – Red Star Express Plc , has reemphasised the importance of safety within the organization and the society at large, which has resulted in the implementation of various measures and guidelines that have enabled the company to stay true to its corporate philosophy of people, service, and profit. As it marks the World Day for Safety and Health at Work on April 28, the company made bold statement for its workers and is also taking some concrete action with regards to safety and welfare. The foremost logistics company also added a fire truck to its a wide range of cutting-edge trucks. -Advertisement- This is in line with its relentless commitment to the safety of its personnel and the wider community, Mr. Auwalu Badamasi Babura, the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Red Star, Mr. Auwalu Badamasi Babura, in a statement, said that the development is an integral part of the company’s safety compliance guide, and a renewed commitment to safety across all subsidiaries, business units, and communities. The CEO noted that this resounding commitment to safety and the heavy investment in fleet and other sophisticated equipment has kept accident rate at Red Star at a record low and facilitated an enabling environment for staff. He also revealed that Red Star Express Plc’s current structure allows for the training and certification of operatives—truckers and couriers—which serves as a guide in ensuring that the operatives are fully equipped with adequate knowledge of the dos and don’ts while fulfilling the expected delivery promise made to the organisation’s customers and in the proper handling of the company’s assets. Speaking further, Mr Babura disclosed that specialised trainings for front line truck operatives are custom-built trainings which provide up-to-date safety and security knowledge to help operatives prepare and respond to incidents whilst on duty. POLL “We urge all fleet operatives in our industry to take these trainings to improve workplace health and safety. For the fully equipped fire truck, our goal is not only to serve Red Star, but also to provide much needed support to the wider community when the need arises”, he added. Red Star Express Plc is a Licensee of Federal Express (FedEx) Corporation, the world’s largest delivery solutions provider. It has over 150 offices in Nigeria; with international offices in Niger Republic, Burkina Faso, and Benin Republic.