ABUJA – Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) on Tuesday donated a number of items including washing machine, coolers, Mosquito nets to the management of Piwoyi Primary Healthcare Centre, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes. Independent reports that Piwoyi Primary Healthcare Centre is along Airport road, in Abuja Area Municipal Council (AMAC) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Speaking during the occasion, Jime Emmanuel, the Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of NSC, said the items were to help the Healthcare Centre perform optimally in their job of providing health services to the populace. -Advertisement- “Our gathering today is predicated on the deep sense of responsibility of the Management of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council to play their part in Nation building and empowerment of Nigerian Citizens. It is in this regard that this project is being executed today.” “Upon inspection of Primary Health Care Centres around the Federal Capital Territory, the Piwoyi Primary Health Care Centre attracted the attention of the Council’s Abuja Liaison Office, and as such was graciously selected as one of the Centres to benefit from this year’s project.” “It is with great joy and humility, that we are here today to make this presentation of the under listed items to Piwoyi Primary Health Care Centre, Abuja”, he said. Among the items donated were Rechargeable Small and big sized lanterns, Philip Iron, Towels, Mosquito nets, Bed Sheets, Blankets, Buckets, Rechargeable Fans, washing machines among others. Emmanuel expressed desire to see the items put to judicious use by the management of Piwoyi Primary Healthcare Centre, stressing that only when that is done that the gesture could touch the lives of the members of the host community of the Centre. POLL Dr. Fatima Mohammed Yusuf, while receiving the items on behalf of the Centre expressed gratitude for the gifts saying such gestures should be encouraged and emulated for the benefits of the society. Dr. Yusuf, who represented the Health Ministry, noted that the importance of health cannot be overemphasized, stressing that a healthy society is a wealthy society.