A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Modestus Umenzekwe, has advised opposition political parties seeking to rule Nigeria from 2023 to find jobs elsewhere, saying there is no vacancy for them in Aso Rock. Umenzekwe, a member of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) Board, who stated this while addressing journalists in Lagos on Saturday, said that it had been in the character of APC to spring surprises when the opponents least expect. He stressed: “Our party shall spring more surprises come 2023. The opponents will know that APC, as the number one party in Nigeria and the biggest party in Africa, will win the next presidential election come 2023. -Advertisement- “So, I want to say, there is no vacancy in Aso Villa in 20 maintained that with the calibre of people in the race in the party, I have no doubt in his mind that APC will win. “I am very sure that each and every one of them are eminently qualified. Their credentials speak for them, and you see, many of them have served in this administration, while others have been in government before. “Each and every one of them has left an indelible signature and landmark achievements in their various sectors, their accomplishments speak for them. Any one of them that is chosen is capable of delivering victory to APC.” Umenzekwe maintained that the high number of aspirants for the position of president in the party showed democracy in action, adding, “It is democracy at play. Nobody is denied anything and that is the best way to ensure representative democracy and inclusivity. “You must understand that when you exclude some interested party members in the race, you are automatically brewing internal party wrangling, withdrawal of support, outright anti-party activities and implosion. POLL “Remember what happened to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015, when many party stalwarts left the party with their teeming supporters, obviously due to lack of internal party democracy. “If you are excluded from a process in which you have genuine interest, you begin to have hatred for the party. But, when you allow all those who are interested in contesting to do so, nobody will feel excluded. “You go there, try your luck and come out happy that you are not disenfranchised. So, the more they are in number, the merrier. This is democracy in action.” Umenzekwe maintained that the APC as a party had phenomenal characteristics of putting its house in order, stressing, “Our ability to put our house in order has become legendary and phenomenal. Remember when the issue of chairmanship of the party appeared to be an issue, but what happened? Our dear president and leader of the party, Muhammadu Buhari, known for his political sagacity, astuteness and strategy, came up with the idea that enthroned Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu, the former governor of Nasarawa State, as the national chairman and everybody became happy again as one family. “Don’t be surprised that before the day of the primaries, some of these aspirants will on their own go for alignments and alliances based on mutual understanding. So, APC is warming up to produce a widely acceptable candidate whom Nigerians as a whole will vote into the Villa.” Umenzekwe, who maintained that the N100million Expression of Interest form by the party was charged in the interest of the party, disclosed that APC had been able to implement the promises it made to the people, hence the need to vote it to power again in 2023. He stated: “In the area of implementation of the party manifesto, APC has achieved a lot. Our achievements are so huge that they make it easier for people to develop the appetite and hunger to vote us back to the Villa. “Our pedigree, our achievements speak for us as a party. APC under President Muhammadu Buhari has achieved more than the PDP’s 16 years administration, in road infrastructure, works and housing, in agriculture, making sure we produce what we eat and eat what we produce. “Do you know that this government has done well in security contrary to insinuations from a few quarters and when juxtaposed against the quantum and number of insecurity in the land? Without the way this government is tackling and strategically fighting insecurity, the country would have been overrun by bandits and insurgents. “I will admit there are still security challenges all over the country, but it didn’t start with the APC government. After all, we decimated some of these things in the north before these other ones started springing up. “Nigeria is not the only country with security challenges. It is the same thing all over the world. We are working. Both the states and the Federal Government are working to make sure that those things are brought under control. “Again, as I said, the APC-led government is being run seamlessly. The executive, the legislature and the judiciary are working together as one family. The aim is to really ensure harmony among the three arms of government. It is by having a peaceful polity that development can make any headway to our dear country.”