LAFIA – Abdullahi Sule, the governor of Nasarawa State at weekend warned the Migili (Koro) nation and people of the State to avoid politics of bitterness and rancor amongst themselves for the sake peace in the state. Governor Sule, sound this warning when he Grace the occasion to marked the 25 years on throne of His Royal Majesty Dr. Ayuba Agwadu the Zhe Migili (Koro) at Agyaragu Jenkwen development area in Obi local government area of the Nasarawa State. Sule, who was represented by his deputy Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, said what peace cannot give you violent cannot provide hence the need to embrace peace amongst ourselves in the state. -Advertisement- The deputy governor said Nasarawa State is one the most peaceful state in the country because of the effort and support from the traditional rulers in the state. According to Akabe,” Peace and security we are enjoying in Nasarawa state is the effort of traditional rulers. I want to call on all citizens in the state not to allow security to be one man business we are aware of unfortunate incident that happened Friday along Gudi Akwanga road. “This time politics is heating up I want to employ all citizens of this state to maintain peace, Nasarawa state belong to all us some will win some will lost, those who lost should take the defeat in good fate,” Akabe noted. On his goodwill massage Justice Sidi Bage the Emir of Lafia, who also in attendance during the jubilee celebration of His Royal Majesty Dr. Ayuba Agwadu, said the present administration under leadership of governor Abdullahi has kept all the traditional rulers together was the reason why Nasarawa state is sited as good example of peace loving state in the country. He explained that they were here to cerebrated one of their own as body of traditional rulers in the state which Zhe Migili is represented POLL Justice Sidi Bage, also said that Migili people are known with peace which represent the attribute of Zhe Migili Dr. Ayuba Agwadu. He further explained that it has never been the habit of Migili (Koro) man to point out accusing finger to his neighbor because of peaceful nature of their living in the state. On his speech Dr. Ayuba Agwadu the first- class paramount ruler of Migili (Koro) nation expressed immense gratitude to God Almighty for making it possible for him to attain the milestone of 25-years on the throne.He also expressed gratitude to his subjects for their support and cooperation in steering the throne.The event which had in attendance dignitaries from all walks of life held at his palace in Agyaragu, Obi Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. In attendance were deputy governor of the state, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura (APC, Nasarawa South) and the Emir of Lafia, HRH Justice Sidi Bage (rtd.) among others. The first-class monarch also conferred traditional titles to deserving individuals in recognition of their selfless service to humanity over the years notably who governor Abdullahi Sule, as Santuraki of Migili nation, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura Male Migili, Dr. Joseph Haruna Kgbo, Hajiya Migili amongst other. Others who also Grace the occasion include: the Andoma of Doma, HRH Alhaji Aliyu Ogah Onawo and the representative of the revered Aku Uka of Wukari, His Royal Majesty Chief Manu Ishaku Ada Ali.