Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, heartily felicitate the good people of the state and the entire Muslim ummah on the occasion of the Id-el-Fitr Sallah celebration, marking the end of the Ramadhan fasting He said the Ramadan fasting had in the last one month inculcated the virtues of patience, devotion, self-control, humility, kindness, forgiveness, altruism and other virtues of Islam that should be extended beyond the month of Ramadhan for a just and peaceful society. The Governor reminded the people on Zakatul Fitr or giving out measures of foodstuff to the needy at the end of the fasting period, to give them a sense of belonging during the festive period. Governor Buni prayed to Almighty Allah to accept the acts of ibadah worship and supplications made for the full return of peace and prosperity in Yobe state and Nigeria. The Governor admonished the people to continue supporting government policies and programmes assuring that his administration is committed to providing more infrastructural developments to improve the lives of the people. He charged the people to be conscious and vigilant about strange movements and objects, and to report such suspicious movements and objects in their vicinity to security agents. Governor Buni urged the people to remain peaceful and law-abiding as the 2023 electioneering sets in, saying, peace is a necessary tool for successful election and development. Accordingly, the Governor called on the people to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards to fully participate in the 2023 general election, POLL “All Political Parties are enjoined to promote peaceful electioneering, devoid of rancour to promote the spirit of sportsmanship in politics and to strengthen Nigeria’s democracy, ” I also wish to commend the Nigerian Armed Forces, other security operatives and the Vigilante groups for their patriotism and gallantry in the fight against insurgency and other crimes,” Buni said. He called for a peaceful celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr Sallah festival with prayers for a rewarding cropping season and prosperity in Yobe State and Nigeria. Similarly, the Emir of Fika and Chairman of Yobe State Council of Traditional Rulers, Dr Muhammad Ibn Abali Muhammad Idrissa in a Sallah broadcast message also thanked Almighty Allah for the successful completion of the Ramadan fasting month, “we’re wishing you a happy Sallah celebration. We want to also draw your attention on peaceful coexistence”. “It has been observed that kidnappers nowadays use abandoned and uncompleted buildings to perpetrate their evils of hiding the abducted persons. We are calling on all ward heads, village heads and district heads to monitor closely these types of places and report any suspicious movement to the appropriate authorities”. “The Emirate however wishes to appreciate the relentless efforts of the security agencies in the fight against criminality. We are also appealing to the religious leaders to intensify prayers for peace, development of the Emirate, Yobe and Nigeria at large”. “We’re hereby directing all households to plant at least one tree seedling in order to fight desertification and erosion in our respective surroundings while calling on our farmers to plant early for the avoidance of the consequences of a shortage of rainfall. We’re praying for the safe return of our lesser Hajj pilgrims. Wishing all happy Sallah celebrations”.