LAGOS  – For the umpteenth time in 2022, the price of Jet A1, oth­erwise known as aviation fuel has climbed in the Nige­rian market. This time around, the price has skyrocketed to N700 per litre in some airports, while it sells for between N685 and N690 per litre in others. The airlines through its umbrella body; Airline Oper­ators of Nigeria (AON) has threatened to suspend oper­ations from Monday due to the high price of the product. -Advertisement- But, the operators seem to be in a dilemma on airfares, as there are indications that they may not further in­crease the fares as they did about two months ago, de­spite the continuous rise in the price of the product in the local market. The airlines had in March increased the base fare to N50,000, an action, which drew condemnation and in­vestigation from industry stakeholders and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FC­CPC), who accused them of price fixing. AON said that the product is now being sold at N700 per litre in the country. The airlines said that the situation was biting them hard. Also, the committee set up the Federal Government, on aviation fuel, which includ­ed five members of AON and aviation fuel marketers to de­velop a new pricing template for the Jet fuel, failed to reach a compromise. POLL The committee had sat for about two weeks, but a source close to the committee confid­ed in our correspondent over the weekend that members failed to reach a common ground. Apart from the indigenous carriers, it was gathered that the situation is also affecting the foreign airlines, especial­ly those from the West Afri­can countries that have now resorted to fueling their air­craft from their bases, rather than in Nigeria. However, unlike in the past when the product was scarce in the local market, our cor­respondent can confirm that the aviation fuel is available in virtually all the airports, but the high rate was causing disruption to flight services in the local scene. Besides, AON, in a state­ment to journalists on Friday evening threatened to ground operations from Monday due to the high price of the prod­uct in the local market. The AON copied Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Avia­tion and Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Au­thority (NCAA) in the letter circulated to the media. AON said that it had con­tinued to subsidise its opera­tions in the last four months despite the steady and astro­nomical hike in the price of JetA1 and other operating costs. It lamented that over time, aviation fuel price has risen from N190 per litre to N700 currently, maintaining that no airline in the world could absorb the sudden shock from such an astronomical rise over a short period. “While aviation fuel world­wide is said to cost about 40 per cent of an airline’s oper­ating cost globally, the pres­ent hike has shut up Nigeria’s operating cost to about 95 per cent.