JOS – The Executive Chairman of Langtang North local government council of Plateau state Joshua Ubandoma Laven on Friday charged banks not to issue N200 million naira loan request to Hon Zulfa Rimven, an imposter who has been sacked severally by court of competent jurisdictions in the state. According to a statement issued in Jos and signed by Mr. Dogo Nanzip the media aide to Chairman Langtang North Laven, said it has come to the notice of Laven that one Mr. Zulfa Rimven an imposter has applied for a loan of two hundred million (N200,000,000) naira on behalf of Langtang North Local Government. He explained that the loan which has gotten the approval of the Langtang North Legislative arm and the Plateau State Ministry for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs is meant to make the imposter rich to the detriment of poor Taroks taxpayers who will be tasked to repay the loan. -Advertisement- Laven warned the management of Zenith Bank, Guarantee Trust Bank (GTB), and Union Bank not to approve such loans or enter into any business deals on behalf of Langtang North Local Government Council with the said Mr. Zulfa Rimven as there are several court rulings ordering him to vacate office and stop parading himself as the Chairman of Langtang North Local Government. “It is on record that the said Mr. Zulfa is not the Chairman of Langtang North Local Government Council, the Federal Court of Appeal Jos division has on Friday, May 6th, 2022 upheld a high court judgment which returned Hon. Ubandoma Joshua Laven to complete his tenure in office as the Executive Chairman of Langtang North Local Government Council.” The statement further stressed “It is disheartening that where salaries of local government staff and teachers have not been paid for 4months, the imposter wants to further impoverished the poor staff and pensioners.” He pointed out that the people of Langtang North whose mandate is being robbed must be warned of the activities of the imposter chairman and to assure that the elected chairman Hon. Ubandoma Joshua Laven will not fold his arms and watch our common heritage and wealth of the people being looted by the impostor.