The Lagos – Abeokuta expressway inbound Lagos lane was completed in November last year and the completed lane was reopened on Thursday 16, December, well ahead of the yuletide season following months of diversion of traffic to one lane, while construction was being carried out by Julius Berger on the lane now being used. There was a gale of excitement expressed by the road users after the lane was completed and confidently believed the construction of the second lane was going to commence in quick succession to totally exterminate their tortuous years of commuting the expressway. Alas six months down the line, they realised that their expectations were actually a mirage. The promise to resume work on the Abeokuta inbound lane has been reneged, subjecting those travelling that lane to suffer some of the most unimaginable discomforts and vehicle wreckage conditions you could ever experience. -Advertisement- Following the tide of cries and criticisms against the federal government by the general public for abandoning the work, I spoke to Engineer Azeez Rafiu, the Project Supervisor, to give the following clarifications; the view of the Federal government about the unfinished work, what is the government planning to do, what kind of intervention are they planning and when will the construction works resume. Engr. Rafiu said, “The motoring public should appreciate the level of work done so far on that road, especially when you consider the state it was before reconstructed, in respect to the lane you are talking about, construction work has progressed significantly from the Ile-Zik, which is the starting point and has progressed beyond Abule-Egba bridge. “Arrangements have been concluded by the Federal Government to mobilise the contractor back to sight after all the necessary processes with the Ministry of Works of Housing have been completed. I’m assuring you that work will soon resume on that portion of the road.” He added. In his own response, Engineer Kayode Popoola, Controller of Works of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Lagos, said, “The project is not abandoned. The funding of this project is through the Sukkuk. Any moment from now, the payment for job done will be effected and the contractor will continue with the project.” Recall, sometime in September last year, the Federal Government stated that this year is the deadline for the completion of the expressway in order to ameliorate sufferings on the highway. POLL Engineer Kayode Popoola, disclosed the position of the government while inspecting the progress of work on the highway. Popoola, who was represented by Engineer Wale Adebote, the Lagos state Project Coordinator, explained that the contract which was awarded in 2018, is in sections, each covering about 14 widths, saying section one starts from ILe-Zik Bus Stop down to Ota flyover. According to him, the contractors did not commence work on the road since it was awarded, until 2020. He highlighted some of the challenges faced in the course of executing the project to include the flood flash points at Ajala Bus and Kola Bus Stops. Explaining how the challenges were tackled, he said: “We constructed large culverts on both sides for effective flow of flood. With this, the problem of flooding in those areas will be reduced.” Aside from the worsening state of the abandoned road users are subjected to sickening traffic bottlenecks on that lane leading to vehicle breakdown, rough driving, crashes, carnage and deaths. Recounting his experience, Femi Adewole, an Accountant, who lives in Ahmadiyah area of Lagos, said, “It was 5.47am, on a Monday in March, after one of the early rains that fell during the night, I was to go for my International passport capturing in Abeokuta, slated for 8.30am, but trouble started when we got to Ajegunle Bus-stop, before tollgate where we were stuck among hordes of vehicles snuggling bumper to bumper, owing to the large pool of water in the large pot holes scattered on the road. “Passengers on board became exasperated by the deafening cacophony of blaring horns, from insults garbed in vulgar words exchanging carelessly between drivers, endless arguments, some exchange of blows between drivers of bashed vehicles, and worse of all the endless experienced by those in a hurry to get to their destinations. I ended up getting to by 10.30am” Femi said. Regular commuters plying the expressway, especially from Lagos to Sango-Ota, Ifo or Abeokuta and other towns in Ogun state for various businesses are recounting their daily sufferings in traffic gridlocks, that has become perennial, putting the blame at the door of the government and the contractor who they believe are in connivance with government officials to delay the completion of the road project. On his part, Friday Akpan, a truck driver, who expressed so much anger, said: “This is my first time of coming back to this highway since a year ago; my employer is aware of my hatred for the road since my truck overturned and spilled its content in Moshalasi Bus stop early last year and I almost lost my life. After my case two of my colleagues suffered the same fate, the latest one happened March this year when his truck overturned at the crater filled with rain water at the old tollgate.” Speaking about the measures put in place to manage the frightening daily traffic bottlenecks caused by vehicles driving against traffic (one-way) to avoid the gullies on the lane inbound Sango, Ahmed Umar, Sector Commander, FRSC, Ogun State, said, “After heavy rains, we use to hire water pumping machines to drain out water from the potholes to make it easier for vehicles to properly navigate through them. “We also created an outlet in the road median on the Lagos side which could be used by motorists to avoid the potholes, especially after rains or when we are draining the water and we created another median opening on the Ogun side after the major potholes for vehicles to return back to their lane. “Aside these, we also carry out road audits providing every necessary information about the state of the roads and incidences to the headquarters that relates it to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing for actions.” Commander Umar added. According to Cdr. Seni Ogunyemi, Corps Commander/CE, TRACE, Ogun State, “The major cause of the traffic bottlenecks especially at the tollgate axis of the Lagos-Abeokuta expressway, is the impatience displayed by some drivers who break the one lane rule to form 2 to 3 lanes of vehicles going the same direction, thereby inhibiting the vehicular movement of vehicles coming from the opposite direction. “For instance, a number of motorists are now diverting to face oncoming traffic with the excuse that the other lane inbound Sango-Ota is unmotorable, leading to traffic gridlocks at the tollgate axis especially during rush hours of the day. However our Command can always be found working in collaboration with sister agencies to control and ease traffic flow.” He added. “Oga, we get gofment for dis kontry so? See how bad the road dey naw!, e don reach more than sis months wey we don dey cry about this side of the expressway and notin don happen”. These were the lamentations of Okafor Fredrick, the commercial bus driver whom I boarded his vehicle from Agege on my way to Papa-Lanto in Ogun State enroute Sango-Ota tollgate. Like in a macabre dance, the driver meandered the vehicle through the very many gullies and craters dotting the unconstructed Lagos – Abeokuta expressway, as we approach the toll gate, passengers had to persevere with the giddiness that follows, and the knocking together of shoulders and sometimes heads of fellow passengers as if to wake them up to the breaking of a new day. The state of the road has become the worst nightmare traumatising road users. The current state of the road is far worse now owing to the diversion of traffic to the lane when the other lane was under construction. The stretch of the road between U-TURN in Lagos to singer in Sango Ota, is roughly about 10 kilometers, but, it is dotted with over 168 deep potholes looking more like emerging gullies and craters that will most certainly panel beat any vehicle into a grotesque shape when driven once or twice on it. Shades of complaints and public outcry had been expressed by residents of the communities along this road. In a chat with me, Hon Seye Sotunde, a former council official at the Surelere local Government Area, who built his residence in one of the towns serviced by the road, said, it is quite frustrating that a key economic road like this can be made to deteriorate to this extent. Sotunde further said, the chassis of his vehicle has been badly impacted by the perennial topsy-turvy daily experienced on his way daily from his business place at Ikeja. It is even more irking that local roads constructed by the Lagos state government seems to be doing better and most of the vehicles that ought to use the highways now detour to use these local roads thereby making them busy also like the highway too. He, therefore, called on the Federal Government to hurriedly do something to assuage the discomfort presently experienced by users of the Sango-Ota inbound lane of the road.