ABUJA – There was tension at the Fed­eral Capital Territory (FCT), as some residents of the Abu­ja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) barricaded the FCT’s main gate, preventing FCTA workers from entering the sec­retariat premises. Residents protesting the administration’s decision to postpone the swearing-in of the newly elected council chairmen and councilors said that the ad­ministration is attempting to deprive them of their mandates by using a kangaroo judgment to extend the tenure of the de­parting chairmen by one year. The protesters, who were vis­ibly seen chanting ‘FCT Minis­ter you must swear in’ carried placards with inscriptions, ‘You cannot access your office if you do not handover,’ ‘Please release our victory’ ‘Give us our AMAC mandate today’ ‘You took an oath before, you cannot take an­other one again,’ amongst other inscriptions. -Advertisement- Hon. Shekonlumi Yakubu Adamu, one of the FCT youth leaders who led the protesters to the FCT minister’s gate ex­plained that as indigenes of FCT, everyone knew that an election was conducted in Feb­ruary this year and the PDP won three area councils, while the APC won the rest councils. “The chairmen were sup­posed to be sworn in today, but to our surprise, we woke up on the eve of yesterday, to get a press release from the Minister that the swearing-in will not hold to­day again. We do not know the reason behind that. “The only reason was that there was a court order restrain­ing the minister from swearing the new chairmen because of tenure elongation. “So, we want to know the reason why the swearing can­not take place today because the election has been conducted andwonunderthe2010electoral acts. The election that brought in the outgoing chairman was the 2010 electoral Act and even the oncoming chairmen were also the 2010 electoral Act. “So why will they now come at the eve of the swearing-in and tell us that it will no longer hold because of tenure elongation. We are saying no to that and we are insisting that the swear­ing-in must take place today. “