SYLVESTER ENOGHASE As part of efforts to ensure reforestation reduces biodiversity loss, and in turn boost food security and support the net-zero emission agenda, Seplat Energy, has launched a special sustainability campaign tagged “Seplat Tree 4Life.” Seplat Energy, the first Nigeria Company to complete a dual listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGX) disclosed that the “Tree4Life” is part of its commitment to address the effects of climate change that would not only sabotage the Nigerian economy but also inhibit it from relishing the inherent gains of the global energy transition agenda. -Advertisement- To make this happen, it said it will embark on planting one million trees, out of which 75 percent will be economic trees every year, to make 5 million trees in five years to mitigate climate change and carbon emission. Timipre Sylva, Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum, who led other dignitaries to the hybrid event on Tuesday, at the Musa Yar’Adua Memorial Centre, Abuja commended Seplat for the initiative. He noted that Seplat has proved to be a very responsible company judging by its carefully-thought out programmes. Sylva said that gas will be the pathway to clean energy, which was why the government is committed to creating a lot of opportunities for local operators to leverage. He said, “The PIA will enable a lot of gas projects but it behoves operators in the industry to also take advantage of the opportunity provided by the PIA to deepen the gas business in Nigeria. “And to achieve that, we have declared the year 2021 to the year 2030 as the decade of gas and we are not just declaring it, we are creating a roadmap to achieving the decade of gas.” POLL He noted that President Muhammadu Buhari set a target for 2060 for net zero-emission, and he is happy that Seplat is leading this drive. He said, ’The government is creating pathways for operators to achieve the net-zero targets. The PIA is one of them and our pathway is gas. It behoves operators in the industry to leverage the PIA to achieve net-zero. “We’re creating another pipeline corridor from West Africa to Morocco, aside from the AKK gas pipeline project,” he asserted. Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor, the Minister of State, Environment, represented by Mrs. Powell Victoria, while speaking at the event, said Seplat’s tree planting drive aligns with the global environmental protection agenda, aside from protecting the Nigerian environment and ensuring sustainable growth and development. She reckoned that climate change remains the biggest challenge faced by the world, adding that collaborations and cooperation were needed to aid in reducing carbon emissions, guarantee environmental protection, and eventually end deforestation. “After COP26, Buhari signed a bill on the Climate Change Act in October 2021 aimed at formulating programmes around climate change. The law has a legal framework to ensure climate resilience, adoption of climate action into governance priorities”, she added. Bryant Orjiako, the immediate past Chairman of Seplat, in his remarks, called for concerted efforts by stakeholders in the energy sector to work to reduce the carbon footprint by embracing cleaner and healthier energy. He said reforestation would reduce the carbon dioxide in the air, prevent erosion and contribute to food security. Orjiako recalled that in 1990, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) produced its First Assessment Report with three major conclusions. The conclusions, he stated, were that global temperatures had risen by 0.3-0.6C over the last century; that humanity’s emissions were adding to the atmosphere’s natural complement of greenhouse gases, and that addition would be expected to result in warming. He underscored the need to note that the warnings of the IPCC from over 30 years ago, not only have come to pass but were now direr in 2022. The former Seplat Chairman said the February 2022 report showed that climate change impacts were already widespread and more severe to adapt to than expected, thereby stressing the urgency for action on climate change. He said the world is in a global energy crisis. “Energy crisis is global. Everyone is in crisis and the way and manner it’s solved are localised. In Nigeria, more than 60 percent of the population is in total darkness. “Gas is a cleaner form of energy. More than 80 percent of the energy needed is in homes. We should not deforest; you worsen environmental degradation when you do. We are encouraging reforestation instead. CO2 emissions will also be worsened. We are helping in LPG penetration so that people will not use trees to cook. “Seplat Tree 4 Life initiative will boost nigeria sustainable food production” Orjiako said trees must be planted everywhere to check the spate of deforestation. He said, “There is complete deforestation that is happening with the provision of energy in our environment. The more deforestation, not only are we encouraging climate change infestation, you are emitting more carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere”. “We want to emphasise that the tree planting exercise is to check deforestation and encourage reforestation. Everywhere you are, you must plant trees. “In Seplat, we made a deliberate decision that ESG (environmental, social, and governance) is a major component in doing business. Nigeria has since committed to net-zero carbon emission by 2060 and climate change actions by 2030, though Seplat has chosen 2024 to end its CO2 emission. Roger Brown, Managing Director/ Chief Executive officer of Seplat, said Nigeria has shown commitment to cutting carbon emissions. Brown said the tree planting initiative, which has 75 percent as economic trees, would essentially start with five states – Edo, Delta, Imo, and two Northern states in the country. He said, “We will deliberately engage women, youth, and communities for sustainable food production and a sustainable environment through tree planting in their communities and mindset change. We have adopted a two-pronged approach to advocate for Tree Planting and Protection to instill the consciousness of the importance of tree planting and the responsibility of citizens to ensure its success. “Another approach is to plant trees – run afforestation/restoration programmes with a commitment to plant one million trees annually, comprising majorly economic trees’’, he added. According to a report published in January 2020 by Mckinsey, the oil and gas industry, directly or indirectly, accounts for 42 percent of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The report further posits that if the world is to meet its climate-change goals, the industry has a role to play, as its operations account for nine percent of man-made greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, it produces the fuels that create another 33 percent of global emissions. In light of the above, Brown said, Seplat Energy initiated several decarbonisation projects to ensure a significant reduction in our carbon footprint as an energy company. `’We are deeply committed to sustainable business practices and strongly determined to play our part in mitigating climate change by incrementally committing more resources towards developing strategic responses to the climate change challenge’’. He said the programme aims to restore and reforest, to solving biodiversity loss, and naturally increase their carbon sequestration, in line with SDG 13 on Climate Action, which seeks to reduce greenhouse gasses and fight climate change. Furthermore, it will boost food security and alleviate poverty through the building, strengthening, and empowering communities to plant economic trees that will provide food and fight hunger without destroying the environment (SDG 2 – Zero Hunger).