ABUJA  – Planned resumption of Kaduna-Abuja Rail operation by the Nigerian Railway Corporation, NRC, may not happen anytime soon after families of the abducted passengers of March 28, 2022 Abuja- Kaduna bound train attack vowed to stop the plan to resume the transport service. Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, had in a statement announced that Abuja-Kaduna train service would resume operation on July 29. The aggrieved family members disclosed this on Monday in Abuja at a press conference to register their displeasure at the way and manner the Nigerian government has been handling the tragic event. -Advertisement- Mrs. Zara Aliyu, who spoke on behalf of the families said, they would not allow the train service to resume operation on the route until their family members who are being held hostage are released. She also called on the government to put adequate security measure in place in to guarantee the safety of the prospective passengers. The group also accused the Minister of being insensitive for running around at a stadium in Port Harcourt recently where he declared his intention to run for the office of the President instead of working toward rescuing the victims. According to Zara, “We are the families of abducted passengers of NRC AK9 Abuja- Kaduna bound Train attacked on March 2022. “Today marks the 42nd day our loved ones have been held hostage. It has been 42 long days of living in fear, virtually no sleep, no bath, wearing the same clothes under the scorching sun and rain and exposed extreme environmental hazards. POLL “The emotional psychology, mental and physical torture arising from these conditions is only imaginable. “We read in the news that one of the two pregnant women in captivity delivered her baby in the forest.” Giving birth is supposed to be a moment of joy ; how would it have been if this woman delivered her baby in the comfort of a maternity ward ? “ She said they were disappointed in the nonchallant attitude of the Minister towards the plight of the victims. She added that the NRC has not contacted them one week after the Presidential directive was issued that the management of Nigerian Railways Corporation should establish a Situation Room to give update on the rescue effort to the relatives. The families therefore, called for the intervention of the National Assembly to prevail on the relevant security agencies to ensure the safety and rescue of the victims. “Just a few days after March 28th, Mr. Amaechi was seen running around the stadium in Porth Harcourt where he declared his intention to become the next President of Nigeria. We had expected Mr. Amaech to be running around as to how to get his abducted passengers rescued and this is highly disappointing”