Unless something urgent is done, Kano Pillars, which was once the pride of the ancient city of Kano, would be heading to the Nigerian National League (NNL). Consequently, some fans of the club have reached out to privileged indigenes of the state to run to the rescue of the former CAF Champions League semifinalists if they hoped to see the once flamboy­ant club maintain the Nigeri­an topflight status. Speaking during different chats with our correspondent, the fans said the club had al­ways united both natives and other residents of Kano with their supports galvanizing the team in the times past, saying if the state govern­ment couldn’t do anything to arrest the situation, some well-to-do residents and indigenes should help out. -Advertisement- “There is nothing holding Kano Pillars down except money and I know we have people who can help this club,” Ibrahim Umar, a resident of Lagos but a staunch supporter of the Sai Masu Gida, told our correspondent. The fan who got famil­iar with our correspondent during the NPFL Super Four years ago at the Agege Sta­dium, where he adorned the kits of the Kano-based team, said the Sai Masu Gida was suffering from political issues, noting that those managing the club understood the true position. “The problem is politics; they have brought politics into the team and even the coaches and others know about this. “Kano Pillars are a great club and I am calling on people like Dangote and other rich people in Kano to come and help out. Others are doing it to their clubs,” he said. Speaking similarly, an­other Lagos based fan of the club and a friend of Umar, Mohammed Zungu, regretted the plight of the team. POLL “It is bad how the club is now; they are the only thing that keeps us happy when we are in Kano. “But the players are hungry and there is nothing anyone can do about it. If our gov­ernment cannot help out, let our people who have money help out. Everyone likes Pillars and whenever they are playing we all go out to support them whether you are our brothers or not,” Zu­ngu said.