Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail to a former Governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, to the tune of N500m. However, Justice Ekwo ordered that Okorocha be kept under the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), pending when the former governor will perfect his bail conditions. Apart from the bail bond of N500m with one surety in like sum, Justice Ekwo directed that the surety, a responsible, must be resident within the jurisdiction of the court. -Advertisement- The trial judge further ordered that the original title documents of the property must be taken to Abuja Geographical Information System(AGIS) for verification just as Okorocha was mandated to deposit his international passport at the court’s registry. Justice Ekwo added that Okorocha must not travel out of the country without the permission of the court. Specifically, the Court ordered that Okorocha’s surety must have a property in Abuja, not below N500m. Thereafter, the registrar will swear to an affidavit on the report of his findings, the court stated. More so, the court directed that the Nigerian Immigration Service must be alerted in writing by the Court registrar that the passport of the former governor is in the custody of the court and should not be allowed to travel out of the country without an order of the court. POLL Justice Ekwo held although bail is at the discretion of the court, however, “circumstances and conduct of the first defendant (Okorocha) will not make the court admit him to customary bail conditions.Equally admitted to bail by Justice Ekwo is Okorocha’s co-accused, Anyim Nyerere. In the case of Nyerere, the court ordered that he should continue on the administrative bail granted him by EFCC, for exhibiting good conduct while on bail. The court observed that since Nyerere did not tamper or jump his administrative bail given to him by the EFCC, he should remain on the same. Meanwhile, the court has adjourned the trial to November 6,7,8,9,10 and 11. Okorocha who was arraigned on Monday pleaded not guilty to the 17-count charge preferred against him and six others by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. The EFCC is prosecuting Okorocha on a 17-count criminal charge bordering on financial impropriety and money laundering. Okorocha was the governor of Imo state from 2011 to 2019, presently a Senator representing Imo West in the National Assembly. Also docked alongside Okorocha, were Anyim Nyerere Chinenye, Naphtali International Limited, Perfect Finish Multi Projects Limited, Consolid Projects Consulting Limited, Pramif International Limited, and Legend World Concepts Limited. The former governor was arraigned on Monday, May 30 by the EFCC. Part of the documents filed in court by the EFCC showed how the Senator awarded 12 contracts worth N20 billion in violation of the public procurement act. Court processes also stated how a government committee uncovered the sum of N112.8billion “dubious debts” that various banks owed the state during Okorocha’s tenure. When the charge was read to him on Monday, the former governor, said: “I understand the charge against me, but I am not guilty my lord”. All the other defendants also pleaded their innocence to the charge dated January 24.