Oleksandr Zinchenko was left in tears after celebrating Manchester City’s title triumph by draping the Ukrainian flag over the Premier League trophy. City clinched their fourth domestic crown in five years in dramatic fashion at the Etihad, pipping Liverpool at the summit of the table by a single point. Pep Guardiola’s side hit three goals in just six second half minutes to overhaul a two-goal deficit against Aston Villa before going on to seal a crucial 3-2 win on the final day of the season. And amidst the wild celebrations, an emotional Zinchenko was seen poignantly draping a Ukrainian flag over the Premier League trophy. The 25-year-old’s home nation is still under attack from Russian leader Vladimir Putin. -Advertisement- In emotional scenes after the match, the left-back lauded the support he’s been given by City and fans in England over the past few months. Speaking to Sky Sports, he said: “It’s unforgettable emotions for me, for all Ukrainians, which at the moment are starving, they are surviving in my country because of Russian aggression. I would love to bring this title to Ukraine because they all deserve it. “It means everything for me. I want to die for these people for all this support. What they have done for me during this toughest period of my life, I’m so appreciative and I’ll never forget this in my whole life. “I didn’t even think too much about football. We saw the support that I had. I hope we will keep going because this amazing club deserves everything.” With City trailing 2-0 in the second half, Zinchenko was one of three crucial changes that Guardiola made in a bid to try and turn the tide at the Etihad. Raheem Sterling and llkay Gundogan were also thrust into the action after the break, and it was the German midfielder stepped up to blitz the hosts back into the match with a rapid brace. Rodri also bagged a vital strike to ensure the Premier League title would remain in Manchester. After the match, Zinchenko was singled out by for praise by Jamie Redknapp for the courage he’s shown in recent weeks. Redknapp told Sky Sports: “I can only imagine what he’s been through this year. His country has been invaded, his friends and family, what’s going on. What he has done is give everyone at home so much hope because that lifts everybody. POLL “He’s an incredible footballer. He’s done an amazing job since he’s been here. When he came on today, he made a massive difference, his positional sense and going forward. He’s been a brilliant signing from the club. Fair to play him. It’s such heroic what he’s done.”