KANO – Frontline People’s Democratic Party Presidential candidate, and Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Muhammad, on Sunday night called on all Southerners vying to pick the presidential ticket of the party to shelved the idea in the interests of justice and fair play. Senator Muhammad who spoke on Kano at a meeting with PDP stakeholders ahead of the forthcoming primary election said that the north has been shortchanged for the plum job by thesouthern members going by the available statistical data. The Bauchi state governor whose speech was intermittently interrupted by thunderous applauses, explained that “out of PDP 16 years in power, the North only only served out two years.” -Advertisement- “It started with Obasanjo spending eight years in power, a slot for the South, then Yar’adua two years, a Northern slot and was followed by Jonathan who spent six years in a slot for the South. “As a result of this we deserve the slot. Despite the fact that my people in Bauchi want me to continue for another second term as governor, with my wealth of experience over time where I have influenced a lot of development, I have no choice but to offer my self to serve my fatherland” Senator Muhammad stated. The soft spoken ex Senator, Bauchi central said “You can see that we are adequately shortchanged and we demand that South allows us fulfill our tenure to catch up with them” “The South has been agitating for presidential slot without considering the fact that of the 16 years spent in power by the PDP the North had only two years. Bala Muhammad who stated that he was running for Presidency because of this obvious lapses noted that agitations by the southern chieftains to fly the ticket was antithetical to the principle of participatory democracy. POLL Sen Muhammad lamented the near comatose of the Nigeria’s economy and the security challenges, enjoined Nigerians to embrace for development and progress of the country. He further lamented that the allocations meant for states from the Nigerian National Petroleum Cooperation have not been disbursed for several months now and this has hindered a lot of development projects. Senator Bala Muhammad, said as President if elected he will replicate what he has done as Minister of FCT where they introduces reward system and strives to make many people Millionaires. “Our Government in office would not forget does who have helped us to power we will introduce reward system where many of our party faithfuls would enjoy”, Bala assured.