The Lagos Apex Lions Club has put smiles on the faces of the pupils of Wasimi Community School, donating a newly built four – rooms’ toilet blocks to the Wasimi Community School Maryland, Lagos State. Disclosing the reason for the gesture, Lion (Dr.) Matilda Braimoh, President, Lagos Apex Lions Club, stated that her Club carried out the project after a thorough prioritisation of the needs of the Wasimi Community School. Braimoh explained that she visited Wasimi Community School with the intention of carrying out the project of repainting the school walls and changing the chairs. -Advertisement- However, she said, there was a change in plans after she spoke to Mrs. Victoria Adedunni Kayode, Headmistress, Wasimi Community School who told her that their major need is the toilets for the nursery pupils. According to Dr. Matilda, she undertook the project with the support of Lion Kayode Oshinuga, District Governor, Lion Anita Okuribido, Region 3 Chairperson, and members of the Lions Club. Commenting, Lion Oshinuga stated that the Lion Club gave the Wasimi Community School what they desired. “Not only did we build toilets for them, but we also dug bole water and planted trees which will grow in the future,” he added. He also said that the Lions Club has many more projects to accomplish. Contributing, Lion Okuribido expressed her joy over the donation of the toilet. “As an environmentalist, every project the Lagos Apex has carried out is all about the environment,” she noted. POLL She appreciated Dr. Matilda and every member of the Lions Club for their contributions towards the success of the project. In addition, Okuribido addressed the people on the importance of hygiene and as well providing solutions to the needs of the communities. Dr. Matilda noted that the International Association of Lions Club is a humanitarian service giving back to the communities, to the people, and putting smiles on their faces. Responding, Mrs. Kayode, the Headmistress expressed her immense gratitude to the Lions Club for putting smiles on the faces of the pupils of Wasimi Community School. Similarly, the pupils in their excitement rendered thanksgiving songs to the Lions Club. According to Lion Blessing Umebali, District Chairperson on Media and Public Relations /Information,  environmental protection is one of the 5 Global service areas of the Lions Clubs International. Others are Vision, Hunger, Diabetes, and Childhood Cancer. “I congratulate Lagos Apex Lions Club through their club president, Lion Dr. Matilda Braimoh for a well thought out community project. According to her, the club did a thorough findings before embarking on what the school needs most importantly before embarking upon the project, because of what use is a project when it doesn’t add value to the beneficiaries.” She further stated that the school toilet, which was built by the club, will go a long way to ensure cleaner and healthier environment. Umebali, said, “With this toilet in place the school pupils will not defecate and  litter   the school premises with urine and faeces, which also cause environmental population.” 