The Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC),has offered recipes on how marginal field operators in Nigeria can access funds to bring their fields to production. The Chief Executive Officer of the commission,Engr. Gbenga Komolafe, spoke in Lagos at the Arbiterz conference,which was themed: “From License to oil: Fundraising for Marginal Fields”. He said the commission understands that funding is a critical success factor in bringing the fields to production -Advertisement- He said investors should consider private equity, capital market, strategic alliance and debt financing to bring their fields alive According to him,the Petroleum Industry Act,under section 95 (5) has also made provisions for holders of licence or lease by way of security, to assign, pledge, mortgage its interest, in whole or in part under the applicable licence or lease provided the consent of the commission is obtained. This provision,he said, has provided a safety net for the financiers to provide funds for the development of oil and gas assets in Nigeria. He emphasized the need for the marginal field operators to leverage on this provision to raise funds for their operations. He disclosed that the commission is taking necessary steps to encourage funding and reduce cost per barrel by initiating measures to improve due diligence protocols to enable investors and operators access information prior to taking investment decision,encourage synergies in the use of shared facilities as well as facilitate crude handling/ transportation agreements to ensure favorable terms for all parties. POLL He added that such measures would ensure field development will be carried out in line with approved work programme commitments and develop regulations to enable ease of implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act. He also said concerted effort is being made by the NUPRC in collaboration with stakeholders to tackle the decurity issues in oil and gas assets in the country. He spoke on the ongoings in the 2020 Marginal fields award,saying the commission has engaged awardees to resolve issues arising therefrom. The commission, he said,has concluded drafting of Model License document,delineated the 57 marginal field areas,adding that the next step is to engage the stakeholders for inputs and seek alignment before the end of this month. The timeline to issue PPL is by June ending for petroleum operations to commence,he said.