The Goodluck Jonathan Foundation (GJF) has urged governments and citizens to make commitments to defend journalism and journalists against attacks and tyranny. The GJF made the call in a statement issued on Tuesday by its Communications Officer, Wealth Dickson Ominabo, to commemorate the 2022 World Press Freedom Day themed, ‘Journalism Under Digital Siege’. Ominabo noted that the theme highlighted the challenges of contemporary media practice in an era of digital technology. -Advertisement- The foundation pointed out that despite the obvious benefits associated with digital technology in society, particularly in democratising access to information, it had exposed citizens to new forms of tyranny, violence and censorship by state and non-state actors. It felicitated journalists on the occasion of this year’s World Press Freedom Day and urged all stakeholders to defend journalism and journalists from all forms of repression and oppression. The GJF also charged media professionals to uphold media ethics in the discharge of their duties and ensure that information was used for the public good at all times. The statement read in part, “On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day 2022, the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation (GJF) celebrates Nigerian journalists and other media stakeholders across Africa, who bear the burden of information dissemination and continue to use information as a means to promote good governance and accountability in our nations. “Digital technology, despite its benefit of democratising access to information, has also exposed citizens to undue violence and unwarranted censorship by state and non-state actors. POLL “As we celebrate, we call on governments and citizens to defend journalism against attacks as well as commit to protecting journalism and journalists from all threats in our societies. “We also urge media professionals to live up to their responsibilities, uphold media ethics and ensure that information is used for the public good at all times.”