Ossy is a kind of man ordinarily one may think is a sissy. His attitude and calm behaviour portrayed just that. But beyond his outward appearances, he is a strong man who is in dire need of a woman to call his own and to love him. When he finally sees one and approaches her, he is rest assured that she loves him just the way he loves her, but little does he know that his pretty girlfriend has no iota of love for him. In fact, he is just like a brother to her and nothing more. He thinks she stops loving him because he refuses her the money she requests. “I don’t always have the confidence to talk to ladies, especially the ones I am attracted to. I always think the person will not accept me: I will not be good enough for her, not able to meet her standards. To many people around me, I am this cool, gentle guy who doesn’t chase after ladies but I know I am not that cool, just that I have not achieved certain goals I set out for myself. And I don’t have money to spend on ladies. It took me months to gather courage to ask my supposed girlfriend out. The day I asked her out, I was sitting in my office rehearsing how I would tell her how I felt about her. After putting my words together and they were perfect, I moved to the shop where she helped her aunty to sell children’s wears. “After pouring out my heart to her she accepted to be my friend. She gave me her number and we started talking on phone and via chats. She only preferred we talk on phone, she never honored any of my invitation to come to my place or to hang out with me. She always gave excuses – it was either she was busy or she didn’t have transport money. She told me her aunty’s husband was a pastor and they didn’t allow her to go out and they must not know she had a boyfriend. For almost two years, we have not gone out together much less having any romantic moments. We are always quarreling over unnecessary issues because she always claimed to be right. -Advertisement- “One morning I called her as usual. After exchanging pleasantries, she told me she needed N 20,000 urgently. I told her I didn’t have that kind of money. Besides, she didn’t give me prior notice. She got angry and ended the call. She had done this like three times. She stopped talking to me for a while, which she always did when she was angry with me. Last week, I was surprised when she called me, unlike before, she didn’t wait for me to be the first to talk to her after our quarrel. Out of curiosity, I wanted to know if she truly loved me and wanted me. We got talking and I asked her what I meant to her. She said I was like a brother to her and she loved me just like a brother. So, for two years I had been wasting my time. And do I look like your brother? I asked her. She said she preferred things that way. I am wondering, could it be because I refused to give her the money she asked for and did I do wrong not giving her the money? Because before the money issue we were cool together and she responded well to my calls when we talked about the future. And we called ourselves sweet pet names.” Dear Ossy, relationship thrives better when there is trust, commitment and communication. If you are nonchalant towards any of these, it can put your relationship in danger spot. Asking you for money urgently and getting angry when you can’t give her immediately could mean she needed the money and expected you as her boyfriend to be of help but you disappointed her. Or she wanted to play a fast one on you and got angry when her plans didn’t work. Now, I don’t think she changed her mind about you because of the money issue. I think from the beginning she didn’t love you, and from what you said about her, there were enough signs to know she was not into you. She was probably in love with another person. That is why in a relationship you don’t just assume things, you ask relevant questions like you did. Now you know your stand in her life, I think it is time to pitch your tent with another lady. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.