Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State and a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged the leaders of the party to choose one person from the pool of qualified Presidential aspirants from the South-East region to fly the party’s presidential ticket in 2023. Governor Umahi said that presidential aspirants from the Southeast region must not have a consensus arrangement before one of them could be chosen by the APC leaders to fly the party’s presidential flag, come 2023. The Governor spoke in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State on Friday, in a chat with members of Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE) who visited the state on a two-day working visit. -Advertisement- He said, “there is no need for a consensus. When they say that Igbo should come together, I continue to say, there is nothing like that. “The Igbo are not making President for the Igbo alone and many of us are there we are not the ones to choose who should be the President of Nigeria, it is Nigerians that should choose who should be their President. So, we have quite a good pool of aspirants from the Southeast and they should choose among these aspirants. “If they are looking for somebody who can develop infrastructure, somebody who is committed, has the fear of God and has very wonderful ratings in terms of transparency in governance, then they will see somebody from Ebonyi and they are other aspirants that have other qualities including some of my own qualities, Nigerians are there to make choice. “What kind of President do we want at this challenging moment? That’s should be the question that should be on the lips of Nigerians.” Umahi, however, lamented that aspirants from South-South and South-West were higher in number than that of the South East and should not have been so if the much talk about equity, justice and fairness must be the bases for selecting the next President of the country. POLL “So, if the mind of the South is that when this thing comes that we should continue to vote for our brothers and no opportunity to be voted for, I said, no. Then, we have blackmailed the North, which means that it was no longer on the platform of equity and justice. So, it’s a blackmail and if that is a blackmail, the Southeast should pull out of the blackmail and then say, look, if you are not basing this thing on equity and justice, then everybody can contest. “And so, the South will no longer cry of marginalization because marginalization cannot just stop between the North and South. When it comes to the South, it has to be also trickled down to the three regions with different cultural backgrounds, that’s the position and I think this opinion should be enhanced because justice is justice, fairness is fairness, equity is equity and I have seen that the body language of Mr President is that this thing should come to South but if it is thrown to the South, and justice fairness and equity are being denied, then, if I am the one giving it, I have to reconsider my position and that is the truth. “So, our brothers and sisters in South-South and South-West should please think about tomorrow, think about if destiny is denied the South East, will there be any kind of unity again as a people with a common voice for the so called justice, equity and fairness”, Umahi.