Adeyinka Igbinoba’s story sparked a lot of interest as it borders on issues of fraud, oppression and assault. In an interview with Saturday INDEPENDENT, the young entrepreneur, wife and mother tells her story, while asking the Nigerian Police Force, Ministry of Justice and the Nigerian populace to save her from the alleged menace of Sade Gbadamosi and Saheed Mosadoluwa, popular as Ibile. TOMI FALADE brings excerpts. Please tell us about the events that led up to your injury. Around July 2021, two of my siblings bought a property from Saheed Mosadoluwa, aka Ibile around Ibeju Lekki for N30million. After a while, when the result of the research came out of Land Bureau at Alausa, my siblings discovered that the C of O presented had been revoked. My siblings then informed him, and he stated that he was aware and that he would refund the N30million. However, all efforts to get him to refund the money proved abortive and they were forced to go to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). EFCC invited the two parties, but they also couldn’t get the money from him. -Advertisement- My siblings are young entrepreneurs, and N30million in any currency is not a small amount. Frustrated, they involved my aged parents. My mother and father then started calling Mosadoluwa to implore him. During one of the calls, he told my mother to arrange a meeting in his office at Landbook Properties, Eleganza Complex, opposite VGC, Ajah. My mum kept insisting that all she wanted was an amicable settlement. When did the meeting take place? It was Saturday, November 20, 2021, and my mum had informed me that she was going there with my siblings around 3 or 4pm and that she would let me know the outcome. It was at that point she gave me the full details of what had been going on. I was at the salon that day, so I told her that once I was done, I would come meet her there. True to my words, I went there with my driver. My mum was there with two of my siblings and one of my siblings’ husbands, my brother-in-law. When I got into the office where the meeting was being held, asides my four family members, the agent that linked them with Ibile to sell the land originally, Kola Opeodu was also there. When Ibile arrived, he came in a white range rover and another SUV filled with guys who looked like thugs. Were you in any way afraid? I just concluded that maybe that was how he moves around. I wasn’t comfortable in that environment and I started an audio recording. I also informed my driver that he should make sure my car was turned and ready to leave because I did not know what the outcome of the meeting would be like. POLL Tell us about the meeting. I went in, my mother started pleading and begging that Ibile should look at my siblings as children who are only trying to make ends meet. Ibile then took over and told my mum that he was busy where he was, that he is not a proud man, especially since he came and prostrated in greeting for my mum. He said that my sisters took the matter to EFCC, and that EFCC is not a money-recovery agency, and that as a matter of fact, even the EFCC chairman cannot collect the money from him. He added that he is a big man, he has an airline, he has N9billion in his account, and he is just not a proud man. He then insisted that we must first go and withdraw the case from EFCC. What then happened? My brother-in-law told him that withdrawing the case is not a problem, but that he should give us a bank draft that we can hold on to. He blatantly refused. All of this was being recorded on my phone. It was at that point I spoke up and asked that I have heard about him from way back since I operate in the real estate space and that it was funny we were meeting like this for the first time. I then countered him that I believe he is indeed a proud person based on his statement that ‘even the EFCC chairman cannot retrieve the money from him’. This was all I had said before he got angry. He said it wasn’t only the EFCC chairman, that even me cannot get the money from him. He then began to threaten and chase us out of his office. I then asked what would happen if we don’t leave his office, and he stepped out and brought back a guy he called Shadow and another one who followed. At that point, one of my sisters was advising that we step out of the office to the corridor that if anything happens in here, no one would see us. But because I was recording, I wanted him to at least say when he would give us the money so I could capture it. By that time Shadow and his colleague pounced on my brother-in-law, who was the only male with us and started beating him. I was making my way out to the corridor through his receptionist’s desk. I then tried to start video recording the assault on my brother-in-law with my phone. Immediately he saw me doing that, Mosadoluwa came after me and tried to forcefully take my phone away, but I didn’t let go of it. While we wrestled, I kept screaming that ‘do he want to kill me?’ By this time I was on the corridor, so he went back to his receptionist’s office. There was a heavy wooden carving on the receptionist’s table and he grabbed it and came after me again. I saw him raise it up to hit my head and I was able to dodge the blow. But in doing that, I lost balance. As I struggled to regain my balance, he kicked me and I fell. While I was flat on the floor, he struck my leg with the carving. I didn’t realise the extent even though I knew he hit me. Everything I was after was to stand up and get away from him. As I struggled to get up, I saw my feet dangling and it could no longer hold my weight. My driver, Kabiru had heard the commotion and also heard when Mosadoluwa had come to call Shadow. He said he heard him say “Go, kill them and their mother!” He was alert and when he saw me hopping, he ran upstairs and ran past some of Mosadoluwa’s guys to me. It was my driver who carried me to my car and I told him to quickly open the car so I could enter. Before getting to the car, one of my sisters who ran outside during the commotion and my brother-in-law who had also come out of the office asked me what happened to my leg, and I told them that Mosadoluwa had broken my leg. My brother-in-law had seen him with the carving and said “Oh, he broke your leg with that thing?” Where was your mum in all these? She was still in Mosadoluwa’s office. She was still trying to see how to sort things out. My driver had taken me to the hospital immediately we got to the car and my mum did not know what was going on. Mosadoluwa, probably realising what he had done went back into his office to meet my mother and asked for her account number. He transferred N15million to her immediately. It was later when my sister told her I had been taken to the hospital that she rushed to see me. When she saw the extent, she called Mosadoluwa to inform him that he had broken my leg. He denied it and said it was when I was running that I fell at the balcony. He also claimed that his office had CCTV camera up to the gate. That truly he held something and truly, I fell, but he did not hit me with what he was holding. He also said that if I go to the media, whatever I find, I should take it. He also stated that he lives at Amen Estate and no one can defame him and go scot-free. Which hospital were you taken to? Doren Specialist Hospital, Ajah. After scans and tests, I was told I had multiple fractures and I had to undergo surgery. Did you go through surgery? Yes. The surgery was done on Monday, November 22, 2021. As we speak, there are 12 pieces of iron in my leg that would be there for life. When Mosadoluwa was confronted with video and picture evidence of the surgery, he said it is photoshop and it was not me who was operated on. Though the police have verified my claim and visited the hospital, met the surgeons and confirmed that it was indeed me. What was your next move? My husband, who had been away on a business trip had returned on Saturday evening, and on Sunday, November 21, 2021, he went to report the matter at Ajiwe Police Station being the station in the vicinity where the incident happened. They invited Kola, the agent and Mosadoluwa, who said he was not around but he would come on Tuesday. By Tuesday, the police said the case was transferred to Alagbon. All this while, you were in the hospital? Yes. I was also a bit calm because of the fact that he mentioned Amen Estate. The owners of Amen Estate are very close to me Mr. and Mrs Babatunde Gbadamosi. I have worked with them, I was their executive director, sales for so long and we were also business partners. We are also so close as a family. When I go to Sade Gbadamosi’s house I go to meet her in her bedroom. She eats in my house. When Mosadoluwa mentioned Amen Estate, I chatted Aunty Sade Gbadamosi immediately and asked if she indeed knew him. She told me to check the man’s profile picture on the messaging app that it is her picture that is there. And indeed it was true. I then told her what he had done and explained all that had happened. She replied that she is sad at it and that her two best friends are involved. I was shocked to hear that based on some things I had found out about him online. How is it that an alleged criminal who was once paraded by the Nigerian Police Force as an alleged notorious criminal be her best friend?” I sent her a Punch news article to that effect. What I noticed as I was chatting with Aunty Sade was that Mosadoluwa was also sending messages to my mum as if he was privy to my conversation with Aunty Sade. I asked her if she was sharing my messages with her to Mosadoluwa and she confirmed it. I told her that was wrong especially since it was someone that had made an attempt against my life. The following day she came to visit me at the hospital and told me to drop all charges against her friend if I want to collect the balance of N15m. I was disappointed and took this as an outright blackmail. She kept telling me that Mosadoluwa is a nice man and that he even has a law firm. All that made me realise where she stood on the matter. My driver later told me that when she came upstairs to see me in the hospital, Ibile was in her car downstairs. We had to get private security to guard my hospital room. Was it at this point Sade Gbadamosi became involved in the case? Yes. After the case was transferred to Alagbon Police Station in care of one SP Beatrice Agbator (the IPO at Alagbon), my husband went straight to see the Assistant Inspector General of Police AIG Usman Beliel, and the case was introduced to the AIG as a ‘Redbrick Case’ thereby putting Sade Gbadamosi directly into the matter. Redbrick are the developers of Amen Estate. So Redbrick is Sade Gbadamosi. It was at that point that we realised that she intended to use her affluence and financial might to kill the case. It was one of the worst days of my life because I felt betrayed. When my husband called me on video to tell me of Redbrick’s new involvement, I passed out in the hospital and the nurses had to revive me. It was mere coincidence that Mosadoluwa mentioned Amen Estate, and now her intention was to bury the case. I was in the hospital for a long time being bathed and fed in one spot. Was the issue resolved by the police? Yes. In my broken state, I started going to the police station. After three months passed and nothing concrete happened, I wrote a petition to the Honourable Attorney General of Lagos, and Inspector General of Police respectively. Within a week, the Ministry of Justice, Lagos acted on my petition and detailed State CID Panti, Yaba, who swung into action. However, attempts to get Ibile were obstructed. On one of such attempts at his residence at Amen Estate, Sade Gbadamosi met the police and said she owns the estate, and that they should leave, that she will bring him to Panti herself the following day, which she never did. Hereafter, my petition got to the Inspector General of Police, and he acted swiftly on my petition and directed the IG Monitoring Unit to take action immediately. SP Akin and ASP Lasisi from the IG Monitoring unit, Abuja came to Lagos and succeeded in arresting Saheed Mosadoluwa AKA Ibile and Sade Gbadamosi (developer of Amen Estate) right inside the Force CID Alagbon premises having coincidentally been called to a meeting. Mosadoluwa and Sade Gbadamosi were detained and later bailed. Has the N15million balance been paid as at today, and what is the situation of things now? Yes. It has been paid. To my greatest surprise though, after Sade Gbadamosi was bailed, she has denied me access to my building and property at Amen Estate Phase 2, with a standing instruction at the estate gates that myself and my family as well as our workers should not be allowed to go into the estate to our building and that they should use all means possible to restrain us. This came as a huge surprise and makes me wonder if this is the fate of my several clients who own properties in the estate. Is it that if they ever have personal issues with Sade Gbadamosi, she will lock them out of their houses? A few years back, she and her husband demolished a part of my building in Amen Estate Phase 2, saying they did not realise it won’t allign with their unique air space setback rules on the first floor. This was after I had submitted my building plans, which they approved. They watched us build to roof level before they demolished a section of my building. Any attempt to revisit the police? When we were invited to Force headquarters, Abuja where all parties were present, in the presence of police, Sade Gbadamosi insisted that I will not have access to my house at Amen Estate Phase 2, and that she needs a video of where Ibile broke my leg before anything. Till date, she has continued her threats and oppression. Have you ever felt physically threatened by Sade Gbadamosi after the initial meeting with Mosadoluwa? She invited me to a realtors hang-out at Amen Estate Phase 3 site, which is currently in the middle of nowhere, kilometers into the bush. I couldn’t attend because I am still using crutches. I later saw a video online of the event and Mosadoluwa and some of those I believe are his thugs were present. She invited me for this event knowing fully well that Mosadoluwa already made an attempt on my life once and caused me grievous body harm. What exactly do you want now? I sincerely want to appreciate the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman and the Attorney General of Lagos, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) who used their good offices to help shine light into this matter so far. I believe we are a nation bound by laws and no one is above the law. This is a criminal matter with glaring evidence of the act of crime and I want the matter charged to a court of competent jurisdiction for justice to be served. This matter has been with Nigerian Police Force at different levels for close to six months now. Sade Gbadamosi and Saheed Mosadoluwa AKA Ibile are not above the law. They keep threatening me, and I want to say it clearly here that if anything happens to me, any member of my family or my staff, Sade Gbadamosi and Saheed Mosadoluwa AKA Ibile should be held responsible because strange and unknown people now appear in my place of residence and my offices. It’s affecting my mental health, my self-esteem, my business, my life and everything around me.