BENIN – Owan and Akoko-Edo Alliance, a Socio-Political Group, has pledged to mobilise N120 million to support the Presidential aspiration of the immediate past Governor of Edo, Mr Adams Oshiomhole. This disclosure was contained in a press statement by the Chairman and Secretary of the group, Sunny Ifijen and Omeiza Ogumah respectively, and made available to newsmen in Benin on Friday The group noted that they voluntarily decided to support the former governor because of his capacity and the fact that he will make a difference in the polity and governance of the country. -Advertisement- The group alluded to the fact that they never supported Oshiomhole’s senatorial ambition in Edo because they wanted him to contest for a higher office such as the Presidency. “We have always known the capacity and ability of our Comrade and hence, our decision to support his ambition in higher Officer and not the senatorial ambition. “Oshiomhole’s pedigree as a former labour leader, governor and a former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has adequately prepared him for the task of restructuring the change. “Indeed, the country is in dire need for a change; insecurity, social- political setting, economy and the general wellbeing of the people. “Of course, we have other capable people aspiring for the same position but Oshiomhole’s antecedents stand him out. POLL “If his performance as governor of Edo doesn’t say anything about him then I wonder who else is better positioned to occupy the number one political sit in the country. “Oshiomhole proved in all the offices he has held, that our challenges are surmountable only if we have leaders that are committed, dedicated and a good manager of human and material resources. “These were the things that guided his (Oshiomhole) achievent in office as governor of Edo and also other endeavours where he excelled. “Oshiomhole’s popularity has not wane since leaving office unceremoniously as national chairman of the APC. He is also a detribalized Nigerian whose friendship cut across every part of the country,” the statement added.