There is no any sporting issue that should be given prime attention today safe the final of this year’s UEFA Champi­ons League in Paris today between Real Madrid and Liverpool. It’s not that others sporting issues are of lesser importance, it is just that relegating this final to the back­ground looks somehow. To start with I am not a football fan as such. My love for football is occasioned by the position I hold in my office. As the head of sports section, a newspaper for that matter, not giving football the prime attention might drive traffic away from your paper, meaning your action might not let many readers patronize your newspaper. No editor worth his calling will do that. If not for the UEFA champions League, Kylian Mbappe’s rejection of Real Madrid for PSG is an issue worth of giving real attention. What of the sale of Chelsea football club to Todd Boehly’s Consortium that signed agreement to buy the club, after months of uncertainty? -Advertisement- Today the eighth edition of the Okpekpe 10km International Road Race holds today in Okpekpe in Edo state after two years of break occasioned by the COVID-19. What of Tiger Woods unsuccessful bid at another major last weekend? All these and many more deserve prime of place in today’s column, but alas this would not be. Okay one thing we need to know today is that the final is between the most successful club in the champi­onship, having won it 13 times, Real Madrid and six times winners, Liv­erpool. This final will arguably serve a purpose; it will be redemption to whoever club emerges victorious to­day. Will it be the Los Blancos or the Reds; my guess is as good as yours. There is no ardent football fan that does not know that Real Madrid’s image was left in tatters during the week, following Mbappe’s last sec­onds’ U-turn, renewing his contract with Paris Saint Germain. Mbappe, one of the coveted players in world football, had verbally agreed in Jan­uary to join the Los Blancos, even last week he spoke with the club’s hierach, but hey, he made a U-turn at the weekend to remain in Paris. This decision whether one likes it or not has shattered Madrid’s plan for next season. On the other hand, while Madrid are ruing this miss, Liverpool will go into the final with dashed qua­druple hopes. The Reds had won the Carabao and FA Cups earlier in the season and were on the verge of a third title last Sunday-the Premier League-but were denied by Manches­ter City’s spirited fight back in the last 15 minutes of their game against Aston Villa at the Etihad. Going into the last games of the season played simultaneously, for Liverpool to win the league, they must win their last game, while Man­chester City must either lose or draw at home to Aston Villa. And this sce­nario was almost playing out at 75th minute with Villa leading City 2-0 before a spirited fight back that led to City’s three goals in five minutes (76th, 78th & 81st) winning 3-2 and put paid to all hopes of Liverpool’s quadruple. POLL Now these two clubs will face off again after Los Blancos denied The Reds the title in 2018 under contro­versial circumstances, is another issue that will affect today’s game. Though, Juggen Klopp said during the week that vengeance was not on his cards. The rivalry between Liverpool and Real Madrid is long and storied, and it will get a new chapter when they square off today. Which of the clubs will redeem their season with win to­day? Will it be Madrid winning their 14th title or Liverpool their seventh? When these clubs last met in the 2018 Champions League Final, Ma­drid won 3-1. Now, these sides are meeting once again after wins in the semifinal round, with Liverpool defeating Villareal 5-2 and Madrid rallying to defeat Manchester City 3-1, after loosing the first leg 3-4. It did not look like Madrid will make it to the final if their first performances from the knockout stage were anything to go bye. All through the knockout stage, Madrid were the most exciting team with their come­backs victories. Against PSG, they lost the first leg 1-0 and conceded first in the second leg before rallying back to win the tie 3-2. Against Chelsea was most awk­ward. Madrid won the first leg 3-1 at Stamford Bridge. When Chelsea had been written off, they took a 3-0 lead and were on the verge of reaching the semis before a spirited fight back saw them scoring two goals winning the tie 5-4. Against Manchester City in the semis, they lost the first leg at Etihad 3-4 and conceded another goal with 16 minutes left. But again they pulled off another comeback scoring three goals and took the tie 6-5. But this is Real Madrid’s com­petition, they live for this stuff, and there’s a reason why if they win the title, they’ll have double the amount of titles as the team with the next most, AC Milan with seven. Special performances from Karim Benzema and Vinicius Ju­nior led the way for Los Blancos to get to this point, but it has been a true team effort. And now Liverpool is up next for a 2018 rematch. While the Pre­mier League side might be favored this time around, Madrid had that special sauce so far this season. The Reds could suffer the same fate as Chelsea and Manchester City be­fore them. Well, I’m not predicting the outcome of the game. If you want to know my prediction, ask me after the game must have been played. My prediction will not only be accurate but perfect.