P/HARCOURT -The Rivers State Government has approved the immediate release of monthly pensions for additional 1,191 retirees from the Rivers State Civil Service. The State Governor, Nyesom Wike disclosed this during the just concluded 2022 Workers Day at Isaac Boro Park, Port Harcourt, the state capital. Represented by his Deputy, Dr. (Mrs) Ipalibo Harry Banigo, Governor Wike said the payment took immediate effect from the Month of April 2022, stressing that the payments were received between Thursday and Friday last week. -Advertisement- Governor Wike, who reaffirmed his Administration’s commitment to the welfare of workers, said under his watch, salaries are paid to all workers in the public sector promptly and provides monthly overhead costs to enable them perform their functions and run their offices effectively. “Rivers State Government pays salaries to all workers in the public sector promptly and provides monthly overheads to enable them perform their functions and run their offices effectively. …”Government has paid all outstanding monthly pensions up till date for all who have completed their biometrics. “The Governor of Rivers State, His Excellency Governor Wike approved the release of monthly pensions for additives 1,191 retirees from the Rivers State civil service, which payment took immediate effect from the month of April 2022 and was effected precisely on Thursday/Friday last week. Now, Rivers state is committed to the welfare of our workers.” He said Government also provides impress to all Schools under SUBEB and the Secondary Schools Board, which has eliminated illegal levies to our students. Governor Wike expressed regrets, that the State NLC Chair Person, Comrade Beatrice Itubo who had in the past, applauded him as a most worker friendly Governor, was the first to criticize his presidential ambition. POLL The Governor described the theme for this year’s May Day Celebration,” Labour, Politics, the Quest for Good Governance and National Development”, as apt, in view of the current socio-economic and security challenges foisted on the people of Nigeria by the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government. While noting that the Rivers State Government has been able to surmount most security challenges to give workers in the State a safe environment to work in, Governor Wike wished all workers in the State and their counterparts world wide a Happy May Day Celebration.