LAGOS – Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested two pregnant women among drug traffickers at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Ikeja, Lagos for allegedly attempting to import and export illicit drugs through the airport in the last week. The agency said the first to enter the its dragnet was a Brazilian returnee, Nworie Phillip Chikwendu, who was arrested on Tuesday May 3, 2022, during an inward clearance of passengers on Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil en route Doha to Lagos. It said during a thorough search of his luggage, two parcels of cocaine were discovered concealed in a pair of brown slippers hidden in his ox blood backpack. A further search of the pair of black slippers worn by the suspect also led to the recovery of additional two parcels of cocaine built into the soles of his foot wears, bringing the total to four parcels weighing 800 grammes. -Advertisement- When undergoing preliminary interview, Nworie who claimed to be a barber in Sao Paulo, said he came to Nigeria for the burial of his father. He confessed he decided to get into the criminal act because his trip was sponsored by his Brazil-based friend who gave him the drug to deliver in Lagos for a fee of N2, 000,000. A statement signed by Femi Babafemi said, “The following day, Wednesday, May 4, 2022, NDLEA operatives at the SAHCO export shed of the airport intercepted some cartons of alcoholic drinks suspected to contain illicit drugs. A freight agent who brought the consignment for export to Dubai, UAE, Shola Ogunrinde, was immediately arrested while a follow-up operation led to the arrest of a pregnant woman, Mrs. Seun Babatunde, who operates an alcohol joint in Pleasure area of Iyana Ipaja. “When the cartons were opened in the presence of the agent and the pregnant owner, seven parcels of cannabis and a sachet of ecstasy drug (MDMA) were found concealed inside cans of black bullet alcoholic drinks. In her confession, Mrs. Babatunde claimed the drugs were being sent to her husband who lives in Dubai. The second pregnant woman, Mrs. Gloria Asibor, was arrested on Thursday, May 5 while attempting to board a Turkish Airline flight to Bolonia, Spain, via Istanbul, Turkey. A search of her luggage containing food items led to the discovery of 300 tablets of 200mg and 225mg high dosage Tramadol concealed in crayfish. POLL “Meanwhile, large consignments of psychoactive substances have been intercepted in parts of Northwest, Northeast and North central. In Kaduna, a drug dealer, Obinna Anene a.k.a Young Alhaji, was arrested on Friday, May 6 at Buwaya Kaduna with 50,000 tablets of Diazepam weighing 9kg; 595 tablets of Tramadol weighing 318 grammes and 8 tablets of co-codamol weighing 6 grammes.”