Residents of Lekka Village in the Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of Bauchi State have breathed a sigh of relief as a Non-governmental Organization (NGO) known as Kairos Initiative have commenced renovation of the dilapidation maternity centre in the area. Lekka maternity centre which was built about 17 years ago during the Adamu Mu’azu administration, has been in a deplorable condition for about five years now. The officer in charge of the health centre, Bala Audu, who spoke on the development, stated that in the past five years, windstorms blew off the roof of the hospital at different times, adding that the community and staff of the facility usually contribute to fixing it. -Advertisement- “We’ve been managing the hospital like that until Kairos Initiative came in and started the renovation. One of the problems we have been experiencing is the fact that people of the community stopped coming here because of the level of dilapidation. “Sick people were not being brought again, but this changed since this NGO came in and started this work, people have started coming again. “Because women stopped coming to the maternity, when a woman is in labour in the area, they usually take her to the house of the midwife so she can assist in the delivery but if there is no means of taking her there, the midwife would go to the house and take delivery of the baby. “Even immunization, people have stopped bringing children for routine immunization, we will have to follow them to their houses. We also lack staff in the hospital, we, the staff, are two with a few volunteers. POLL “Honestly, we have not been finding it easy here working in this condition, we have been managing because we do not have any other choice. “This is maternity and you know that the condition is not supposed to be like this and you have been going to other hospitals and maternities. We are working in the only condition we found ourselves in,” he said. He expressed gratitude to Kairos Initiative for the gesture to renovate the facility and improve its status. The only midwife in the hospital, Hauwa’u Hassan, also lamented that they have not been finding it easy while trying to take care of the suck and pregnant women as the condition of the hospital are very discouraging. “Since the past five years, anytime women come and see the condition of the hospital, they’ll leave to Luda. A lot of them stopped coming for deliveries because when they come, they stay in the open and when the rain comes, they are affected. Before the roof was blown off the last time, we usually have you to 10 deliveries weekly and this stopped, they even stopped coming for antenatal. “We are not always happy and comfortable staying here in the hospital especially when it rains, it’s either you run away from the maternity to areas where we can be safe otherwise, we get soaked with the rains,” she lamented. In an interview with our Correspondent, Dr Moji Iheme, who spoke on behalf of the NGO, said that Kairos Initiative, an United Kingdom funded organization, which was set up to help indigent people by touching their lives positively, found out about the facility and how pregnant women no longer patronized the only facility in the area. She said that they discovered that pregnant women from the village were often transported to the hospital in another village kilometres away in a wheelbarrow for delivery. “We heard about the state of the maternity, how bad it was and we went and saw it. They told us that women of the village don’t go there anymore, they take them to the next village called Luda in a wheelbarrow when they are in labour. “So, we thought of how to revive the place so that it will be closer to the women of the rural area. Our Chief Executive then sourced funds in the UK. This project is being done by Kairos Initiative powered by Kitchen-Table Charity Trust’ who heard of what we wanted to do and decided to help us in sourcing for some of the funds,” Iheme said.