LAGOS – The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo) has accused Dr. Iyorcha Ayu, the Chairman of the party of imposing unpopular, weakened and visionless candidates on the party in the ongoing primaries across the country. Dr. Emeka Kalu, National Coordinator, PDPCo in a statement alleged that most of the party’s candidates supported by Ayu for various elective offices were not fit for the positions they are vying for in the general elections. He feared that if the current situation was not nipped in the bud, PDP may once again lose the presidential elections and other positions the party is presenting candidates. -Advertisement- Kalu regretted that PDP was yet to learn any lesson from the past crises it created for itself, stressing that some prominent members are leaving the party in droves. He said: “A case study of what happened in Enugu, Abia and other states during the State House of Assembly, House of Representatives and gubernatorial primaries where some frontline aspirants who have been the major backbone of party from the inception distanced themselves from participating in the primaries due to perceived irregularities and deceit in the three-man ad-hoc delegates lists. “Two days ago, a prominent Presidential constant, Mr. Peter Obi resigned from the party, complaining of lack of unity of purpose and distorted planning as one of his reasons for a walk-out. With this level of instability, how would the party achieve excellence in 2023 general elections? “The same prime reasons that made so many stakeholders leave the party in 2014 that resulted in the party’s loss of presidential election in 2015. We must harken to defend the truth by working to stop what is billed to stop us.” He called on the party’s leadership to as a matter of urgency to re-plan and harmonise on the structures before the issued degenerated further. POLL He warned that PDP was sure to lose the presidential election in 2023 if the alleged impunity was not checkmated. Kalu called on the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP to work in harmony in order to ensure victory for the party at the polls.