PASCHAL NJOKU; TITILOPE JOSEPH ABUJA / LAGOS – The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed an appeal by the gover­norship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2015 general elec­tions, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, seeking to set aside a judg­ment of the court below on the N6billion defamation suit filed against him by a former governor of Rivers State, Dr. Peter Odili. Delivering judgment on the appeal, Justice Amina Augie in her lead judgment, which was read by Justice Adamu Jauro said the “appeal lacks merit” and thereby dismissed same. -Advertisement- The Supreme Court also or­dered parties in the appeal to bear cost. Odili had in October 2016, instituted a suit at the Feder­al High Court Port-Harcourt, wherein he claimed that Peter­side had defamed him through a newspaper publication in February 2016, and consequent­ly demanded N6bn damages as compensation. As at the time of the defama­tion allegation, Dakuku Peter­side was the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Ad­ministration and Safety Agency. Peterside was alleged to have said in a press confer­ence that Rivers State Gover­nor, Nyesom Wike, during a victory thanksgiving service, alleged that Odili helped him (Wike) to secure the judgement that gave him (Wike) victory. But Odili had described the statement credited to Pe­terside as false and malicious, insisting that Wike never said that he (Odili) helped him to secure election victory at the Supreme Court. POLL However, the matter which came up for judgment at the Apex court on Friday, the appeal was unanimously dismissed. Justice Olukayode Ariwoo­la, led a five-man panel of Jus­tices of the Supreme Court that took final arguments for and against the suit in February this year. Kanu Agabi SAN, lead counsel for Odili had urged the court to dismiss the appeal by Peterside and enter judgment in favour of his client, while Damian Okoro, counsel to Dakuku Peterside, prayed the apex court to allow the appeal and set aside the judgment of the Court of Appeal in the N6 billion defamation suit. Meanwhile, the legal team of former Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Peterside has debunked the news-making round that the Supreme Court of Nigeria has entered into a billion or any such judgment against him. A statement signed by Pe­terside’s legal team stated that the legal position of what trans­pired at the Supreme Court on Friday, May 27, 2022, was that the apex court only dismissed an appeal by Peterside challeng­ing the decision of the Court of Appeal to sustain an earlier dis­missal of his preliminary ob­jection to the service processes adopted by the litigant. It further explained that the origin of the matter was Suit. No. PHC/810/2016 between Hon. Dakuku Adol Peterside V. Dr. Peter Odili, brought against Peterside by a former Gover­nor of Rivers State, Dr. Peter Odili, before a Rivers State High Court, in Port Harcourt, presided over by Hon. Justice Iyaye Laminkara, who was then Chief Judge of the State. According to the legal team, Peterside who was not satisfied with the processes of service had filed an objection through a notice of preliminary objection challenging the service of the originating processes.