…Blames Wike’s Loss On Exceptional Treachery From Sokoto Firm collaboration between Atiku Abubakar and Governor Nyesom Wike is absolutely essential to win the 2023 presidential elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Frontliners support group has said. In a statement titled, ‘Atiku’s victory, Wike’s resilience and the Treachery from Sokoto,’ the party support group alleged that treacherous payback for Gov Wike’s past generosity towards a party chieftain from Sokoto State was the most significant factor in Wike’s loss to Atiku. -Advertisement- The PDP Frontliners’ reaction to Atiku’s victory at last Saturday’s presidential primaries was jointly signed by the PDP Frontliners’ President, Alhaji Hussein Aliyu Mohammed, its Secretary, Mr Moses Taye Abidemi and its Publicity Secretary, Mr Dan Bruce Okafor. In the statement, the group emphasized that Governor Wike has paid his dues and deserves much respect for keeping PDP alive as an opposition party, especially when others abdicated such responsibility. “We, members of the PDP Frontliners support group congratulate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for winning the race and we congratulate Governor Nyesom Wike for making such incredible waves and impressive impact in a first attempt for the presidency. “We note too, the exceptional treachery of Gov Wike’s former ally – the greatest and exceptional beneficiary of his resources and support in the 2019 presidential primaries who became the greatest facilitator of Wike’s loss in this year’s presidential primaries. “Obviously, Atiku, our party’s presidential candidate cultivated a nationwide network of friendships but now, he needs to unite every cleavage and every individual within the party in order to win the 2023 presidential race. POLL “As for Governor Wike, an embodiment of formidable courage, unwavering party loyalty and pragmatic resilience without whom PDP wouldn’t have recovered itself after many had taken opportunities to exit and even fought with the ruling APC to destroy PDP,” they stated. The group emphatically blamed an unnamed party leader from Sokoto for unparalleled treacherous ploys that ensured Gov Wike’s loss to Atiku on Saturday. “In the PDP’s presidential primaries of Saturday, May 28, 2022, Atiku won but Wike – the man who stood with PDP at all levels in those heady days when our dear Atiku opted for very prolonged stay in Dubai – did not lose to Atiku; he lost to the great treachery from Sokoto. “It is an irony that in the great history of the Sokoto Caliphate which has produced numerous great men and women, there is just one man who symbolizes the greatest iconic treachery in the history of Nigerian politics. “It is noteworthy that one man who had enjoyed the most exceptional loyalty and political support, including the sacrifice of time and huge resources from Governor Wike, now helped in no small measure to thwart Wike’s presidential ambition. “For the sake of present and future generations, we must interrogate issues, acknowledge the past and understand the present in order to find a realistic path to the future. “Again, it is an irony that the greatest beneficiary of Governor Wike’s selfless and self-effacing sacrifice in a previous presidential primary unfortunately transmuted into a perfidious icon of treachery, effectively sabotaging Gov Wike in last weekend’s primaries.” The group also commended Nigeria’s next President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and urged him to genuinely extend a hand of fellowship to Governor Wike whose bravery and consistency have only been rewarded with betrayals from several party leaders. The group further said that extremely few can dare match the steadfastness and resourcefulness that Gov Wike can bring to the table towards the success of PDP in the 2023 presidential elections.