MOHAMMED SHOSANYA The battle by electricity consumers to enable power distribution companies assume the responsibility of providing transformer to convey electricity to them is gathering steam, Daily Independent can report Consumers told Daily Independent the practice whereby electricity distribution companies shelve their statutory role of purchasing electrical materials to conduct their business negates the tenet of the privatization of the country’s power sector. -Advertisement- They also said the development represents additional burden on consumers who are not getting power supply that commensurate with the huge bills the power providers slam on them. According to the power performance agreement, the electricity distribution companies, ought to have metered their customers and reduced their Aggregate Technical Commercial and Collection (ATC&C) losses in the first five years when a review would be done on how well the investors managed the firms. Daily Independent, however, reports that electricity consumers buy transformers and other electrical materials in addition to the huge bills their service providers charged them. Some Community Development Associations told Daily Independent that they resort to buying the electrical materials by themselves having waited for too long for the service providers to come to their rescue but to avail. But the current battle to get the distribution companies to provide electrical materials for electricity conveyance was accentuated by the latest stand of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) POLL The said it is not the responsibility of the customer or the community to purchase, replace or repair electricity transformers and warned Distribution Companies (DisCos) against pushing responsibilities to customers which was against consumer electricity rights. The Commission also said that it was not the responsibility of consumers to purchase poles or other associated equipment used in the distribution of electricity in line with NERC’s Investment in Electricity Networks Regulation 2015. ”It is not the responsibility of the customer or the community to purchase, replace or repair transformers, poles or other associated equipment used in the distribution of electricity,” the Commission said. The Commission quoted the NERC’s regulation and it read: ”faulty transformer is supposed to be replaced by the Electricity Distribution Company within 48 hours of the official complaint being made. ”The DisCo is responsible for such replacement or repairs. However, if the DisCo is unable to speedily replace the faulty transformer, residents may go into discussion with the company and agree on the terms of replacement of the affected transformer if they so wish to assume the responsibility of the company. “Consumers that intend to go into such discussions with DisCos are strongly advised to read the Commission’s guidelines for such agreements. This is bearing in mind that any equipment purchased and integrated into the electricity system or grid automatically becomes the property of the electricity DisCo,” Abdul’azeez Abdullahi, head, corporate communications at Kaduna Electric, told Daily Independent that his power firm didn’t compel people to pay or contribute money to replace or fix their faulty transformers. He disclosed that his company preferred that customers offset their bills promptly so that such transformers serving them can be fixed when faulty. “We never asked people to contribute money to fix or buy transformer. They don’t want to pay bills rather, when their transformers get spoiled they will be running helter-skelter to fix it. Nobody says they should fix transformer; let them pay their debts”, he said The Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) had recently, said Electricity Distribution Companies (Discos) assume ownership of equipment donated by consumers in order to ensure public safety. ANED’s Executive Director for Research and Advocacy, Sunday Oduntan, was quoted in a statement to have said Discos normally assumed ownership of donated equipment because of “indemnity and protection“. He noted that the Discos usually took responsibility for any incident that happened with such donated equipment. According to him, it is important for Nigerians to understand that Discos have a responsibility to ensure that only good quality equipment duly certified by Nigerian Electricity Management and Safety Agency (NEMSA) are installed in their networks. “After installation, Discos have to take steps to protect such equipment so that it will be safe for use by customers. We have had occasions when some transformers that were installed in the days of Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) caused electrocution. “We need to protect the equipment and ensure that access is only granted to qualified personnel. People have lost their lives because they were trying to maintain their transformers. This is why we ask customers to write a letter of donation to the DisCos. If the items do not belong to the Discos, they cannot exercise any right over the use of the items, neither should they bear liability for any incident that occurs thereafter,” he said. Mr Oduntan said that it was the responsibility of Discos to provide electricity infrastructure, adding that they do a lot of this. He said that in situations where the demand exceeded supply due to a shortage of funds, customers do step in to help their communities. According to him, since privatisation in 2013, ANED members have invested considerably in improvements in their networks. “It is understandable when a community of customers decides to step in rather than take the option of waiting till resources needed to service their needs are provided by their respective Disco. The issue of community volunteering is very clearly stipulated by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC).” Sunday Eze, a consumer and communication specialist, said it was not true any agreement signed by “donors of the electrical materials and DisCos. He said: “ANED is disingenuously relying on an old rule applicable to the defunct National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) and Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) to run a private business. It is this obvious public ignorance of the power sector that permits service providers represented by ANED to market falsehood and ride roughshod on our collective backs. The same ignorance gives room to unchallenged poor service delivery, flagrant abuse or neglect of extant laws’ Joe Tsaver, expert in merger and acquisition, told Daily Independent that compensation should be considered for customers who expend their resources in procuring electrical materials for service providers He added: “You can help pressure the regulator to recognise this investment by the consumers and make the operators compensate them accordingly. We are all victims of this practice because we have no choice. You either wait for the operators to provide it for how long or you provide it.NERC should recognise this as investment by the consumers and be compensated from the energy bills. It is only the regulator that can do this” The president, Consumer Protection Network, Kunle Olubiyo, told Daily Independent that there was need for the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission to raise the Thresholds of CAPEX and make it flexible for electricity consumers to invest in the rlectricity market. He said: “There are lots of resources in forms of gold mine that the DisCoys are sitting on. Customers and non-state actors have lots of resources to inject if we have in place a clear cut mechanism for refund vide electricity token” -Professor Yemi Oke, a Professor of energy and electricity law, advocated the need for another round of “re-acquisition” and “refinancing” in the power sector to prevent collapse. “At privatisation, sadly, the truth is that, in actual sense, no foreign funds came into Nigeria in the real sense of it contrary to most hyped expectations of all of us. Shamelessly, we were deceived and the myopic banks kept giving “acquisition” financing/loans to buy the balkanised, old assets”