The People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPco), a socio-political group has thrown its weight behind the emergence of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the party’s candidate for the presidency in the 2023 general election. A statement by Dr Emeka Kalu, National Coordinator, PDP Coalition, stated that the group supported Atiku following the serialised character he had displayed over the years, adding that he also possessed the quality to lead the country out of its present predicament. The group, which initially supported the emergence of the President of Igbo extraction, said that it changed its position following the intrigues among politicians, especially from the South East. -Advertisement- The body regretted that rather than for politicians from the region to support candidates from the South East, most of them gave their support to politicians outside the region. The statement said: “Waziri Adamawa has been a deep-rooted visionary political leader who hardly throws in the towel despite the strains on his path. “He sails his political canoe despite how cloudy the atmosphere is. Atiku remains dogged even amid fluttering hurricanes tending to scatter his trunk-built ark. “These exceptional qualities are what define a diehard adventurer or purposeful leader who logs in towards achieving the fulfilment of destiny. “Therefore, PDP Coalition in her discretion and capacity is solidly behind Atiku Abubakar whom its trusts to be experienced, focused and building plans of how best to redeem Nigeria from economic shambles come 2023. POLL “The moribund Atikulated Agenda is hereby rebranded, re-energized and re-focused towards galvanising support and delegates in favour of a national leader whose commendable antecedents are worthy of emulation.” The group noted that before the conduct of the PDP National Convention held in October 2021 that produced the leadership of Dr Iyorcha Ayu, it had been canvassing for the President of Igbo extraction for the country because of its belief that the South East deserved to be the next President of Nigeria. According to Kalu, while some Igbo citizens were agitating against the zoning of the presidential slot to the South East, the same zone engaged in battles to ensure it didn’t produce the next president for selfish interests. It lamented that prominent party personalities who were hitherto expected to be drivers of the Igbo presidency after getting their expression of interest forms dropped their intention and rallied support for their Northern colleague in the National Assembly. “Having seen the bad eggs polluting the entire agitation, PDP Coalition decided to make a full and unpretentious reversal of thought and plans towards supporting the 2023 Presidential ambition of Atiku Abubakar,” it said.