Tottenham kept their Champions League hopes alive with a thumping 3-0 north London derby win over Arsenal. Victory for the Gunners would have sealed their place in the top-four of the Premier League, but Spurs enjoyed a night to remember. Harry Kane scored either side of Rob Holding’s second yellow card in the first-half as the hosts took complete control heading into the break. Heung-min Son added a third for his side shortly after the restart, and Spurs coasted through the rest of the match to move just a point behind the Gunners going into the final two matches of the season. -Advertisement- After a relatively even start to the match, Spurs were gifted the opportunity to take the lead with just over 20 minutes played. Dejan Kulusevski swung a cross in, where Heung-min Son was shoved in the back by Cedric Soares and the referee pointed to the spot. Kane was never likely to miss. Soon after the goal, Holding was shown his first yellow card after making a third foul on Son as he continued to get too tight to the Spurs man. Another yellow and a red followed seven minutes later as Holding raised his arm to block Son’s run and the centre-back could have no complaints as he was given his marching orders. Kane scored yet another goal against the Gunners before the break, getting on the end of Rodrigo Bentancur’s flick-on from a corner to convert from close range at the back post. Whatever Mikel Arteta told his side at half-time, it was unlikely to be focused on conceding another goal inside two minutes. That’s what happened though, as Kane fell to the ground inside the box, the ball fell loose and Son was there to curl it past Ramsdale under pressure. POLL The Arsenal goalkeeper did well to prevent further damage, keeping Emerson Royal’s header out before tipping Kane’s long-range effort over the bar. Son then blazed over when he had a huge chance to extend the lead further. It finished 3-0 to Tottenham, who could well be in fourth by the time Arsenal travel to face Newcastle on Monday night.