ENUGU – Enugu state police command has arrested a 35 year old woman for attempting to sell of a child at Old Park in Enugu. The police command also arrested 45 suspects in different related criminal offenses. Parading the suspects before Journalists in Enugu on Thursday, the Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, *CP Abubakar Lawal said the suspected trafficker confessed that the Chidi was stolen in Zamfara state and brought to Enugu to look for buyer. -Advertisement- He said “Police Operatives serving in Central Police Station (CPS) Enugu, arrested one Juliet Donatus (female) aged 35, residing in Zaria, Kaduna State. Her arrest was as a result of a tip off alleging that she was found attempting to sell a male child at Old Park Enugu. The said child, who is 8 years old, was rescued while the suspect confessed to have stolen the victim from Zamfara State and brought him to Enugu in search of a buyer. “The case was transferred to Gender/Anti-Human Trafficking Section of the State CID Enugu for preliminary investigation and has been further handed over to Kaduna State Police Command for conclusive investigation and prosecution,” he said. “In furtherance of the operational strategies devised by the Commissioner to contain criminals and their activities in the State, Police Operatives of the Command have between March and April 2022, successfully arrested a total of forty-five (45) male and one (1) female suspects involved the offences of conspiracy, murder, rape/defilement, kidnapping/abduction, armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearm, stealing, vandalism and cultism. “The operational activities led to the rescue of four (4) abducted/kidnapped victims, recovery of twenty-five (25) firearms of different makes, thirty-one (31) live ammunition of different calibres, fifty-three live cartridges, three (3) motor vehicles, six (6) tricycles, two (2) motorcycles and other incriminating exhibits. “Accordingly, investigation into most of the cases have been concluded and charged to court, while others are currently being investigated, with brief descriptions of the ongoing investigations relayed as follows: POLL Among the suspects arrested according to the Commisioner included one Onyemaechi Okorie aged 19, of Uburu in Ohaozara LGA of Ebonyi State who murdered his male co-worker in a construction site at Independence Layout Enugu. “Police Operatives of the Command serving in New Haven Police Division, swung into action and arrested him on the same date. Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect engaged the deceased in a serious fight and used a rod to hit him on the head. “The victim was immediately moved to the hospital for treatment, but was later confirmed dead by doctors on duty and the corpse deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy. Meanwhile, the case has been transferred to the State CID Enugu for conclusive investigation and prosecution, he said. The Commissioner while applauding the support received from security stakeholders, which made the achievement of these modest operational breakthroughs possible, commended and charged the Operatives to sustain the tempo in the Command’s quest to rid the State of unrepentant criminals and their activities. He thereby called on citizens of the State to remain law-abiding, vigilant and continue to support the Police by promptly reporting criminals and their activities to the nearest Police Station.