Trent Alexander-Arnold vowed Liverpool will return next season and lift more silverware as the club celebrated an FA Cup and Carabao Cup double. The Reds travelled through Liverpool on Sunday on an open-top bus parade, less than 24 hours after they fell to a painful 1-0 defeat against Real Madrid in the Champions League final in Paris. Jurgen Klopp’s side went into the final days of the season still chasing an unprecedented quadruple, though that dream ended as Manchester City pipped them to the Premier League by a single point in dramatic fashion. -Advertisement- While Liverpool missed out on the two biggest trophies, Alexander-Arnold insisted the team still have plenty to celebrate as he promised there was more to come in the future. “We are all so proud of ourselves,” Alexander-Arnold said. “Two trophies, missing out on the other two is disappointing, but we have to be happy and proud of ourselves. You can never get used to winning trophies. “We will 100% go again next season. Next season we will have our hands on some trophies, there is no doubt about that.” It was a difficult night at the Stade de France for Liverpool both on and off the pitch, as thousands of travelling supporters were unable to get into the stadium ahead of kick-off and were tear-gassed by police as they queued. POLL Liverpool released a statement in response to the “unacceptable issues” and Andy Robertson slammed UEFA as he revealed one of his friend’s was denied entry as stewards claimed he had a fake ticket. Despite those problems on Saturday night and a painful final week of the season for the team as they missed out both domestically and in Europe, the Liverpool players were full of praise for the supporters who turned out in huge numbers for the parade. “It was hard to gauge how this was going to go today, but the fans have been outstanding,” Alexander-Arnold said. “What a turnout. It’s been an incredible season, despite the disappointment at the end.” Ibrahima Konate added: “I don’t want to talk too much as I want to soak it all in. “It’s unbelievable. It’s crazy. I’ve never seen anything like this in my life.”