Some unknown gunmen in the early hours of Wednesday stormed Ekpomaka, the country home of the Executive Chairman of Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Elder Steve Orogwu, and killed his 75-year old elder brother, the elder brother’s two sons, and his security guard on duty. Daily Independent also gathered that the gunmen also burnt down the family house of Mr Orogwu. According to the report, the attack was targeted at Mr Orogwu, but was lucky, as he was not around when the attackers stormed his compound. -Advertisement- When contacted, Mr Orogwu confirmed the incident to our reporter on Wednesday morning. He said: “They attacked my family compound at Ikwo at night and killed my Elder Brother and two of his sons and a security guard”. He also said the gunmen set ablaze the family’s house in the compound. It was further learnt that the corpses of the victims have been taken to a mortuary in Abakaliki. The reason for the attack could not be ascertained as of the time of filing this report. POLL The Police spokesman in the state, DSP Loveth Odah said she was away on an official assignment when contacted for comments. Reacting, the Speaker of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Francis Ogbonna Nwifuru condemned the attack. Nwifuru, a governorship aspirant on the platform of the APC, assured that Ebonyi State Government would toughen the security measures and redouble its efforts to root out all bad eggs in the State. He said: “This morning, I received with rude shock, the despicable attack on the home of the Executive Chairman of Ikwo Local Government Area, Elder Stephen Orogwu, by unknown bad eggs, which resulted in the burning of his house and loss of lives. “I condemn this unfortunate mayhem in the strongest possible terms. I can affirm that these unscrupulous elements are not for Ebonyians and do not represent our ideals as a people. “As Government, we will toughen our security measures and redouble our efforts to root out all these bad eggs and fish out all of them, the culprits, to face the wrath of the Law. “I condole the Orogwu family and the entire people of Ikwo Local Government Area.”