Khamisu Ahmad Mailantarki, President Muhammadu Buhari’s returning officer during the 2019 elections in Gombe State has quit his membership in the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). Mailantarki was a founding member of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) in Gombe State who won the House of Representative seat for the Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye federal constituency in 2011 with a massive 122,987 votes, the highest winning votes then. He contested and won again in 2015 but was removed by the Supreme Court, which declared Yaya Bauchi Tongo as the authentic winner of the APC primary election of the Gombe/Kwami/Funakaye Federal Constituency. -Advertisement- He also participated in the 2019 APC Governorship Primary election along with Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya who won the election and later emerged victorious in the Governorship election. Mailantarki announced his resignation in a letter addressed to the APC Chairman of his Herwagana Ward of Gombe Local Government Area, a copy of which was made available to our correspondent. According to the letter, Mailantarki said, “With gratitude to the Almighty Allah, I hereby wish to notify you of my decision to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “I thank you and the entire membership of the party for your support while my membership lasted”, the letter reads. Confirming his resignation to our correspondent, Mailantarki said his decision was in the best interest of the state and his political future adding that, he would not, otherwise, have left the house he built with passion. POLL “As the only member elected under the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), I personally funded the entire process of a merger in Gombe state and I was the returning officer of President Buhari’s election in 2019 in the state. “Even after the Guber primaries in the state, we supported President Buhari and Gov Inuwa Yahaya and made sure APC won to an extent that we converted Gombe State from fully PDP to a fully APC state,” The former lawmaker added. Mailantarki was a one-time Board Member of the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC).