GOMBE – Ekiti State Governor and APC Presidential aspirant, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has pledged his commitment to the development of Nigeria and his All Progressive Congress (APC) party, even if he fails to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 presidential election. He spoke to Journalists shortly after addressing Gombe State delegates of the APC ahead of the party’s presidential primary election. He said, “There is nothing, including even if I’m not the choice of the party, that will make me subvert the overall interest of our party in presenting the country with a successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. So for me, that is not even in contestation. -Advertisement- “It’s a competition, it’s about competing visions, and I hope my vision will be the successful vision that our party members will rally round. “It’s not a do or die, it’s about progress and development for our people, it’s about the fundamental response to the challenges of ordinary Nigerians. “It’s about building on the gains that our President has managed to achieve in seven and a half years of being on the saddle and of course addressing the gaps that Nigerians will like us to also address”, he stated. Earlier, he said he was going round the country to talk to leadership and critical stakeholders in the All Progressive Congress. He said the party leadership in Gombe expressed their own concerns about what Gombe needed as a State in developing all frontiers in ensuring that the solid minerals in the State is exploited properly with the input of the State in the process and promoting the need for the industrial development zone to be fully developed with a special economic status. POLL He said he wasn’t surprised that the leadership of the APC in Gombe State focused on what Gombe can benefit from his Presidency if God approve of his journey. He said he had no reason to doubt that he would receive special flavours from the Gombe stakeholders adding, “I hope, having listened to me, having considered my experience, my capacity, my competence and my knowledge of the terrain and my vision, they will positively respond to my prayers.”