LAGOS  – Exhibitors, participants and vis­itors have lauded the organisers of the just concluded 2022 West Africa Automotive Show held at the Landmark Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. The automotive show was a platform for the stakeholders in the automotive sector to come together, network, forge new rela­tionships, discuss best practices and do business. The show, which was being organised by B2B Events Limited was the second edition with the participation of companies from the United Kingdom, India, Ger­many, Indonesia, United States, Poland, South Africa, UAE, the host Nigeria and others. -Advertisement- All the Chief Executives Of­ficers and representatives of the participating companies in the exhibition showed enthusiasm for coming to Nigeria. While some of them are in the country for the first time, some have been on the ground for the last few years. Some of the exhibitors who spoke with journalists said that people outside Nigeria are so fascinated with both the human and natural resources that God bestowed on the largest econo­my in the black nations. These exhibitors unanimously agreed that doing business and having a business presence in Nigeria would further expand the portfo­lio of their businesses. Tracy Hunter, Sale Director of GT Exhaust, manufacturers of original equipment and replace­ment silencers based in the Unit­ed Kingdom, which has been in the business for the past 50 years said that the Nigerian economy attracted the company for coming to the exhibition for the first time this year, adding that GT Exhaust will be willing to do business with Nigerians who can be distributors and sales representatives for the company. She disclosed that the high numbers of people using ve­hicles in Nigeria make the coun­try a huge market for GT Exhaust. Ranjeet Kumar Mahato, Re­gional Manager – International of Hunter Engineering Compa­ny, a 75-year-old USA-based glob­al leader in automotive service equipment, said that the Nigerian economy is attractive to outsiders because of the population and the potential therein.