Former acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu will on Thursday, May 5, retire from the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) as his ambition of becoming an Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) appears beyond reach. Magu, who was born on May 5, 1962, will clock 60 this year, making him eligible for retirement from the NPF in accordance with Section 18(8) of the new Police Act. It could be recalled that the Police Service Commission Standing Committee had recommended him for promotion, but some officials in Attorney-General’s Force Office had said he could not be elevated until he was cleared. -Advertisement- Magu, who had been on suspension since July 2020 over allegations of corruption and insubordination was enlisted into the Force on March 3, 1990, and deployed to the EFCC on May 25, 2012. Reliable sources within the NPF informed The Cable that Magu has commenced his one-month terminal leave ahead of his eventual retirement. The development means that Magu will not be getting the promotion he so desires. On July 7, 2020, when he was still at the helm of affairs in the EFCC, Magu was arrested, detained, and suspended as the acting chairman of the anti-graft agency after he appeared before a panel probing allegations of gross misconduct against him. The panel led by Justice Ayo Salami subsequently recommended Magu’s removal as EFCC boss “for failing to properly account for N431,000,000.00 security votes/information fund released to the office of the Executive Chairman of EFCC between November 2015 and May 2020”. He was also accused of causing the “disappearance of evidence, stoppage and suppression of cases under investigation and prosecution, and omitting to arrest suspects” in cases involving a former deputy senate president and a former managing director of Pipelines and Product Marketing Company (PPMC). POLL Magu was further accused of suppressing high profile cases involving four former governors, one of whom is currently a senator. However, since the panel submitted the report in November 2020, only a few recommendations have been implemented. Magu has repeatedly denied the allegations against him through presentations made before the panel by Wahab Shittu, his lawyer. The former EFCC boss also maintained that he never enriched himself while serving as head of the anti-graft agency, adding that the allegations against him are “unfortunate, spiteful, malicious and intended to cruelly destroy my hard-earned reputation”. Meanwhile, the federal government is yet to make public the White Paper on the report of the Salami panel.