Bolaji Oreagba, General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, while reacting to a publication in Daily Independent condemning the recent assaults against officers of the agency, expressed dismay to the crude and uncivilized attitude of some members of the motoring public. In a sober mood and in an emotionally laden tone, Oreagba asserted that serving the public in this clime, especially working selflessly on Lagos roads with strong passion and commitment is like committing an unpardonable sin to those whose minds are steeped in corruption and lawlessness. It will take divine intervention and protection to escape their evil machinations. He said: “The present administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, spends huge sums on the constant training of law enforcement officers, and strong emphasis laid on enforcement with civility. But, who is going to train the road users or motoring public? The motorists are expected to understand road signs, and simple principle of driving on the road, but most of them do not understand basic driving techniques, while some do not even know that they should not park on the main carriageway. “I cannot imagine how people will move hassle- free on Lagos roads without the vibrant commitment and dutiful efforts of traffic management officers. If there is order in the Heavens, there must be order on Earth too.” He declared. He revealed that the Lagos State Government among other infrastructures has invested huge sums on transport and traffic management to make life meaningful, convenient and palatable for all Lagosians and especially road users in the State. “We have the BRT System, Light Rail System, Water Transport System, Transport Interchange, Ongoing aggressive Road Reconstruction, Several Junction Improvements and Synchronized Traffic Signal Lights, Road Markings, Fabrication and Erection of Road Signage.” Speaking specifically about what the government has done for his agency, Oreagba said: “The government devoted huge sum in procuring Traffic Management Devices for LASTMA such as; Traffic Cones, Bollards, Iron Barriers, VMS (Variable Messages Signal Machines, Recovery Vehicles, Patrol Vehicles, Patrol Motorcycles and so on and so forth. “ We also have, “Erection of more Jetties, procurement of more Boats to ferry passengers and reduce pressure on road transport. Introduction of technologies for traffic control and capturing of offenders when infraction has been committed in order to reduce physical interaction between law enforcement agents and traffic violators.” POLL Despite these laudable, huge, beneficial and scientific efforts of the government, it appears not to be appreciated by some individuals who are rather attacking, damaging and vandalizing these items and furniture procured and erected with public funds. Oreagba wondered when they will turn a good leaf to public infrastructure and furniture, stressing that the culture of ‘ man know man’ has also festered lack of discipline, encouraging so many to misbehave on the roads. ”The simple rule of stopping at traffic signalized intersection or junction becomes difficult while some Motorists disdain this simple rule. It is quite unfortunate.” He, therefore, canvasses for sacrifice, commitment, civility on the part of road users and strict enforcement on the part of the law enforcement agency. “There is a need for collective responsibility, respect for simple traffic law and order, understanding, cooperation with traffic control officers, voluntary compliance with traffic laws and regulations with love for one another.” He confidently affirmed that the State is moving faster to greater height with the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.