Going by recent pronouncements from Federal Government in Abuja, the much anticipated push to bitumen exploitation drive may have begun in earnest, to the relief of local and international investors. But here is what it all mean for the economy, its infrastructures stock and the effort to wean the economy from oil dependency, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. For far too long, Nigeria’s ‘bitumen irony’ aptly captured how much the country suffers in the midst of plenty. It is ranked sixth, globally, in the list of countries with the much needed material for road asphalting; even more, the Nigerian bitumen deposits enjoys premium interest among prospective investors because it is not buried deeply. -Advertisement- It, therefore, requires less capital and efforts to mine it. But with no thanks to years of policy summersaults, inchoate body language of successive governments that has serially left investors disenchanted and discouraged, the badly needed mineral deposits have lain largely untapped while road infrastructure stock of the country suffer, badly. The country has 200,000 km of road networks. But only 60,000 km of them are paved. Added to this, demographics of the country doesn’t show a favourable outlook in the areas of critical development needed by country like Nigeria. For instance, its population is projected to reach 400 million in 2050, up from the current estimate of 203 million, given the population growth rate of 2.5 percent. The World Bank also projects that Nigeria’s current urbanisation rate at 52 percent will increase by 4 percent annually. Even so, 90 percent of goods, such as food and building materials, are transported by road to meet the demands of this rising population. This will increase demand for road infrastructure and put additional strain on the current road network, resulting in higher demand for asphalt for construction and maintenance. POLL Bitumen is a crucial component of asphalt that is used in road construction. But, considering the huge deposit of the much needed mineral, it has often baffled experts as to why Nigeria suffers poor road infrastructure and its economy still hooked mainly on oil support. “The Nigerian bitumen deposit is ranked sixth in the world in terms of reserve size. We have a total bitumen reserve size of 42.74 billion metric tonnes, which has remained unexploited for years. “This creates a huge opportunity for domestic bitumen production to replace the country’s reliance on imported bitumen,” explained Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite, Minister of Mines and Steel Development, MMSD, recently on why the bitumen policy has to change for better. As explained by the minister, so much has gone into preparing the deposits into blocs/lot to be given out to investors on concession basis. First, the minister constituted a committee to ensure that Nigeria’s bitumen resources are fully harnessed for industrial and infrastructural development. It was a nine man committee, tagged the Ministerial Bitumen Development Committee, put together on January 31, 2020. Headed by Obadiah Nkom, DG, Mining Cadastre Office, MCO, the Committee carried out an inventory of internal existing infrastructure; compiled available geological information; re-established contact with previous interested companies and developed a framework for transparent allocation of the Bitumen resources. An important part of the Committee’s recommendations was to finalise the process of engaging a Transaction Advisor to ensure the concession process is open, transparent and in accordance with global best practices as enshrined in the Nigerian Mineral and Mining Act, 2007. As a result, MMSD, on November 11, 2021, appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers, PwC, to act as its Transaction Advisor and Programme Manager for the concessioning of bitumen blocks to potential investors. “Our aim is to foster the speedy development of our Bitumen resources so that we will create jobs along the bitumen value change, generate income for government, and essentially put an end to the importation of bitumen,” explained Nkom. Cyril Azobu, lead, PwC, Nigeria, stated that the company’s mandate on the Bitumen Programme is a key component of the recommendation of the Bitumen Committee to address key challenges associated with the legacy process that has now been officially terminated. “The scope of the PwC mandate will ensure that, given uniqueness and peculiarities of the exploration, development, and extraction of Bitumen, only suitably qualified local and international investors with pre-requisite experience, technological expertise and financial capacity are selected to carry-out bitumen development to a meaningful extraction-level, through a transparent and competitive procurement process as enshrined in the Nigerian Mineral and Mining Act,” Azobu explained. There had been two previous attempts at concessioning Nigeria’s bitumen blocks. In 2002, two blocks, now 307B and 307C, were parceled out to two companies, NISSAND and Bitumen Exploration and Exploitation Company of Nigeria Limited, BEECON. However, in 2005, their licenses were revoked due to the failure of the concessionaires to live up to the development agreement signed. In 2008, another round of bitumen bidding exercise was conducted which led to the delineation of the bitumen resource areas into three large blocks A, B and C. Blocks A and C were advertised for Expression of Interest, which resulted in the pre-qualification of nine companies. The mining committee work and that of PwC were used to sort out whatever kink was left in the past transactions. Explaining the importance of the move, the Minister said that the concession option was being pursued in fulfilment of Mr President’s mandate to the ministry to be a Frontline instrument of its economic diversification policy. “Mr President gave us a mandate to galvanise the sector as a medium of diversifying the economy from oil, creating jobs and generating revenue for government. “In fulfillment of this mandate, we are here seeking to concession the nation’s bitumen blocks. The considerable road infrastructure deficit presents an inherent demand for bitumen. Hence, the development of Bitumen will lead to import substitution, local content development and increased value addition of the mining industry to the domestic economy, thereby creating jobs and generating revenue for government,” Adegbite said. In the coming days, the Minister will commence collation of Requests for Qualification (RFP) for the concession of bitumen blocks as part of the ongoing efforts to develop the country’s rich bitumen reserves for economic growth. “In continuation of our efforts to create awareness, the ministry in collaboration with PricewaterhouseCoopers, will embark on a sensitisation workshop and Investor Conference, which is scheduled to hold soon. “The event will include a media launch and a technical working session. The workshop will give the ministry the chance to pitch the Bitumen Investment opportunity to potential local and international investors both in person and virtually. The session will aid in the dissemination of information in order to facilitate and market the investment opportunity. “Following the media launch, a technical working session will be held to answer any project-related queries. The Request for Qualification will be launched on June 15, 2022,” the minister added.