Roma boss Jose Mourinho is reportedly eyeing a transfer raid of his former club Manchester United as he wants to take Aaron Wan-Bissaka to Italy. But the 59-year-old could face a transfer battle with Atletico Madrid to land his man. Wan-Bissaka joined the Red Devils in the summer of 2019 after the club shelled out an initial £45million to sign him from Crystal Palace. And he soon established himself as the side’s first-choice right-back. The 24-year-old was still a regular under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at the start of this season but lost his place after Ralf Rangnick was appointed as interim boss. And he has found starts hard to come by since December, with Diogo Dalot often preferred. -Advertisement- Wan-Bissaka has even supposedly been placed on the United transfer list ahead of Erik ten Hag’s arrival. And, according to The Sun, Mourinho is considering a move, while the full-back is also drawing admiring glances from Atletico. The player still has two years remaining on his current deal and Ten Hag could yet to decide to give him a chance to impress during pre-season. But Ten Hag reportedly has his eye on securing a new right-back so if rival clubs make a firm offer for Wan-Bissaka, club chiefs could look to cash in on him now and cut their losses, although they are unlikely to pull in anywhere near the amount they bought him for. There have been rumours the ace could return to Selhurst Park at the end of the season. The Eagles could be reluctant to match his £90,000 weekly wages, however, so a loan move could be the most viable option if he did opt to move to south London again. But Wan-Bissaka may prefer to quit the Premier League altogether for a fresh challenge abroad. Wan-Bissaka has been lauded for his defensive abilities in the past, although he is yet to make his England debut. And he will feel he has plenty to give to his next club after a frustrating spell at Old Trafford. One man who thinks United should offload Wan-Bissaka is former England right-back Danny Mills. “You could probably pull in another £20m with Wan-Bissaka,” Mills recently said. “You look at it, people thought he was going to be England’s next right-back for some considerable time and going to be a great defender. POLL “But I think we’ve seen he’s not at that level where he’s going to go on and win a Premier League and make a difference in the Champions League. Maybe Man United was just a little bit too much for him.”