LAGOS  – The Lagos State Government over the weekend informed that a permanent solution to the issue of flooding in Idumagbo, Oroyinyin, Ojo Giwa and environs in Lagos Island would be put in place before the end of the year, stressing that what presently obtains at the Ilubirin end is a temporary measure. Addressing stakeholders that included the Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon Wasiu Eshinlokun Sanni at a meeting held at the Lagos Island Local Government Area, Lagos, on the issue of continuous floods experienced in the area, Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello said the State government will provide a massive pumping station equipped with high capacity tanks. He stressed that when fully functional, the pumping station will be fitted with 3 bigger pumps of 3000m cube per minute M3 capacity each with a 400KVA generator to power it and which have the capacity of pumping all the water that might have accumulated within an hour. -Advertisement- He assured residents that what has been provided at the Ilubirin end for now is a temporary measure which takes a minimum of two days to pump water after every heavy rainfalll, adding that a basin of about 6 meters depth is part of the features of the new pump station that is coming on stream. The Commissioner told the audience that included leaders of Community Development Committees CDCs and Community Development Associations CDAS, market men and women that the major problem responsible for flooding is the depressed nature of the area which has made it difficult for water to naturally drain into the canals. He explained that the natural embankment constructed at Ilubirin should not be seen as the cause of flooding but an engineering solution that had prevented the lagoon from flowing back into the communities. Bello stressed that what was being experienced in Idumagbo and it’s environs is the effects of climate change as Lagos is one of the cities projected as one of the sinking cities in the world. He advised residents of Lagos Island to desist from dumping refuse into drains and canals, urging them to take ownership of the environment by moving against property developers who litter drains with building materials, preventing flowing drains. POLL Speaking on the complaints of unavailability of pipe borne water in Lagos island, he said the problem is receiving due attention through a complete overhaul of the pipe network and machinery of the Adiyan and Iju water works project. He said the necessary approvals have been given by Mr Governor for the projects which also include the Onikan water scheme which would restore water supply to the Island and Mainland when completed. He added that all the pipe networks supplying all the residents which are already rusted and dilapidated will also be replaced to allow pipe borne water reach all homes very soon. The Commissioner directed LAWMA to collaborate with Lagos Island Local Government on the possibility of allowing the PSP operators to discharge refuse generated by tenements at the TLS located at Ebute Elefun before being trans loaded to the Ojota dumpsite. In his address, the Deputy Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly representing Lagos Island 1, Hon Wasiu Eshinlokun Sanni, appealed to residents to cooperate with the State Government as it is set to proffer a permanent solution to flooding in the area. He pledged to use his good office to ensure that adequate funds are allocated by the State House of Assembly for the successful provision of the permanent solution. He noted that Mr. Governor has already awarded the contracts for the construction of many roads in the area, giving a commitment that the Sanwo-Olu administration is committed to providing the dividends of democracy to residents. The Chairman, Lagos Island East Local Government Area, Hon. Muibi Alabi Folawiyo in his remarks said Lagos Island needs serious regeneration and construction of drainages in order to permanently curb the menace of flooding in the area. He also called for commitment and greater sense to duty from PSP operators in Lagos Island, claiming that their level of service needs an improvement. Engr. Olalekan Shodeinde, Permanent Secretary, Office of Drainage Services, who was represented by the Director of Drainage Enforcement and Compliance, Engr. Mahmood Adegbite advised the residents to form a committee of residents and groups to liaise and meet with the officials of the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources once a month and feed the community back. He added that with the setting up of the committee, government would have first-hand information to respond adequately when developers build on drainage alignments and houses channel their soak-away into drainages.