Adaeze Ndubuisi, Chief Executive Officer of Xquisite Glow Lounge is a skincare and beauty outfit. In this conversation with JOY ANIGBGOGU, she speaks on how entrepreneurs can grow their businesses through quality services offering, impact of high foreign exchange rate on businesses, among other issues. Excerpts: You are into skin care and beauty business but we are in a state of economic downturn how do you cope? It is true that the economy is not what it should be. My kind of business is just like any other business in the country which has its unique challenges. -Advertisement- Anybody who needs the business will go for it. We have people that are in entertainment, show business and other forms of businesses that desire that they look good, such people will as a matter of necessity patronize us because our services complement their our services. It is true that the state of the economy has affected our business in a way but we still survive. The business was three years in April and so far I will say tat God has been faithful. We have customers who cannot do without us. Apart from those who patronize us because of the demand by their businesses, there are also individuals, who cannot afford not to look good or take care of their skins. It is a matter of priority or what is important to you. Businesses in Nigeria and across the globe have some form of setbacks because of the COVID-19 pandemic and a lot of countries have not fully recovered from the adverse effect of the pandemic. We think God that businesses are beginning to pick up and we are doing our best to remain afloat. How do you cope with the operation of quacks in your business? We try to offer the best of services to our customers. When the quacks offer theirs and a customer tries them, definitely he or she not go back there. POLL There are quacks everywhere. There is no business that you don’t see quacks and customers who want to pay peanuts fall for them. I say so because, if I give you a bill of say N20,000 for my services and you go to another outlet and get a bill of N10,000, you should know that something is not right. If you fall for them and have your skin hurt, then you will have yourself to blame. Secondly, you will be the one to de-market the business, tell anyone who cares to listen to avoid that particular outlet. Like they say, the taste of the pudding is in the eating, if you try us you will definitely come back and also refer customers to us. I tell people who want to excel in business to let their products or services speak for themselves. If you want to grow your business let your product or service do the advertise for you. I get a lot of customers through referrals. One thing that you should know is that quacks are lazy people, they will not want to undergo any training to start up something, but will spend time to plan on how to fake what someone else has spent time and energy to produce. My answer to your question is that we cope with them by offering excellent services to our customers and when we do that they are loyal to us; see value in what we are offering, in that way we will grow our sales. I don’t like to spend energy or bother about quacks; rather I spend that energy on innovations. I think of what to do to boost my business and make my customers happy. Can you talk about Xquisite Glow Lounge? Xquisite Glow Lounge is a skincare and beauty company located in Lagos and fully registered under Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). Our major duty is to help our valued customers regain their confidence and beauty by assisting them achieve that healthy and glowing skin tone. We have different skincare products for different skin types and shades. We are also into other beauty aesthetics like; facial treatments, micro-blading, lash extensions, etcetera. We do so much to ensure that our clients are happy and have confidence because if your skin is not looking good, it has a way of affecting your confidence. You just feel like everyone is aware that something is wrong with you, which could have a negative impact on your activities and confidence. Your career, business and so many other things, including socials could be affected. We are happy that we are putting smiles on the faces of our customers by the testimonies that we get on a daily basis. Our social media handles are always active for easy access and consultations. This is a good opportunity for me to also say that our Facebook page; xquisite glow lounge Instagram page; Qxuisiteglowlounge are very active, and we are ready to help more people who are in need. Why did you decide to invest in beauty business? I am somebody who likes to look good right from when I was growing up. I always wanted to see my skin glow, so that was one angle to it. The inspiration to go into skincare actually came after my National Youth Service Corps (NSYC). I had my orientation in the Northern part of the country. During the camping I lost my skin completely due to the weather conditions over there. It took a whole year to get my skin back. I didn’t just fold my hands during that period; I tried to get a solution to the problem. After trying so many products, I went on a research and that was how Xquisite Glow Lounge was birthed. I didn’t just start, I also went through training, got a lot of experiences and today by the grace of God we are also making our customers happy by restoring their confidence which some of them lost during the period they had challenges with their skin. It is not only when they have challenges that we render services, we also counsel them to maintain their beauty. It is one thing to have good skin; it is another thing to ensure that your skin keeps glowing. It is one of our key responsibilities, ensuring that your skin remains beautiful. How do you source for raw materials? We source both locally and internationally. Some of our products are imported and we also source some of them within the country. Some of them are the common fruits that you know which we process and use them to meet our clients’ needs. Does the high foreign exchange rate affect your business? Hike in forex and inaccessibility, is a problem that affects all businesses in the country, and not just Xquisite Glow Lounge because Nigeria is an import bound country, if you are not importing finished products, you will be importing raw materials for your production. We have always appealed to the policy makers in the country to ensure that our country is investment friendly so that not only will the local manufacturers thrive but even foreign companies will see Nigeria as an investment destination where they will come and do business. I am sure that the government will need more Nigerians to be employed, especially the youths. If that is a priority for the government, it should ensure that there is an enabling environment for businesses to grow, and one of that should be to address foreign exchange challenges. This issue is what you hear any time you have an opportunity to discuss with business owners, so it is really an issue that requires urgent attention. The imported products that we use are sold based on what we buy so that in effect means that whatever additional cost that we get for the products is also transferred to the customer since we are not a charity organization. We are in business to make profit, but it will be better for every entrepreneur to have a reduced cost of production so that he or she will be able to make more sales. The truth is that you cannot pass all the cost to your client because you want to remain competitive. Most times you will just keep only a minimum margin, in other words as a business owner you tend to forgo some of your profit to remain