Ukrainian civilians holed up inside a steel plant in Mariupol that has been under siege by Russian forces for nearly two months began evacuating over the weekend as people sheltering elsewhere in the southern port city were set to leave on Monday, local officials said. Video posted online by Ukrainian forces on Sunday showed elderly women and mothers with small children climbing over a steep pile of rubble from the sprawling Azovstal steel factory and eventually boarding a bus. More than 100 civilians were expected to arrive in the Ukrainian-controlled city of Zaporizhzhia on Monday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Sunday. -Advertisement- “Today, for the first time in all the days of the war, this vitally needed (humanitarian) corridor has started working,” Zelenskyy said in a prerecorded address on his Telegram messaging channel. There were worries about the evacuees’ safety. People fleeing Russian-occupied areas in the past have said their vehicles were fired on, and Ukrainian officials have repeatedly accused Russian forces of shelling agreed-upon evacuation routes. A Ukrainian defender of the steel plant urged groups like the United Nations and the Red Cross to ensure the safety of those being evacuated. Sviatoslav Palamar, deputy commander of the Azov Regiment, told The Associated Press (AP) in an interview that there should be guarantees from “a third party — politicians, world leaders — who will cooperate to negotiate with Russians to extract us from here.” Another of the plant’s defenders said Russian forces resumed shelling the plant on Sunday as soon as the civilians were evacuated. Denys Shlega, commander of the 12th Operational Brigade of Ukraine’s National Guard, said in a televised interview that several hundred civilians were still trapped alongside nearly 500 wounded soldiers and “numerous” dead bodies. POLL “Several dozen small children are still in the bunkers underneath the plant,” he added. As many as 100,000 people may still be in Mariupol, including an estimated 2,000 Ukrainian fighters beneath the Soviet-era steel facility, which is the only part of the city not occupied by the Russians. Worst atrocities Mariupol, which faces the Sea of Azov, has seen some of the worst atrocities in the war. A Russian airstrike hit a maternity hospital in the early weeks of the invasion, and hundreds of people were reported killed when a theater was bombed. The city is a key target because of its strategic location near the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014. Palamar told the AP that reaching some of the wounded in the steel plant was difficult. “There’s rubble. We have no special equipment. It’s hard for soldiers to pick up slabs weighing tons only with their arms,” he said. “We hear voices of people who are still alive” inside shattered buildings. UN humanitarian spokesman Saviano Abreu said civilians arriving in Zaporizhzhia, about 140 miles (230 kilometers) northwest of Mariupol, would get immediate aid, including psychological services. A Doctors Without Borders team was waiting for the UN convoy at a reception center for displaced people in the city. Palamar called for the evacuation of wounded Ukrainian fighters, as well as civilians. “We don’t know why they are not taken away, and their evacuation to the territory controlled by Ukraine is not being discussed,” he said in a video posted on the regiment’s Telegram account on Saturday. In his nightly address on Sunday, Zelenskyy accused Moscow of waging “a war of extermination,” saying Russian shelling had hit food, grain and fertilizer warehouses, and residential neighbourhoods in the Kharkiv, Donbas and other regions. More than 350,000 people have been evacuated from combat zones, thanks to humanitarian corridors pre-agreed with Moscow, he said, adding the “organization of humanitarian corridors is one of the elements of the negotiation process which is ongoing.” (SOURCE: The Manila Times)