ABUJA – An annual investment of $25 billion can help 2.6 billion people around the globe gain access to clean cooking gas between now and 2030, Timipre Sylva, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, has said. This is contained in a speech presented at the annual Symposium and Exhibition of the Societyof PetroleumEngineers(SPE) in Lagos on Tuesday, by Chief Timipre Sylva, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources. Huratius Egua, the Media Aide to the Minister of State, who made the speech available to journalists in Abuja, noted that Sylva was represented at the occasion by his technical assistant, Gas and Business, Justice Derefaka. -Advertisement- According to the speech, the world will require annual investments of an average of $60 billion to create access to electricity and clean energy supply. While about $35 billion could bring electricity access for 759 million people around the world, particularly in Africa, Sylva said another $25 billion investment would be needed every year to help 2.6billion people gain access to clean energy for cooking between now and 2030. Sylva said the required investments represent only a small fraction of the multi-trillion- dollar global energy investment needed overall under the global energy transition. United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) in a report noted that Africa, which is home to one-sixth of the world’s population and one of the world’s most affected regions by climate changen, needed about $40 billion worth of investments every year, if it was to meet its energy supply needs. “Everyone in the world could have access to clean, affordable energy within the next nine – ten years if countries modestly increase investments, according to the UN’s Department of Economic and Social Affairs. POLL “A major question that is yet to be answered is whether Africa will benefit from an equitable share in this global investment and growth or will continue to fall further behind global standards as encapsulated in the UN’s 17-SDGs,” Sylva said. Despite the long-term and required drop in demand for fossil fuels, he said short-term demand and prices remain robust, providing strong commercial justification for their extraction and a need to smoothen the transition. Despite contributing less than 6 percent of world’s energy consumption and 2 percent of total global emissions, the Minister said there was the need for the continent to shift attention to cleaner energy use. With significantly untapped fossil fuel reserves, which could provide much-needed foreign direct investment and export revenue, Sylva said Africa has the ability to play a leading role in the transition to a net-zero energy future.