–Say Alteration of Election Time-Table Portends Danger for the Integrity of the Electoral Process ABUJA – As political activities heat up ahead of the 2023 general election, members of the Civil Society Organisation (CSOs) have urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to stick strictly to the timetable it has issued for the polls regardless of the pressures mounted on it by political parties to alter it. The 18 registered political parties under the aegis of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) had recently asked the election umpire to extend the timetable citing fasting and holidays of the two major religions held in March and April as reasons for the requested adjustments. -Advertisement- In a statement signed by 11 of the CSOs maintained that any attempt to change the timetable will raise further credibility issues around the coming election. The CSOs maintained that any attempt to succumb to the wishes of political parties would, unfortunately, raise doubt in the minds of stakeholders and the voters. “INEC has made known since February 2022 (3 months ago), and parties have subsequently sent their own timetable to INEC and shared it with the public. Furthermore, the public has been awash with different aspirants on different political parties’ platforms’ declarations of intentions supported by the purchase of forms to back their declarations. In essence, the process of party primaries has commenced. “Some parties are at top gear in their candidate selection with the Labour Party already producing its presidential candidate on May 11, 2023. It would be unfair and inconsiderate of these efforts by parties if the EMB at this stage changed the timetable, part of the rules of the electoral process that ensure certainty and safeguard the integrity of the process. “So, we currently watch with dismay at the various attempts by Political Parties to pressurize the electoral umpire to suit their ends, and by so doing alter the time stipulations of INEC. POLL “We are also dismayed at the backhand attempt by the National Assembly to intrude in this process with their last-minute amendment to the new Electoral Act 2022, which just became operational as of February 25, 2022. the implementation of which only just started. “We categorically state that any attempt to alter the present timeline is tantamount to indirectly shifting the General Election forward and away from 25 February and 11 March earlier fixed by INEC, a move which Nigerians will vehemently resist. “We are therefore demanding that in the interest of transparency, accountability, and integrity of the election, INEC, as an impartial umpire should maintain its timetable which was released on February 26, 2022, for the following reasons: “Parties have already commenced the process and it is unfair to extend the period;there are interrelated dependencies that INEC is working with to ensure transparent, well-conducted elections in February and March 2023, to push back on the timelines is to affect the election preparations; Governance has taken a back seat to politics despite the existential threats of insecurity and the hardship Nigerians face due to the rise in fuel and food – we need those in office to focus on their responsibilities for governance and this will only happen after the primaries. “The longer the period within which the leading parties have to engage in the primaries, the more unstable the political, economic, and social sectors will be. “Any review, change, or alteration of the timeline for one activity will penultimately affect other activities and put unnecessary constraints on the Commission. This will ultimately result in more complications than what the alteration seeks to achieve.”