Samuel Ogidan, Abuja Emefiele Support Group (ESG) has advised some Nigerians calling on the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele to resign to desist from such calls. The ESG described such calls as a distraction to the CBN Governor, who is committed to repositioning the nation’s economy. -Advertisement- The group also took the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, Prof Itse Sagay, and Omowole Sowore to the cleaner, describing them as tribal commentators. The ESG, in a statement by its Director of Communications, Ms. Benigma Ejimba, faulted Akeredolu, Sagay, and Sowore for remaining silent on the issue of President of African Development Bank and former Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Akiwunmi Adesina, who 28 groups raised money and bought the same form for, while they are busy feasting on that of Emefiele. “You asked the CBN Governor to resign but kept mute on Adesina, ADB President, how do we describe this if not being tribal?” the group asked. In the same vein, the Arewa Consultative Youths Movement (ACYM), Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youths Movement, Oduduwa Youths, and Middle Belt Youths, described both Akeredolu and Sagay as ethnic jingoists. The groups wondered why Akeredolu and Sagay will call for Emefiele’s sacking or resignation while sparing Dr. Adesina. POLL The groups under the aegis of the Nigerian Ethnic Youths Leaders Council (NEYLC), in a statement by the President of Arewa Consultative Youth Movement, Kabiru Yusuf, said the calls for Emefiele’s resignation exposed them for who they are. The statement reads: “We have read about the diatribes unleashed by Akeredolu and Sagay on Emefiele over the form he did not purchase by himself but was bought by three groups. “Similar scenario has played out with groups buying the form for Akinwunmi Adesina. “We have waited with rapt attention for these individuals to also attack Adesina the way they did for Emefiele, but we have not yet heard from them. “This situation clearly exposed Akeredolu for who they are: tribal commentators. “They have since gone into mute mode possibly because a Yoruba man is involved in this case. “We, therefore, call on them to put off their tribal toga and approach issues with objectivity. They should stop distracting Emefiele who is committed to repositioning the nation’s economy.”