LAGOS – Quacks in the skin beauty industry will always thrive when professionals do not express their expert views and opinions. Those who patronise charlatans have looked back in regret because of the eventual damage to their cherished skin. Despite the proliferation of quack skin beauticians, there are still a few who have positioned themselves as professionals in the industry. -Advertisement- Gladys Adurojaiye, lead formulator and Chief Executive Officer at Medas Botanics, stands tall building a trusted brand in the skin beauty industry in Nigeria. According to her, Meda Botanics is a natural skincare brand, which focuses on enhancing and maintaining the natural complexion of women. She explained that Meda Botanics has come into the beauty space to make a difference having successfully formulated a wide range of products to help rejuvenate, nourish and keep the skin radiant without bleaching and damaging it. Taking us on a journey of how is all began for her, Adurojaiye said: “Medas Botanics started with one goal, that is, to deliver healthy and glowing skin to individuals who are conscious of the health of their skin. “I started dreaming of producing plant-based skincare products as far back as 2006. I remember using a product introduced to me by a friend, which damaged my skin after about a month of using it. The outcome made me lose self-confidence. I lost my self-esteem and I vowed never to try such again.” POLL She revealed that the unpleasant experience inspired her search for a skincare brand that would just enhance her skin without bleaching it or damaging it. Her search led her to birthing her own beauty brand known as Medas Botanics. Describing the company’s brand offering, the skin expert noted that Medas Botanics is a safe and affordable skincare brand for everyone, as her range of products targets beauty conscious individuals at varying age groups as well as have formulated products for children and adults. “We have wide range of skin beauty products from treatment to maintenance. Some of them include Visage Glow to help treat acne, Clear Glow for people dealing with hyperpigmentation, Luscious Glow for dry and sensitive skin, Sheer Glow to maintain the natural complexion, skin nutrient made with tomatoes extract for natural complexion among others.” Beyond profit, the skin expert described her moment of joy as the privilege of creating employment for many young women, as well as being to reduce quacks through her genuine product creation and entrant into the industry. Adurojaiye said that she is not oblivious of challenges in today’s business environment. She recalled a memorable challenge in her journey. “Beyond rising cost of production affecting many entrepreneurs today, I’d say my most challenging experience was shipping products to the customers from my location. “I remember a time a customer’s tyre was burst when she went to the park to pick up her product. The driver insulted her and returned the package back to me. I got to my location and he asked me to pay him for returning it. “I wept and said I wasn’t going to continue the business again. But thank God for partnership with DHL. We now ship worldwide without hassles. “Another challenge peculiar in the industry is the fact that everybody wants to be white. So many do not believe in achieving a healthy skin that glows, everybody wants to be white overnight. “This we have been able to solve by tailoring my offering to healthy skin lovers and educating them on the benefits of using safe skincare products against using harsh chemicals that damage the skin. Interestingly, I call my customers healthy skin lovers,” she added. Speaking on business growth, the entrepreneur has this to say. “Growing a business in Nigeria is tough, however, it is an aspect of business that is inevitable. Every living business must grow through the right knowledge and process.” The entrepreneur explained further that social media also contributed positively to the growth of her brand. She said it paved the way for her business growth. She added that she could not have done so much in terms of marketing, solving customer issues, taking orders without the social media. Adurojaiye advised struggling entrepreneurs in Nigeria to continue to stay focused, be consistent, have the right networks and avail themselves of regularly required professional development trainings.