LAGOS  – The global market of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), commonly known as drone would climb to $150 billion in the next 13 years, Mr. Fortune Idu, the Chairman Droneteck 2022 has said. This is as Engr. Akin Olateru, the Commissioner; Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has called on the government to simplify the approval processes for the importation and deployment of the facility in the country. Idu, while speaking during a welcome address at the second edition of the Drone Technology Conference Expo held at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos on Tuesday, said that before the end of the current decade, UAV and autonomous vehicle industry would experience exponential growth. -Advertisement- According to him, the application of drones would be found in virtually every sector, describing the industry as a game changer with huge potential to create jobs in software and hardware engineering. The organiser of the event also said that the industry would empower other sectors to deliver speed, efficiency and cost effective services. Idu put the Compound Annual Growth Rate of the sector globally at 18 per cent and projected that it would reach $150 billion in the year 2035. He stated that DRONNETECX was creating access for Nigeria and indeed Africans to tap into this huge market for job and wealth creation and charged all participants to tap into the opportunities offered by the exhibition. He added: “This millennium has seen the evolvement of various disruptive technologies from internet and other advanced equipment.” POLL Also Olateru in his address said that there was the need for the Nigerian Government to simplify the processes of approval for the deployment of drone technology in the country. Olateru stated that the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) was too busy and serious to be responsible for approval of drones, stressing that the simplification of it would lead to the growth and development of the nation. He advised that the country’s regulation and policy should be geared towards the development in and around the world. He challenged Nigeria, especially its youth to invest on research and development in order to meet up with the other countries of the technology had given the country a huge opportunity to grow. world, pointing out that the drone Besides, Olateru explained that drone could be used for security of restricted areas like the perimeter fences and advised the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to invest in the technology for improved security. He said: “As it is, Nigeria is still not thinking in the areas drones can be useful to its economy. Drone is used in several sectors like agriculture, medicine, traffic and others. There are lots of jobs that we can do with drones. I am happy that members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) are here. The young graduates need to think out of the box. If we the older generation were sleeping, you need to move forward. “Nigeria needs to wake up. The drone is a big market for everyone. The drones AIB has today can actually detect bodies in Search and Rescue because it is heat sensitive. I don’t see any field in the world today that you can’t apply drone technology. We need to move fast because the world is not waiting for us. The first drone was manufactured for accident investigation in 2014 and AIB had its own in year 2020, which is still not bad.”