Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, said it remains committed to providing first-class services, thereby contributing to promoting a strong insurance culture in Nigeria. It noted that through its specially designed products, it has continued to promote trust, confidence as well as increase awareness on the importance of insurance, especially among its customers. Insurance penetration in Nigeria remains low as only about 5 per cent of the nation’s adult population have one form of insurance cover or the other, according to the National Insurance Commission. This is further heightened by low consumer awareness campaign, negative perception due to low financial literacy level and Nigeria’s low level of economic growth in recent years. These have continued to affect the demand for Insurance and growth of the sector. -Advertisement- Akinjide Orimolade, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Insurance, while commenting on the several initiatives embarked upon by the insurance provider, noted that since its inception, Stanbic IBTC Insurance Limited has continued to champion the use of digitalisation in insurance practice, thus promoting insurance penetration, as well as embarking on several enlightenment campaigns. “Insurance in Nigeria has been challenged by several factors such as economic, social and religious factors. These factors have continued to affect the growth and acceptance of the industry. As a pre-requisite for addressing these challenges, we have embarked upon several enlightenment campaigns targeted at changing people’s perception regarding insurance. We have continued to take insurance awareness campaign to various groups and trade associations, as well as to corporate organisations,” Akinjide said. “Also, with the increase campaign on the use and importance of technology in the business operations, Stanbic IBTC Insurance has been at the forefront of providing digitalisation in insurance practice. The Insurance Module available on the Stanbic IBTC Mobile App offers customers the ability to view the status of their insurance policies, view their transaction history, renew insurance policies, report claims and upload claim-related documents and pictures, thereby offering ease and convenience to our esteemed customers,” the Stanbic IBTC Insurance CE added Akinjide noted that through its insurance offerings, Stanbic IBTC Insurance continues to provide safety and security against uncertainties in human lives, encourage savings amongst its customers, provide medical support through its partnership with leading health management organisations across the country, and spread insurance risk while promoting national economic growth. These, he said, is having the desired impact. He, therefore, assured Nigerians of Stanbic IBTC Insurance’s unwavering commitment to championing the growth of the insurance industry in the country