The Standard-bearer of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dr Wole Oluyede, has admonished Ekiti electorates to vet the credentials of those seeking to govern them carefully ahead of the June 18, 2022 Governorship election alleging that most gubernatorial candidates parade fake accomplishments. Speaking through the Director-General of his campaign organisation, Mrs Omotunde Fajuyi, the ADC candidate said his mission is to rejuvenate Ekiti economy and mentor fresh blood in the act of politics and governance. The ADC flagbearer argued that Ekiti politics requires a paradigm shift from the alleged self-inflicted poverty. -Advertisement- Oluyede, a global acclaimed medical Doctor and consultant said he remains the best material for the plum job based on his exposure and  track records According to the ADC flagbearer, the most outstanding thing about his candidature is the fact that “For the first time Ekiti will be having someone, who is accomplished in his chosen career. It has never happened in Ekiti. He is a successful medical practitioner and consultant. Others are just parading  fake accomplishments.” Oluyede said: “I received training all over the world and got international laurels. He has a global outlook but is very connected to the grassroots. Our manifesto captures policies that are practicable and not bogus promises that won’t affect ordinary men on the streets positively.” Since he joined the race, Oluyede disclosed that his party has been breaking news grounds and attracting more supporters in at least 14 out of the16 Local Government areas of the State. Oluyede described ADC as a big party that is strongly and widely supported by civil servants, artisans and other strata of the society. POLL “We are on the ground in 14 Local Governments out of 16 and have a fair and admissible presence in two. We are strong in Ado, Ikere, Ijero, Ekiti West, Ilejemeje, Ekiti East, Ekiti Southwest, Irepodun/Ifelodun and others. We have a well-structured reach and our campaign strategy is principally village-to-village and house-to-house and we are getting results,” he said. The Australian based Medical Doctor who decried what he termed the “twin evil” of vote-buying and rigging also sharp electoral practices have taken a toll on the global image of Nigeria. The ADC chieftain, therefore charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)and security agencies to ensure the sanctity of the ballot by checkmating all tendencies for fraudulent practices before, during and after the poll. Oluyede described himself as the most qualified to govern Ekiti in terms of exposure, professional accomplishments, experience and preparedness for the task of bringing the required dividends of democracy to the populace. The medical practitioner, said: “We have confidence in INEC and security operatives to be able to superintend over a credible election. “We have been working with the institutions and we have been telling them that Ekiti is yearning for a change. The security and INEC can’t afford to allow rigging. The system now won’t allow that. Trying to rig is like a camel passing through the eye of a needle, it is now difficult”. On the issue of vote-buying, Oluyede regretted that what started as a welfare package in the olden days for voters is now snowballing into a dangerous game that was destroying the electoral system. “It started then as a welfare package for the electorate, but politicians had turned it into buying and selling and it is very bad. But the good side of it is that majority of the people are wiser and what is resonating on their lips is that they will collect their money and vote according to their consciences.”