AWKA – The Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL), the apex socio-political youth group in the South East geopolitical zone has said that masterminds of killing and burning of public properties in the South-East must be those opposed to the release of leader of Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB). The group in a statement signed by its President-General, Hon. Goodluck Ibem on the burning of Idemili North Council Secretariat and magistrate Court said it is upset over the incident and described it as act wickedness. It will be recalled that the Secretariat and magistrate Court were burnt down on Sunday night. -Advertisement- COSEYL lamented that “while some religious extremists are busy destroying the properties and goods of Igbos in Sokoto and Yobe States in the Northern part of the country, another set of criminals are in our doorstep burning down government property in Igboland. “This smacks of a conspiracy to scuttle the progress, security and development of Ndigbo”. According to the group, the fact that the attack on Idemili North came barely 24 hours after Governor Charles Soludo paid a visit to the leader of the IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu at DSS custody Abuja confirmed that the hoodlums are not on the same page with IPOB. Professor Soludo, it recalled had upon assumption of office had promised that he will meet his fellow colleagues, Igbos leaders and stakeholders to ensure the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu from DSS custody. The recent move to see Kanu confirms that he met what he earlier said. But according to the group  “the burning and destruction of Idemili North Secretariat and the Magistrate Court in Ogidi barely 24 hours after the Governor visited Mazi Kanu at DSS custody confirms our earlier stance that those behind the attacks, killings and burning of government properties and institutions in Anambra State are elements opposed to the release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and the progress of Igboland. POLL “These elements are making huge profits from the incarceration of Kanu and his release will scuttle their illicit business hence the attack on Anambra State Government properties just in a bid to discourage the Governor of the State from his legitimate pursuit that will bring lasting peace to the South East zone. “The truth is that the incarceration of Nnamdi Kanu brought to South East high level of insecurity to a once very peaceful region and only his release will douse the tension and restore peace and tranquility to the region”, it noted, adding: “Those opposed to Mazi Kanu’s released are enemies of Ndigbo and are the architects of the current insecurity that is ravaging the zone.”