ABUJA – Professor Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has charged the nation’s security agencies to up the ante in securing the country for the 2023 general election and other off cycle elections slated for June and July 2022. With just nine months to the general elections and the frightening security environment all over the place, the INEC Chairman said the security agencies can still do something to secure the country for the polls, pointing out that the general security situation across the country is a source of concern. Addressing the security Agencies under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Consultative Meeting on Election Security (ICCES) at its 2nd quarterly Consultative meeting with INEC, Prof Yakubu underscored the need for the Agencies to expedite action on fighting insecurity as the commission will not alter the time timetable of the 2023 Election. -Advertisement- “The general security situation in the country and its impact on the electoral process is a source of concern to the Commission. However, we are confident that with nine months to the 2023 General Election, there is enough time to respond to the security challenges and secure the nation for elections to take place nationwide. The Timetable for the election has also been released. “Let us not wait until a few weeks to the election before we realise that time is not on our side and begin to seek for extension of timelines. The time to act is now. We wish to reassure the security agencies that we will continue to work cooperatively with you to ensure the success of all forthcoming elections and electoral activities. The State Resident Electoral Commissioners RECs he said have been mandated to provide a regular update on the security situation in their States to assist the work of the security. Aside from the 2023 general election, the INEC boss said Commission need the support of the security agencies to conduct credible poll in the series of off-cycle elections including: “The Governorship elections in Ekiti State on 18th June 2022 and in Osun State on 16th July 2022. Furthermore, we have pending bye-elections in 18 constituencies across the country involving three Senatorial Districts, one Federal Constituency (i.e. House of Representatives seat) and 14 State Constituencies (i.e. House of Assembly seats). In addition, as political parties end their primaries on 3rd June 2022 and candidates emerge, campaign in public by political parties will commence nationwide as provided by the Timetable for the election in line with the provision of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended)”.