ISEGHE AJAYI Despite the unfavorable state of the economy, some people still find it difficult to control the urge of buying items that are not expedient, simply because they have eyes for them and the wherewithal at that particular time. There is no way you can live within your income when you keep indulging in unplanned purchases especially in a distressed economy like ours. -Advertisement- Agreed, that the present situation has made ‘savings’ very tasking, but one needs to ponder on emergencies that are inevitable. There is need to prepare for it by setting aside certain portion of your income, no matter how meager it is, to avoid financial embarrassment and this can only be feasible through proper financial planning especially in the area of purchases. It is very imperative to plan your purchases and try as much as possible to stick to your shopping list if any, so as to create room for small savings by eliminating items that are not essential. Impulse buying is an unplanned decision in making purchases you did not intend to have before leaving your home. Besides, it can mess up your budget if not controlled, thus, making savings a difficult one. It is quite true that Irrespective of how good you are at saving and living frugally, sometimes, it can be difficult to avoid that impulse purchase at that moment and there is nothing wrong with such decision. But, when it becomes a habit, then there is a problem. POLL Do you know that steering clear of impulse purchases at times can help you to track your expenses and manage your income which certainly will help you not to live from hand to mouth? But, for those who are living extravagant and false life, survival in this harsh economy will be quite tough such that they will be left with no option but to borrow money to make ends meet regardless of their earnings. With proper planning, self-discipline and prudence you can enhance your financial life even in this harsh economy by resisting impulse buying. The under listed tips if adhered to will assist you to steer clear of impulse buying: Ponder On Your Purchases When you see something that you desire and it is not included on your shopping list, do not be hasty in purchasing it but rather, take your time and think about its worth before going for it. Also, the longer you ponder on the purchases, the better but If you still strongly want to make the purchase at the end of the time of waiting, then you can go ahead. Do Not Shop When Stressed There are so many better ways to ease stress that do not involve spending any money. Shopping when stressed can lead to a rancorous cycle because you will end up spending more money on items that are irrelevant. More so, you are not in your right frame of mind. If you are stressed out, try to go for a walk or listen to music as this will lighten your mood and will help you avoid spending money at all costs. Monitor Your Urges Make it a point to monitor your urges, if it’s a big problem. Keep a little piece of paper, and put a score mark on it every time you get the urge. This helps you to become more conscious of the urge, which is usually something we do not even observe. Different symptoms can appear, such as faster breathing or a faster heart rate, when we have the urge. But by becoming more aware of the changes in our body, we can begin to get the urges under control. Do Your Shopping With Prudent People If you have impulse-happy shopping groups, it can be easy to let them persuade you that all the outfits you just tried on look great, and you should completely buy them. If you want to shop socially, do it with people who have prudent spending habits as this will enable to control your expenses and enhance your savings. Buy Items You Can Return If you actually have a problem with impulse purchases, you can buy your items from stores with good return policies. Again, if you buy something you didn’t plan to buy, make sure you hang on to your sales receipts. Often, impulse purchases lead to buyer’s remorse. More and more retailers have adopted a “no questions asked” policy when it comes to customers returning or exchanging purchases within a specified period. They want to keep you happy, and keep you as a future customer. But don’t overdo the returns or use an item before you bring it back to the store. Pay Cash Going with cash for shopping will help you to control your expenses as several studies have shown that when people pay in cash rather than using a credit card, they incline to spend less, because it is difficult to part with all your cash. Shop Less Frequently The more frequently you shop, the more likely you are to impulse-buy. To avoid impulse buying, make a list of items that would last you for between two weeks and one month to reduce the your patronage level. Stick To Your Purchases Budget Making a list before you go shopping and sticking to it is important as you will be able to eliminate a lot of little impulse purchases. For other purchases, make it a habit to plan them, save for them, shop around, and even see if you can get it for free. Going through this process ensures that your purchases are more thoughtful, and less on impulse. Plan ahead for birthdays, Christmas gifts, and other large purchases that you know are coming up in the month ahead. Pursue Your Financial Goals It is useful to have clear goals in mind at all times. What do you want to do with your life? Do you have financial goals that you are trying to accomplish, in the long-term and medium-term? Keeping your savings goals in mind will go a long way to put you under control or check when you are about to make a purchase or purchases.