When the English Philos­opher, Thomas Hobbes, writing in the Seventeenth Century, spoke of life that is “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short”, he most probably had Nigeria under Muhammadu Buhari in mind. We have seen this reified in the last two weeks of anger and anxiety as we faced the cold reality of an organized jungle that our country has become. The Hobbesian state has been cap­tured in its most brutal nakedness through the countless grisly pogroms that have taken place in different parts of the country, especially in Plateau and Benue states, in the last few years with everyone as witness to govern­ment’s assumed helplessness. But the two blood-cuddling events that were recorded last week – the lynching and burning of Deborah Samuel (Emman­uel) in Sokoto and David Imoh in Lagos by different variants of the same mon­ster – truly confounded me by their un­explainable audacity. Watching videos of those beasts in human clothes incin­erating a human being with heartless glee in Sokoto was an indescribable anguish. So much has been written about the tragedy that there is really not much to be said again – but how does one forget such things? As for poor David Imoh, the Sound Engineer who met his end in Lagos, the savagery visited upon him has somewhat been submerged by the fact that record of the events was not captured by the per­petrators. But can a people truly go to sleep with these numbing images of barbarity on their mind? One way to have appeased our collective feeling of dehumanization would have been a determination on the part of the gov­ernment to round up all, not some, of the perpetrators and try them for murder, gruesome murder. But avail­able reports appear to create doubts concerning the true charges that have been brought against the only two sus­pects now in police custody while the prime suspects have since vanished into non-existence. As you probably know, they would not be found. When people commit heinous crimes and live to gloat over their victims, the law has lost its usefulness. This is my agony! Which decent society aspires to greatness and glory on the crest of impunity? Now, these gruesome realities acted on Nigerian ever-crimson stage have precipitated fear across the country and the result is panic. Nigerians no longer believe in the potency of state authorities because if it has achieved anything, it is the breaching of its mandate. Institutions erected to guar­antee the rights of the individual have become complicit in the denial of those rights. The now popular non-state actors are cajoling the society into submission and state authorities are helpless. When people reach that stage of despair that Nigerians have reached, they would believe anything they are told, including rumours of an im­pending holocaust. Now, consider this message that has been circulating on WhatsApp this week – it is a message of an imminent invasion by vagrant bands of warmongers, coming across Nigerian porous borders, I suppose: “Urgent Information: Please, be care­ful. This week will be eventful. Please do not stay out as there will be a lot of aggression, sacrifices and the like. Please, make all arrangements to re­turn home quickly and pray for the youth. Please, inform your friends and share the info: stay home after 6pm from this Wednesday for at least 10 days. There are heavily armed peo­ple who have infiltrated the country from the west and they are already scattered around the country. As of this Wednesday at 8pm there will be a general roundup in the whole country regardless of your identity card. It is not to be neglected talk about it to your relatives, too. This is the message of the military chaplain. To be taken very seriously, dear family.” This is just a version of the unending rumours of war that have now invaded the Nige­rian space. -Advertisement- But these rumours are not without foundation. The two cases of savage­ry already mentioned here which occurred last week were, as some ev­idence have shown, perpetrated by daring foreigners. Nigeria’s greatest threat is its manifest refusal to man its borders while hordes of hostile no­mads pour in by the minute. The num­ber of migrants from Chad and Niger that have overrun Nigerian forests in recent times can constitute more than a state, and they keep coming – with fierce determination. They operate with telling impudence, and they are mostly – when they accept to do legiti­mate business – the Okada riders you know very well who, at the slightest provocation, draw out their daggers. Now, David Imoh is gone, dehuman­ized and roasted by faceless vagabonds who have become lords on Nigerian roads. Their most evident source of in­solence and claim to immunity derive from the powers that be – no more no less. He who sits atop the government of the day scoffs at all protestations against them – accommodate your neighbour, he said, and soon, when these vagrants have overrun the for­ests and the streets, they will overrun the government. The stage for that is pretty set. And we, what are we doing about this since it is now all too clear that the government would sooner sacri­fice true Nigerians than allow these vagrants to be contained? If you ask me, I will confess that I am unequivocally disappointed by the lack of will which state governments have demonstrated in the face of these assaults on their people. Is it fear of the central authority? Congenital weak­nesses? Corruption and selfishness? Maybe some or all of them. But a bit of the fictive world will do, and I will take you to Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart. In that narrative, Obieri­ka (perhaps the next most important character in that story after the hero himself, Okonkwo) visits his friend, Okonkwo, in Mbanta (the latter’s mother’s place where he is serving a seven-year exile for committing a female crime) and narrates the new developments in Umuofia, their clan, especially concerning the insults their people endure daily. Okonkwo is baf­fled that such things could happen in his proud homeland. “Perhaps I have been away too long,” he (Okonkwo) said almost to himself. “But I cannot understand these things you tell me. What is it that has hap­pened to our people? Why have they lost the power to fight?” A break here. I ask you, too: “What has happened to Nigerians? Why have they lost the power to fight?” POLL Back to the narrative, Obierika gives his own, equally memorable, answer: “How do you think we can fight when our own brothers have turned against us? The white man is very clever. He came quietly and peaceably with his religion. We were amused at his fool­ishness and allowed him to stay. Now he has won our brothers and our clan can no longer act like one. He has put a knife on the things that held us together and we have fallen apart.” Now, do you get my drift? Let me help you. How do you think Nigerians can fight when our brothers (and sisters) have turned against us? Buhari is very clever. He came preten­tiously with his Change Agenda. Some of us were deceived and voted for him. Now he has cajoled our leaders into si­lence and our people can no longer act like one. He has put confusion in our midst and we have fallen apart. There, then, is the synopsis. The heart of the matter is that we continue to endure this pain because our leaders, especially state governors in the South, condone it, and they condone it because they are afraid to lose something or want to gain something. In Edo State, for instance, where you have perhaps the largest number of camps belong­ing to armed Fulani herders who have taken the place of the original owners, the governor, Godwin Obaseki, cannot set state or communal forces into ac­tion – despite countless protests by his people against their eviction from their ancestral lands by foreign invaders – be­cause he wants to be in the good books of Abuja. He is about the most effem­inate governor I have yet seen. Lord, have mercy! If he were the governor of Benue State, that state would since have become a Fulani emirate. In Lagos where, moved by the Admi­ralty Way tragedy, the state government has announced its intention to clamp­down on Okada in six local government areas, I am watching to see how far it would go. But why only six local gov­ernment areas? Those roving threats to humanity will move to other areas of the state and continue their hostil­ity there. Simple! The state govern­ment should be thinking of reviving its transport plan and contracting the space available to those street-plying villains. And for the Nigerian people, let’s start thinking of how to make Nige­ria less attractive to foreign invaders while it can still be done. The spectre of invasion stands solid before us and it would just be foolhardy to think it can’t happen. We should certainly get tired of complaining and start think­ing of practical means to reclaim our country. May God help us.