KANO – All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Kano Central Senatorial District, Abdulsalam Abdulkarim, popularly known as A. A. Zaura, on Monday said he would support any candidate that clinched the party Presidential ticket during the forthcoming primary election. Addressing newsmen in Kano, Alhaji Zaura said “Allah gives power to whom He wishes, and I wish my man, Senator Tinubu to clinch the ticket, but if Allah said no, there is nothing I can do than to support whoever delegates of our party will vote for at the party convention” The Tinubu top ally explained that “the best man for is Asiwaju, I have done my best like other compatriots to see to his success, but we will accept the outcome in whatever it comes.” -Advertisement- Zaura, who emerged as the candidate of the APC for Kano Central Senatorial District in the just concluded primary election, also vowed to put an end to the domination of Kano politics by the duo of Senators Kwankwaso and Shekarau. The APC candidate said the alliance between the two former governors would only “hasten their end politically because their time have gone politically and they should leave the stage now that the ovation is loudest for the young one to continue where they will have stopped politically.” He said “Although, I humbly respect the duo of Ibrahim Shekarau and Kwankwaso as my former bosses and two former Kano State Governors, but that is because it will not stop me from beating them hands down on the day of the election.” According to him “before the so-called two political giants of Shekarau and Kwankwaso wake up from their slumber, I must have defeated them on the day of our election, and this is a promise.” He, however, recalled that in 2019 when he contested the Governorship election said “I was facing the entire Kano, but now I’m facing only 15 Local Government Areas, so the likes of Shekarau and Kwankwaso should know that their political era is over they should go and rest,” . POLL Zaura said his emergence as the candidate of the APC “is in the handiwork of Allah and the teeming supporters. I encountered a stumbling block but Allah was in control.” He said that “I’m extending my hands of cooperation to them. They should come and join the winning train because ours is the winning team God willing.”