ABUJA  – It was a moment of joy, ex­pression of hope and excite­ment on Saturday as a lead­ing photojournalist/reporter with the Daily Independent in Abuja, Mr. Jide Oyekun­le, became the Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory Correspondents’ Chapel. Oyekunle, until his elec­tion, was the Secretary Gen­eral for two terms serving with two different chairmen in the process. The ace journalist who assured colleagues of his resolve to tackle harassment of Journalists by security op­eratives as well as wage war against fake journalists in the FCT, emerged unopposed along with his deputy, Ms. Grace Ike of the Silver Bird Group, to succeed Mr. Philip Nyam of the New Telegraph, Abuja Bureau, and Huram King of Gotel Television, re­spectively. -Advertisement- Oyekunle and Ike cover the National Assembly, with the latter currently chairing the House of Representatives Press Corps. Out of the four-man ex­ecutive elected and inaugu­rated on Saturday, the House Press Corps produced three, including the Treasurer, Mr. Emmanuel Ehijene of Plus TV Africa. Speaking shortly after their inauguration, the Chairman said he and the outgone executive had to “rescue the chapel three years ago from the hands of those who wanted to trade with it and bring the image and reputation of our noble profession into disrepute.” “But today, we did not regret any of our action be­cause we have brought the chapel on the path of honour. I am proud and happy to tell you today that we are one of the vibrant, active and per­forming Chapels in the FCT Council. “We have organised and participated in different novelty football matches and table tennis tournaments and won medals, though we did not win the trophy. POLL “We have organised intel­lectual programmes such as lectures, symposia, corre­spondents’ roundtable, med­ical check-ups and health talk for our members. We achieved these within three years despite the scourge of Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Listing his agenda for the new executives, the Chair­man said the Chapel under his leadership would focus on training and capacity build­ing for members, just as he expressed determination to stamp out fake journalists and tackle acts of violence targeted at journalists by security operatives in the territory. “Attacks and impunity on crimes against journalists under this government has been on the increase because of their intolerant posture to criticisms and dissenting voices. “Our members have be­come subject of attacks in the hands of security opera­tives while carrying out their statutory and constitutional duties,” he said.