IBADAN – The crisis rocking the Social Democratic Party (SDP) deepens as concerned stakeholders of the party in the South-West have disowned the Acting National Chairman, Alhaji Sheu Musa Garba and Acting National Secretary, Dr Olu Agunloye, saying they continuing parading themselves is illegal, null and void. They also warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and all aspirants to desist from granting recognition or dealing with them as nobody elected them into those positions but they only did position swapping. Chairman of South-West Concerned Stakeholders and Ondo State Secretary of SDP, Dr Sola Agboola, while speaking with journalists after their meeting at the Oyo State SDP Secretariat in Yemetu, Ibadan, urged the presidential aspirant of the party, Adewole Adebayo and other aspirants to be cautious not to be victims of misfortune. -Advertisement- Agboola urged the leadership of the party to ensure reconciliation so as not to jeopardise the chances of the party in the next election. He disclosed that Agunloye had been suspended in Ward 10 in his Akoko Local Council of Ondo State, adding that it is illegal for Agunloye to still parade himself as a member and National Secretary of the party. “Agunloye should vacate his office because whatever he does now, is void and takes no effect. He should stop interfering in the affairs of the party in the South-West. We are saying no to position swapping; we are saying no to the leadership of Alhaji Garba as the party’s interim National Chairman. “The proposed SDP National Convention is illegal, we have meet here, and we are heading to court to seek redress. “All aspirants have been warned to look before they leap. They should not purchase the forms yet until issues are resolved. They should ensure that a perfect reconciliation is done before they purchase forms. POLL “It is illegal for Dr Olu Agunloye to parade himself as national chairman or Secretary of the party as the case may be. The assignment he has is to come and make money. He has been suspended from the party in his ward 10 in Akoko North local government area in Ondo State. “The aspirants have been warned to beware of the antics of Dr Agunloye. Whatever he is doing is illegal because he has been suspended from the party. “The presidential aspirant, Prince Adewole Adebayo and other aspirants have been warned not to purchase expression and nomination forms yet until a genuine reconciliation is done.” Agboola, however, said that the South-West SDP believes and recognises the leadership of Chief Supo Sonibare, pending the pronouncement of the court on the matter.