Commends Party Members For Successful Primaries LAGOS – Chief Bode George, former deputy national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged party members on the need to embrace unity so that they can have a successful outing at the 2023 general elections. The party leader who gave the charge on Thursday during a meeting with party members in his Ikoyi office, took time to appreciate the members for their roles in ensuring successful primary elections across the state. -Advertisement- He said, “The journey to 2023 has started, I want to appeal to you not to fight anybody, but close ranks so that we can win the 2023 general elections. “I want to let you know that the general public is watching us see how well we can manage our party. The Atona Odua of Yorubaland added, “I  want to appeal to all aggrieved members to go to the appeal panel. We have a window of about one week because all the names of our candidates must be submitted before the 3rd of June. I believe that the management of the party will do what is equitable. “We heard yesterday that some members are leaving the party. I want to appeal to them to rescind their decisions because there is no perfect party anywhere. It is not everything that you desire that you will get, you will win some and lose some,” he said. POLL While admonishing those who won during the primary elections to work with other members, he said,  “I would like those who are the flag bearers of our party to note that  it is no longer their names that they are carrying but the name of the party. They should work with everyone from the ward to state level. Alluding to the All Progressives Congress  (APC) which he alleged has mismanaged the resources of Lagos State, George said “We have the competence and the ability and we have the assets as well. There is no part of this country that does not have one asset or the other, we have to utilize the assets for the betterment of the citizens and not for personal benefit. “The resources of Lagos State cannot be appropriated by one individual, his children and cronies. People are hungry and so people are angry. The will of the people should guide the representatives of the people. The PDP leader charged the people to be united so that they will be victorious at the 2023 polls, stressing that if the PDP goes through the electronic system of election, it will win because the people of Lagos are tired of the APC.  “We must get rid of these loafers in Lagos,” he said. George commended the efforts of the party members who he said comported themselves in an orderly manner during the primary elections. “I want to express my profound gratitude to you for your conduct and for the love that you have for the party. None of us was able to forecast that the election would be peaceful, but we thank God because he took charge,” Speaking about the national convention slated for the 28th and 29th of May in Abuja, George urged the national delegates to ensure that the election is rancour-free. “The delegates that we have are 811 and I expect that we were going to have 5,000 delegates and so we know that with that number the process will not be cumbersome and I appeal to the delegates to ensure that the convention is rancour-free,” he said.