Ghanaian actress, Juliet Ibarahim has listed out some of the characteristics of low self esteem, while also dropping tips for her fans on how they can improve on themselves. Taking to her Instagram page, the actress urged those suffering from low self esteem not to be ashamed to reach out for help. She further listed some of the most common characteristics of low-self esteem to include depression and sadness, anxiety, moodiness, avoiding social situations, feelings of inadequacy as well as comparing onesself negatively to others. Other characteristics, she noted are difficulty accepting compliments, neglect of ones own needs, particularly emotional needs, low expectations, difficulty in making or maintaining relationships, concern over the impact they have on others by constantly seeking validation, difficulty in trusting one’s own judgement and a distorted view of oneself. -Advertisement- The actress also noted that an exaggerated negativity of thinking encourages any experiences people have had to be blown out of proportion, which stops them from trying again. ”Do you feel you have a low self esteem? What are you doing to improve your self esteem? You’ll need to go on a journey and discover yourself, who you are. Do not be ashamed to reach out to a therapist to get yourself back up! “Imagine all the amazing things you can become after you build back up your self esteem! You can be unstoppable! Both men and women have low self esteem issues. It is not gender-specific. The first step to healing is Self-Awareness. Accepting that you are aware you have a problem then you begin your process of healing is all you need to start your transformational Journey,” she wrote. A few weeks back, Ibrahim narrated how her former lover locked her up and sexually assaulteg her daily.In an interview with media personality, Chude Jideonwo, the actress narrated how her former boyfriend, whose name she didn’t expose, locked her up in his room till she was rescued by her sister. Ibrahim noted that when she confronted her ex-lover and told him that what he did was rape, the latter insisted that they were in a relationship.