ABUJA – Aggrieved Petroleum marketers have petitioned the Minister of State for Petroleum Resource, Timipre Sylvarevealing the discrepancies in the payment to some oil marketers by the Chief Executive OfficerMidstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority, Engr. Farouk Ahmed. The petition dated May 11th 2022 obtained by Daily Independent was signed by M.O Ihemtuge of Integrity Chambers on behalf of the marketers expressed displeasure over the selective payment. The petition alleged that over twenty two ( 22 ) marketers were  deliberately excluded from the payment scheduled for 28th, 29th and 30th April 2022 as against the rule that marketers within the same Batch should be paid together. -Advertisement- The marketers accused Chief  Farouk Ahmed of making fraudulent payment to only four marketers which includes A.A Rano Nigeria Ltd, A.Y Maikifi Oil & Gas Ltd., Danmarna Petroleum Ltd and A.Y.M Shafa Ltd. They also attributed the current fuel scarcity in the country on the divide and rule action of the regulatory authority. The aggrieved marketers appealed to the Minister to intervene as a matter of urgency and prevail on the relevant authorities to put an end to selective payment. The petition read in part “Our service has been retained by Mr. Ahmed Yusuf of AMFUL GLOBAL RESOURCES LTD. representing the Group of 22 marketers but a few amongst the affected ( hereinafter) referred to as “Our Clients” on whose instruction and information we verily believed to be the truth. “That on the 28th- 30th April 2022 the above mention were due for payment as listed in the Annexures ‘ A’. POLL “That it is the rule that marketers within the same Batch should be paid together and at the same time, but to our ultimate surprise and disappointment, Engr. Farouk Ahmed ( The Chief Executive Officer Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority) isolated and paid four ( 4 ) marketers whose names are ;  A.A Rano Nigeria Ltd,  A.Y Maikifi Oil & Gas Ltd., Danmarna Petroleum Ltd and  A.Y.M Shafa Ltd. “To our ultimate surprise and embarrassment other are denied and still being denied without and cogent reasons and without explanation but for his personal interest.” “Consequently, it is our clarion call to you sir to intervene and stop this act so presenting as fraud, as this has led to present state of fuel scarcity as transporter can no longer travel to bring fuel because of marketers’ huge amount hanging.”