Dr Ben Adeniyi, CEO of Univasa Limited, a multi-service platform that is providing a one-stop solution to the daily needs of Nigerians, explained to OLORUNDARE ENIMOLA, that the ‘verify and pay’ bar code pasted on Lagos Yellow Taxis is a technology operated by the company that is connected to a central data system for passengers to verify valid details of a driver, the vehicle and the owner before paying fares and boarding. Excerpts: What led to the creation of Univasa and particularly the online app for paying transport fares, what are you out to introduce, correct or improve in the online commuting payment system? Over the years, we noticed that the e-hailing industry is quite saturated, where drivers being the sole provider are tossed around by app owners with no concern for their welfare or concerns. -Advertisement- So, we decided to provide a platform for driver-partners to feel respected, their views aired and their welfare is accounted for with our various schemes; insurance, car loans etc. Our major mission as an organisation is to be an enabler for service providers and customers by developing digital solutions to fulfil their every need. We also hope to be fully operational in at least 10 major cities in Nigeria by the end of 2023 with at least a quarter of the market share in trips. Currently, we have launched in cities like Ibadan, Ilorin, Asaba, Port Harcourt, Edo, Lagos and Abuja; safe to say that we are getting there. Identify the unique features of the brand, unique technology, innovative edge, acceptability and adaptability of the brand by the motoring public. POLL Univasa service is much more than a ride-hailing application; it is a community for providers of skilled and vocational services. Such as delivery services, beauty and fitness, food, and grocery delivery among many others. This way we are actively offering end consumers one-stop for all things services and products, also providing a larger market for service providers to soar and flourish. Overall, Univasa is a very customer-centric brand; we develop innovative solutions to cater for the needs of the average user, bearing in mind affordability and accessibility for all our products/services. Lagos State is having issues with insecurity, where you hear cases of people being robbed in traffic hold ups both in private and commercial vehicles, while some are attacked for boarding some commercial which is commonly called ‘one chance’. How do you think this Internet of Things, IoT as you put it, is going to help in curbing these rising levels of crimes? Yeah, the Internet of things brings things together. By things, we mean nonliving things, okay. And a vehicle is of course one of the nonliving things that can be connected in an IoT space, how it can help in the transportation industry is to ensure that the commercial space in transportation embraces this technology, and should be in the interests of the governments, because they are there to make money. The government is also there to ensure security for the people. So, they will state clearly that for you to operate transportation as a service in Lagos state, you must show you have this device in your car or commercial vehicle as the case may be. Just like in some advanced countries, where if you have a building, a commercial or personal building that is facing a major expressway you are mandated to put a security camera that is connected to the central surveillance system. I want you to be more objective here. I want you to talk in terms of the real life situation in a state like Lagos, how do you apply it to the daily situation of the motoring public, especially as it affects their security? One of the sad things with one chance vehicles is that, people do not even know the vehicle they are boarding or entering into, they just board any available vehicle that comes their way. You cannot measure what you do not manage. To manage that, the starting point is to have every vehicle in a vehicle database across Lagos State. You start by managing the commercial vehicles and by managing them you can connect them together. You see somebody coming to report to police that they have been robbed. And the first question police ask is which vehicle? They will respond by saying well, I don’t know. What is the plate number? They don’t know anything about it. Nobody can trace it, even when eventually some smart people come up and say, Oh, I have a picture of the vehicle. This is the picture showing the plate number. The police enter this information and yet the owners are not in any data system. So how is this technology proposed by Univasa going to work in improving the level of security for those travelling or in traffic in a city like Lagos? It will get to a point when all of these things come into fruition, that before boarding a public vehicle in Lagos state, you will have to check if a bar code or a tag, UNIVASA verifier or IoT label is on it or whatever the government may eventually adopt. Without proof that the car has the barcode you will not enter because you know that the vehicle is not connected and it is not secure. “If you take me away from where I want to go to where I don’t want to go”, who is going to monitor you? There is no amount of grammar the driver will speak that will convince the passenger to enter the vehicle, why, because the passenger is now informed. This is where the government needs to come in, to also enforce compliance to this technology, especially by commercial vehicle operators”. So, Univasa as the name connotes, is an on demand service platform that brings together service providers and their respective users, including; ride hailing providers, which are the drivers, delivery providers, bike riders and those in the logistics business. On the app we also have the artisans, the mechanics, the plumbers, electricians and beauticians also provide service for their respective customers. It’s just that the ride hailing is the loudest. That’s why people take UNIVASA to be only a ride hailing platform. Tell us more about this bar code that you said would not only guarantee the security of passengers, but also guarantee the profitability of the drivers and vehicle owners. Addressing security issues, we have developed the “Verify and Pay” scheme, where we onboard drivers, save their details and paste barcodes on their vehicles. This way, a rider can scan the barcode on the vehicle to vet the driver’s details before boarding. The bar codes pasted on vehicles is therefore the means by which a rider can verify all valid details of a driver, the vehicle and the owner before making payment for the fares and boarding. If adopted by the government, it would further help to regulate the transportation industry, as it will serve as a database for registered e-hailing and non-e-hailing drivers within the state/ country and provide a means to check their activities. I would also like to add that, verify and pay is both a security and payment platform. So not only would the government be able to regulate transport workers activities it can also serve as a tax collection system. What are the peculiar challenges faced in your day to day operations, and what are you doing to mitigate or eradicate them? It is quite common for Nigerians to take longer to embrace made in Nigeria brands/companies and as a fully owned Nigerian brand, we also have our fair share of this limitation. We have users being more skeptical about trusting the brand and being receptive to our services. But, having been around for well over two years, I can say that we are sure to build a name for ourselves in the ride hailing and tech industry with our innovative services and most especially putting our customers; be it the driver-partners, clients or users first always. We are consistent with our offerings of valuable services with affordability at the helm of our affairs and we are positive that Univasa can only be much better and soon enough would become a household name among Nigerians. In your own assessment, do you think the commuting public has fully embraced the app payment system, what steps should be taken to improve level acceptability and usage? The innovation of e-hailing to the Nigerian transportation industry is a good start towards a technology conscious society for the country. However, there is still more that can be done. E-hailing apps are wired to be reliable, convenient and secure, however not all app owners are conscious enough to check all these boxes. We at Univasa consciously take into consideration each of these parameters and we strive to tick all the boxes. For affordability of service, we offer the most affordable prices to riders, low surge prices and we also maintain a low commission sharing percentage at 90-10% with the drivers.