(2 Timothy 3) In the beginning of creation, God bequeathed to mankind a world of perfection and peace where humans are expected to love harmony with each other and animals. Fast forward to the present world of today, it is a complete contrast to the initial plan of God. We see a world plunged in utter chaos, crime, turmoil etc. The reason for these transformations is however not far-fetched. In fact, it is in fulfilment of the scriptures that as creation grows nears its dying days, the world would be thrown into stark peril (2 Timothy 3:1). It went further to give an apt description of the evil to be perpetrated by mankind. Let’s take a look at the unprecedented height of immorality in the society today, incest between relatives, legalization of homosexuality and abortion in many countries, traitors, persecutors, despisers etc. Flagrant disobedience by children to parents and constituted authorities, increase rate of cultism amongst the younger generation, abuse of drugs, alcohol and all manner of addiction, blasphemers of the church of God, and that which saddens me most is the recent spate of money ritual going rife among the youth of today. Every single of these variables are perfect fulfilment of the scriptures and indications that the world is heading towards twilight. We have to be reminded that no one is immune to the sin and the peril of the last days because we are all offspring and descendants of the first man who by virtue of their disobedience in the Garden of Eden have passed that seed of sin and wickedness down through generation. The only one true way we can be free and insulated from these evils is through Jesus Christ who was conceived not by man but by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. It is pertinent to make that decision to ensure your safety here in the world and assurance of a Joyous eternity with the Lord. There is basically no fun and reward in a life of sin, it breeds only guilt, death and eternal anguish (Ezekiel 18:20). Would you rather continue in sin, living with the guilt it brings? Losing your eternal happiness or embrace salvation and enjoy peace of mind, safety in the Lord and ultimately fellowship with Our Lord in eternity? Christ died for our sins (1st Corinthians 15:3) His blood was shed for our sake (Matthew 26:28). He is the only way known to man to escape the dangers of this present world and a place in glorious eternity. Won’t you rather do the needful now? Go on your knees and bare all to Christ, repent of your sins. (Act 3:19) Be committed to your decision and you shall continue to have victory, peace of mind and joy of a place in heavenly eternity. Peace be with you.