 President Muhammadu Buhari has on Friday commissioned 76 hous­ing units in Gombe town, Gombe State. The Housing Estate, which is located at West­ern Bye – Pass, Gombe, was built under the National Housing Pro­gramme (NHP) and it comprises of 48 units of 2 bedroom, 24 units of 3 bedroom and 4 units of 1bedroon bungalows. -Advertisement- President Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Communica­tions and Digital Econo­my, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim said that the completion and commissioning of the Housing Estate was in line with his promises during his presidential campaigns. Mr. Stephen Kilebi, Deputy Director Press and Public Relations Unit in a statement on Friday stated that the in­frastructure in the Hous­ing Estate include “well laid out internal roads and drainages, a central borehole with overhead tanks to guarantee con­stant supply of water for the residents and provi­sion of electricity.” President Buhari also revealed that his admin­istration has been able to redeem the unfulfilled promises made by past administrations 28 years ago to provide houses for each member of the Super Eagles who per­formed gallantly at the African Cup of Nations in 1994, adding that the fulfilment was better late than never. The President added that Super Eagles were given the privilege to in­dicate where each would want the house to be built, while some want­ed it in their villages, others wanted it where they lived and he has ap­proved that the allocation should be made based on their choices of location, noting that even the de­ceased among them were not left out in the alloca­tion. He commended Gombe State Government for al­locating the land to the Federal Government without collecting fee to enable his administra­tion provide affordable housing units for Nige­rians. POLL Speaking earlier, the Governor of Gombe State, Muhammed Inu­wa Yahaya represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Manasseh Jato, com­mended the Federal Gov­ernment for providing houses to the residents of Gombe State to cush­ion the effect of its over­stretched houses. He said that Gombe State being a peaceful state has attracted influx of foreigners to settle in it and this has over­stretched the housing fa­cilities available. Jato assured the Fed­eral Government that Gombe State would be willing to support the Federal Government in actualising the laudable policy in the state and the country. In his remark at the event, Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Baba­tunde Fashola,SAN, who was represented by the Zonal Director, Nation­al Housing Programme, North East Federal Min­istry of Works and Hous­ing, Arc. Usman Bashir, said that a similar project was replicated in 34 states of the federation in line with the administration’s pledge to ensure adequate housing for Nigerians.