AKURE – In a move for smooth and timely take-off Federal University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Akure (FUTTHA), Ondo State, the Deji and paramount ruler of Akure Kingdom, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi on Saturday assembled some sons and daughters of the kingdom to deliberate on how the could support the project. He sought the support of all personalities in the kingdom both within the country and in the diaspora to join hands with the university authority towards the development of the teaching hospital. Addressing the attendees in a closed-door meeting in his palace, the Chairman of Ondo State Council of Obas briefed them on efforts of the committee he constituted to mobilise personalities from the kingdom to contributed to the construction of buildings and other facilities in the teaching hospital site. -Advertisement- He, therefore, appealed to them to see the project as Akure’s mission that must be accomplished by contributing maximally to the take-off of the teaching hospital. It would be recalled that the National Universities Commission(NUC) last year approved commencement of admission into the full-time mode of the Medicine and Surgery, MBBS programme, with effect from the 2020/2021 academic session in FUTA. Oba Aladetoyinbo said: “I am again making a clarion call to all the indigenes of Akure-speaking communities as well as non-indigenes to brace up for the contribution towards the take-off of the FUTA Teaching Hospital. “We’ve started this in conjunction with FUTA, we cannot afford to relent now until the project is fully realized. “Let me assure you that generations to come will have access to this document and I am confident that posterity will be kind to you. Everyone will have the opportunity to be part of it irrespective of your financial or social status.” POLL Speaking on the forthcoming general elections, Oba Aladetoyinbo appealed to all politicians in the state to play the game according to the rules guiding it, adding that they should avoid any firm of violence. He said: “I am happy that I called you and you responded by attending this important meeting. The essence of this meeting is to appeal to you all to see yourselves as one big family. You must eschew violence in the forthcoming primaries of your political parties. “Akure does not want violence this time and if you know that you are contesting to contribute your quota to the development of the people, it must not be ‘a do or die’ affair for you. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of the Mobilisation Sub-committee of Community Central Planning Community(CCPC)on FUTA Teaching Hospital, Dr Tayo Olujuyigbe, appreciated the Monarch for coming up with the initiative of mobilizing support for the institution. He disclosed that his committee had been moving around all the benefiting communities seeking their cooperation and contribution towards the project, noting that the committee would soon come up with a building to be presented to FUTA as the contribution of the benefiting communities towards the take-off of the Teaching Hospital. In his response, the Minister of State, Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Tayo Alasoadura, described the establishment of the Teaching Hospital as a good development, urging the committee carry along everyone who contributed to the establishment of the project. He, therefore, pledged the support of politicians to the smooth take-off of the project. Meanwhile, the Mobilisation Committee had earlier visited His Royal Highness, Oba Abiodun Aderemi Adefehinti, the Alara of Ilara-Mokin and other prominent indigenes of the town, seeking their support for the project.