IBADAN – Against the backdrop of the recommendation made by the legal luminary, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), that an interim government should take place for six months, the Living Perfect Master, Satguru Maharaj Ji, has called on the Federal Government to institute Divine Government of love, peace, harmony, justice, equity, fair play and oneness. Also, the Afenifere Group asked for a unitary government without giving any definitions that will be quite different from the present unitary government, where it will appear that most of the funds are being siphoned into private pockets, therefore creating a feudal state to fuel agitations all over the place. This was contained in a press release made available by One Love Divine Minister for Information, Ojo Mogbadewa on Friday. -Advertisement- According to him, “the legal luminary, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), has recommended that an interim government should take place for six months. This we feel will be extraordinarily difficult because that would mean it has to be established by the same members of parliament, the Senate who have failed in all respect to win the hearts of Nigerians for following the wrong way of amending the constitution to end the political turmoil that is going on. “We will overcome all these vestiges of greed, hatred, avarice, acrimony when we embrace The Great Light – Satguru Maharaj Ji. Because, we have seen that our problem is spiritual. The only way to find a panacea is by embracing the Light of Creation. The Satguru Maharaj Ji has the temerity, audacity to reinvigorate the people and empower everyone who receives Divine Knowledge to overcome every tribulation/temptation. “This is the time we have seen that we cannot do it on our own. The Nigerian political terrain has been tremendously traumatized by unrivalled unemployment, power failure, killings by herdsmen, kidnapping by unknown gunmen, armed robbery, rape, arson, mayhem and the devaluation of the naira rendering our socio-economic wellbeing stagnant and unattractive. “The best brains that constitute the human resources as our workforce are out of the country seeking greener pastures. Some have died while crossing the desert to Libya or bathing dead bodies overseas in order to amass wealth. We have bastardized our customs, culture and tradition. We must go back to our tradition. We go back to our roots. “This is the time. The divine time when the Father of Creation, will institute a “Divine Government” of love based on love, peace, harmony, justice, equity, fair play and oneness – One nation, One bond, One indivisible, Indissoluble country Nigeria. POLL “We would like to urge all the leaders and the led (I mean all Nigerians) to kindly consider the formation of Divine Government to be run by people in Divine Knowledge because from the way things are now, stealocracy has become the norm where tribalism, ethnic and religious consideration has become the albatross of those around the Government recycling fraudulent people in the corridors of power. “While Diezani, Ibori, Lucky Igbinedion, etc. have been found guilty and dealt with, many others who have been fingered in one form of scandals and money laundering are still walking tall and are even preparing again to vie for political positions. “Remember a former Senate President who was fingered in Panama deals is still walking around hale and hearty and even involved in political gimmicking because from what he says in private circles that nobody can touch a Fulani kingpin like him. “Again what is the percentage given to Alhaji Malami for wanting Nigeria to pay a whopping billion dollars consultancy fees, which the State Governors wholly reject but our enveloped press have kept mum and gradually killing this case without further comments for fear of losing their jobs or the patronage of AGF.   Igba wo ni maku oni ku.? “The INEC Chairman was alleged to have paid Malami and other unnamed officers the sum of N3billion in order to retain him as the Chairman to rig elections for some group of people who wish to be recycled permanently in office “Also, it is being alleged that the wife of Mr President Aisha Buhari has been offered some shares in Air Peace in a meeting that took place in Dubai sometime last year in order to protect the Airline which was created with money swindled from NDDC years ago from Government investigation and possible takeover and for which many lives have been lost and the area filled with destitution devastation and destruction. “Another allegation is the fact that the Accounts and business of a leading philanthropist Czar in the Niger Delta who was discharged and acquitted for spurious charges against him recently is being shared among Mallami, The Attorney General, El-Rufai and other members of the Arewa Consultative Forum, that is why after months of discharge, his company accounts are still not being returned to him in order to create disorder among the staff and could lead to increase in banditry. “It is also being alleged the Afrojet Airlines Ltd. is being shared between the duo of Malami the Attorney General and the Minister of Transport, Mr. Amaechi in order to become members of the Board of Dana Air and to use part of the funds to build one of the biggest supermarkets in Dubai. “The Dana Air MD has boasted privately and publicly on top of physical threats to eliminate the MD of the company inspite of court judgements in favor of the company, in order to punish the management and staff because the company is owned by Igbos and Kafiris. “Where is the Czar of anti-corruption of Africa? “The President should not forget that it was some of the people who are planning to take over again who immediately moved almost the cash in circulation to cripple the new Government but out of Grace the Government of Buhari survived; so for continuity sake the President must make sure that only sincere, patriotic men and women free from tribal, religious and ethnic tendencies and have the spirit of anti-corruption should be allowed to come in. “The President should invite me to give him Divine Knowledge in order to recover his good health be strong again and be able to initiate Divine Government to save Nigeria and Nigerians the hope of the black race in the global world from being sapped to death by neo-colonialist and unpatriotic elements who don’t believe this world is not a place for rehearsal and intellectual excitements but a place for practical solutions to enhance the beauty of life, Knowledge, and Power. We need Divine Government now,” Maharaj Ji declared.