The Chairman, College of Insurance Supervisors of the West African Monetary Zone (CISWAMZ), Mr Agboola Pius, has stated that the College was established due to the special nature of Insurance and the fact that it is a business in the financial sector which entails that it is highly regulated in the jurisdiction of operation. Also for the College to complement and implement the ideas, projects and directives of the parent body, West African Insurance Supervisors Association (WAISA). Speaking during the 2nd meeting of the college in Abuja recently, Mr Agboola noted that the coming together of the Member States of the College would afford them the opportunity to know one another, interact together and harmonise some thoughts of the present and future scope of operation and activities of the College. -Advertisement- The college chair who stated that the desire to establish the College of Insurance Supervisors of the West African Monetary Zone dated back many years ago expressed delight that the initiative had finally seen the light of the day under the leadership of Mr. Olorundare Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance, Nigeria and Chairman of the West African Insurance Supervisors Association (WAISA). He applauded the role played by the Secretariat of West African Monetary Institute (WAMI) in harmonizing the idea and perfecting the set-up of the College. Speaking further, he said. “Insurance business evolved through the desire of entrepreneur to curtail the negative effects of the risk materializing. Hence, that is why Insurance is regarded as a risk transfer mechanism, a business that exists to ensure the survival of other businesses. “The entrepreneur who establishes an Insurance business or Company may choose to stay small, serving the local markets. Alternatively, the companies may not have the options to stay small as there are so many other factors that could make each company to expand and go beyond the shores of the jurisdictions and these factors can be categorized into; push or pull factors. Push factors include; Risk diversification; Declining opportunities in the home jurisdiction, and the need for consolidations, etc. POLL Pull factors include; The need to follow their clients abroad which is common in the oil and gas sector; Expected benefits (i.e. large profit margin); Available unutilized potentials, etc. The special nature of Insurance and the fact that it is a business in the financial sector entails that it is highly regulated in the jurisdiction of operation. As the business expands beyond the jurisdiction of establishment or operation, the need for bi-regional or multi-regional co-operation and/or understanding grew. Hence, the need for this regional integration called College of Insurance Supervisors of the West African Monetary Zone. The College is also established to complement and implement the ideas, projects and directives of the parent body – WAISA.”