AKURE – A 17-year-old boy, Mohammed Jamiu, has been allegedly stabbed to death by Biodun Abayomi, mother of a year old girl. The 20-year-old mother, when paraded by at Ondo State Police Command headquarters on Tuesday, said she was arrested by police for allegedly killing Mohammed Jamiu. According to the police sit rep, the suspect allegedly committed the offence on May 28, 2022 at Ebute area of Okitipupa, headquarters of Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state. -Advertisement- Narrating to newsmen how the incident happened, Biodun disclosed that she was attacked by the deceased and his other three friends. She said she went to fetch water from the stream when the deceased and his friends accosted and started flogging her because she had prevented one of her friends from dating the deceased. Biodun escaped from them and ran home to get armed, but her attackers took to their heels thinking she had gone to invite soldiers. According to Biodun, “On Saturday I went to the river to fetch water. At the riverside, I saw four boys and three girls fighting. “The girls were Hausa, and I spoke to them in Hausa Language that they should leave those boys. After the girls left, the boys came to meet me that they have been monitoring me all this while. POLL “I told them that I no longer have nothing against them and that when I had issue with them was when I was pregnant, and after I gave birth, I have let them be. “They insisted that no, I should go and call my soldiers, that they are now ready for the case and that they will fight me. “One of them (Jamiu) approached me and hit me with a stick. After beating me with the stick, I rushed home to pick a knife and I returned to the riverbank. But on getting there, they went to hide. It was when I was trying to take my bucket of water that they came back again. They started beating again and it was at that point that I stabbed him. “I had wanted to stab him on his hand but I mistakenly stabbed him on the neck. The other boys ran away and the boy and I stayed there. The boy was rushed to the hospital by some people in the area and I was advised to run away but I refused to run away that I did not kill someone. “It was later that policemen came to arrest me that I have killed someone. They beat me before they took me away. I insisted that I didn’t kill anybody. “It was when I got to station that I saw the mother of the boy crying that I had killed her son. But I begged her. “He had earlier threatened to deal with me when I was pregnant that he will deal with me because he thought I was the one who prevented my friend from dating him “I have lost both my father and mother and my husband ran away when I was arrested. My child just clocked one year.”