LAGOS  – Operatives of the Lagos State Taskforce has said it has ar­rested a suspected serial im­poster and Okada thief who specialised in snatching mo­torcycles and impersonating officials of the agency with his camouflage trousers and wallet in order to dispossess unsuspecting okada riders of their bikes and valuables in different parts of the state. The suspect, Elias Marcus, 33, a father of one was arrested while he was trying to carry out his usual act of imperson­ating an official and stealing the bike of a rider. The victim said Yahaya Us­man, 19, the suspect, flagged him down on bike around Ma­foluku asking him to take him to the inner parts of Oshodi. On getting to the destination, the suspect asked the rider to divert to a different location where he pushed him off the bike and sped off with it. -Advertisement- “We got to our destination and before I knew what was happening I found myself on the ground after I had been pushed by the suspect. I knew he wanted to steal the bike. He rode off with the bike and I chased him till I caught up with him and struggled with him till officers of the Task­force came to my rescue and arrested him,” Yahaya nar­rated. The suspect confessed to being into the illicit trade of impersonating military and para-millitary officers because it gives him free access on the roads and also some privileges across the country. “I have always wanted to be a force man but when I could not become one I de­cided to impersonate. It gives me clearance and commands respect for me in some in­stances; that’s why I delved into the business of stealing under false pretence. My wife does not know I am into such a business,” he stated. Speaking on the incident at the Headquarters of The La­gos State Taskforce, the Chair­man of the Agency, CSP Shola Jejeloye, said that he had given his officers express directives to arrest and prosecute anyone impersonating officials of the agency and tarnishing the im­age of the Agency. “We have made series of arrest in months because the reports of fake Taskforce personnel we receive are wor­risome. We will carry on with this mop up exercise till every single fake official is arrested and taken to court. This will serve as a deterrent to others who might be nursing the idea of impersonation,” Jejeloye stated. POLL The agency’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, Gbadeyan Abdulraheem, in a signed statement also said that the suspected impostor has been charged to court ac­cordingly. “He pleaded not guilty and the case had been adjourned to May 26, 2022. He has been remanded at the Badagry Correctional Centre,” he said. In a related development, Officials of the Lagos State Taskforce have also arrested a commercial driver who bit the finger of an official of the agency during his arrest and impoundment of his vehicle for driving against traffic (One-way) Along Oshodi-Apapa Ex­pressway. The suspect, Osinachi Ndukwe, 32, drove against traf­fic from Oshodi down to Ayoni Bus stop along that route to beat traffic which was as result of the road construction going on in that axis.