BENIN – Chief Lucky Imasuen, All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial aspirant for Edo South Senatorial District on Wednesday declared that he would advocate for state police to curb herdsmen activities in the various communities in the 36 states of the federation. Imasuen, former deputy governor of Edo state who made the declaration while addressing the party’s delegates in Benin said fears have gripped the people of Ovia Communities due to the activities of herdsmen and that they can no longer go to their farms for farming activities. “If I am elected your senator, I will direct the attention of the entire senators about this insecurity situation in Edo State. How? By constantly, pushing for state police in the Senate. -Advertisement- “People don’t go to their farms in Ovia Communities anymore. “They have taken over our farmlands. Those days, when we were growing up in Ogbese, there were mangoes, but today, people can no longer go to the forest because of the fear of these hoodlums”, he said. The former deputy governor of the state under Osarieme Osunbor, said one of the ways to checkmate the excesses of herdsmen in our various communities, state police are the answer. “I know some people may disagree with me, I will join my voice with those who will advocate for community and state police. “Yes, I very much agree with some people who have the fear that some uncivilized governors may use it to oppress the citizens but if you don’t start a process you will not start finding solutions to the problem that the process will bring. POLL “Why not set up a commission, make it a law, set up a body that will police the activities of the police, maybe through election members will be appointed there, or they can be appointed for four or five years,” he said. Imasuen also said that with his wealth of experiences in politics and as a former deputy governor of the state, he will liaise with other senators to bring meaningful development to the state through lobbies. He said he is seeking the Edo South Senatorial seat because he believes he has what it takes as a vibrant politician to represent them at the Senate and deliver the dividends of democracy He, however, called on the state delegates of the party to ensure the election of a credible candidate that would secure victory for the party in next year’s general election.