LAGOS – The National Directorate of Employment (NDE), has opened a five-day training programme for more 130 women in Lagos State in production of organic products, perfumery, tie-dye and event planning and management. The training was part of efforts by the Federal Government to reduce unemployment, and help participants become stakeholders in the nation’s fashion industry. Declaring the skills acquisition training for women in organic products, stone/bead making, perfumery, tie and dye, under the Women Employment Branch (WEB) of the Small Scale Enterprises, Malam Abubakar Nuhu, the NDE Director-General, said training women in trends in the fashion industry was also aimed at creating wealth, and generating employment opportunities for them. -Advertisement- Fikpo, who was represented by Mrs, Serena Olayebi Edward, the Lagos State Coordinator, said the NDE was created with the mandate to create employment opportunities, especially in the informal sector of the economy for the unemployed in Nigeria, thereby reducing poverty and promoting stability. He noted that in recent times, the directorate had trained women in the production of wigs, turbans, decorative paint making, and oriental carpets, and that the latest programme started the training of women in natural organic products, stone/bead making, perfumery, as well as tie and dye. He disclosed that the training seeks to remedy the social imbalance particularly skills gap among unemployed women in Delta State, urging the beneficiaries to take it seriously, stressing that it would equip them with the skills to become self-reliant and future employers of labour. Counseling the participants, Olayeyi-Edward, stressed that the programme was aimed at helping women acquire skills to enable them increase their income-generating activities, adding that that, “Our major objective is to improve socio-economic status of women, reduce poverty and create wealth.” She said that the programme would make the women less dependent on their husbands financially. POLL The Lagos State NDE coordinator advised the women to take the opportunity seriously and acquire life-changing skills that could change their economic situation. Also speaking at the event, Mr. Christian Kalin, a consultant to NDE from Switzerland, praised the industry and entrepreneurship spirit of Nigerian women.