Danjuma left English football behind when he switched Bournemouth for Villarreal last summer. The step up from the Championship to La Liga has been easy for the Dutchman. In his debut season in Spain, he provided 16 goals from 34 games. Therefore, he has quickly been linked with the next step in his career. If he is to return to England one day, it would be as a Premier League player. In that regard, Liverpool and Newcastle have been mentioned as potential admirers. But there could be the chance for Manchester United to get involved. -Advertisement- A report from the Manchester Evening News reminds that Danjuma was on United’s radar last summer. However, it was only ever as a backup idea to Jadon Sancho, whom they finally managed to sign from Borussia Dortmund. Now, though, they could be back in the market for Danjuma after being aware of his progress in the Spanish top division. There is a €45million release clause in the 25-year-old’s contract. Equating to around £38.3m, it is an appealing price for a player entering the prime of his career. That said, the MEN admit it is unlikely Man Utd will move for Danjuma this summer. They feel well-stocked on the left-hand side of attack and are more likely to strengthen on the opposite flank. This season, Danjuma has generally switched between a left-wing and centre-forward role. As such, United may prefer someone who operates in other territories. POLL However, they should give serious thought to bidding for Danjuma. Although Sancho has played on the left wing a lot this season, he could shift over to the opposite side. That would allow someone else to take the left-wing spot, battling with the likes of Marcus Rashford and Anthony Elanga. The chance to sign Danjuma for a relatively modest clause should not be ignored too. United could end up suffering by seeing him thrive elsewhere – potentially against them. There should be some intriguing changes as the Erik ten Hag era begins at Old Trafford. Only time will tell whether the integration of Danjuma could be one of them.