ABAKALIKI – Founding members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State have called on the national leadership of the Party to ensure that direct primaries were conducted for Aspirants in Ebonyi State. According to them, only a direct primary where the aspirants would test their popularity could restore the confidence of APC members in the party’s candidates. Briefing journalists in Abakaliki on Wednesday, Alhaji Haroun Aja, accompanied by the pioneer Chairman of APC in the State, Mr Ben Nwaobasi, and other party stalwarts of the Party, accused Governor David Umahi of plots to impose Candidates on the party ahead of 2023 general elections in the State. -Advertisement- In a statement titled “How Governor Umahi is killing APC in Ebonyi State”, which was read by Mr Aja, they further accused Governor Umahi of making deliberate efforts to destroy the APC in Ebonyi State, alleging that the Governor had continued to push out foundation members from the APC in the State. “Evidence of this discrimination against legacy members of APC in the state is the recent national convention of the party where the governor singlehandedly, without consultation imposed the three slots zoned to Ebonyi State on the party. “Without respecting the need for harmonization and integration, the governor continues to deploy the handful of persons he brought into APC in virtually all positions at the expense of old members that he met in the party. “Governor Umahi is pursuing that narrow agenda by preventing original APC members from aspiring to any elective positions. He does not consult stakeholders before making decisions that affect the party. He made sure that the few PDP members he brought into APC made up 95% of all the Local Government and Ward Executives of the party in the state. “For instance, currently, the man he has anointed as APC gubernatorial candidate is an embattled speaker who has not defected to the party, the three senatorial seats, four House of Representatives, and twenty-four House of Assembly seats are all reserved for Governor Umahi for PDP members who returned with him. POLL “We have been trying to make the governor see reasons and imbibe democratic ethos in the running of APC in Ebonyi State, but Governor Umahi has continued to shun entreaties to follow the path of civility and fairness. “The situation in Ebonyi State APC is that while the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is bubbling with activities in readiness for the election, APC is in near-comatose as genuine members have been rendered docile out of fear and dread for the governor’s highhandedness. “While there are over 12 governorship aspirants in PDP and between 2 and 3 contestants in every constituency, APC has only four governorship aspirants against the nine we had in 2019. This further shows how the party in Ebonyi has shrunk under the leadership of Governor Umahi. Yet the governor ordered the governorship aspirants to reach out to the party executives, insisting that the aspirants can only get to the executives at their individual constituencies. “In the light of these obvious efforts by the governor to impose his preferred candidate on Ebonyi State APC, we use this opportunity to plead with our national leaders to ensure that direct primaries are organised for aspirants in the state. “We believe that only a direct primary where the aspirants would test their popularity could restore the confidence of APC members in the party’s candidates and not the choice of one man who wants to pitch Ebonyi APC against the people”, they stated. They further called on the national leadership of APC to come to the rescue of the Party in Ebonyi to avoid a repeat of 2019 Zamfara and Rivers States experience. “We have decided to cry out to the national leadership of APC not only to save our souls but avoid a repeat of Zamfara and Rivers States experience in 2019 when the entire candidates of the party were swept away by the court. “The following instances are readily evidenced that Governor Umahi wants to plunge Ebonyi State APC into instant death by his actions: One, the governor’s endorsement of Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru as the APC gubernatorial candidate without listening to the views of stakeholders and the wishes of the people. “Secondly, the ongoing attempts to smuggle the names of 16 members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly into the membership register a few days after purchasing expression of interest and nominations for them,” they added. Reacting, Governor Umahi denied that old APC members in the State were being marginalized. Umahi had in a statement by his spokesman, Mr Francis Nwaze, said, “the Umahi’s administration most especially since a switch to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has been running an open-door government that is highly dependent on inputs from Party Stakeholders, old members, not an exception, to thrive. “The old APC members in the State can not be said to be sidelined when some of them are strategically integrated into the running of the business of the State. Umahi’s administration is not about reneging in carrying all Stakeholders and Party Stalwarts along in the scheme of things, and so, anyone who feels not adequately integrated always has the opportunity to align in as much as he/she is disposed to working with the Government and in the interest of Ebonyi people.”