DAMATURU – The former Executive Governor of Yobe State and Senator representing Yobe East Senatorial District, Senator (Dr.) Ibrahim Gaidam (Bra – Bra) has submitted his filled Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms for his re-election bid in 2023 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The forms were returned on behalf of the Senator Gaidam by the APC National Vice Chairman North East, Comrade Mustapha Salihu at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, accompanied by party stalwarts, officials and political associates. Recall that both the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms were earlier presented to Senator Gaidam by his successor, Governor Mai Mala Buni in support of his re-election for second term in the 2023 senatorial election. -Advertisement- Speaking with newsmen today after submitting the nomination forms on behalf of Senator Gaidam, the APC National Vice Chairman North East, Comrade Mustapha Salihu said Gaidam has made a lots of contribution to the development of Yobe state as governor. He thanked Governor Buni and the Yobe stakeholders for all the support and encouragement for Senator Gaidam ahead of the 2023 general elections. He said: “We thanked Governor Mai Mala Buni and the Yobe Stakeholders for all the support and encouragement to Senator Ibrahim Gaidam. Yobe is a good example of the APC one political family”. He also dismissed threat of any opposition party in the state as Yobe is a stronghold and home for the governing APC. He said: “Yobe is a stronghold and home for the APC. The opposition political party especially the PDP exists only in name. The APC is solidly on ground and its always ready for any campaigns to deliver. “The Governor Mai Mala Buni’s administration has carried along members of the APC as one political family and has transformed the state over the last three years. The people of Yobe are grateful for what he has done so far with meagre resources. Apart from the developmental projects, Buni has made Yobe proud for the achievements he recorded in repositioning the APC as Chairman of the Caretaker Committee”. POLL The APC National Vice Chairman, North East, was accompanied by Hon. Lawan Shettima Ali, Hon. Ibrahim Umar, Hon. Bala Ajeje, Sen Lawan Jalo Zarami, Alh. Kuwata Goni amongstothers.