UMUAHIA – Sam Ohuabunwa, a Peo­ple’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential as­pirant, has attributed money politics that is currently playing out ahead of the party’s presidential convention as bane of the under-development of the country. Speaking to journalists in Umuahia at the weekend af­ter meeting with some party stakeholders, Ohuabunwa said blame should go to the national delegates of the party for any mistake of not electing a credi­ble candidate for the 2023 presi­dential election. Daily Independent recalled that Ohuabunwa’s visit and meeting with some stakehold­ers of the party coincided with that of another presidential as­pirant of the party and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, who also was in the state to meet with party delegates and stake­holders. -Advertisement- “I am not worried about money bags in politics. Nigeri­ans have reached a level to dif­ferentiate between what is good for them. We know that money plays a role in politics, Nigerians have suffered enough. God has allowed us to pass where we are to see that money is not the only solution. “Nigerians are becoming wiser, like the man that came here today (Last Friday), I am sure that the people that went to see him may have collected but I do not think that people who have the right sense would vote him as President unless you wish this country to move from already autocratic nation to a country whose people will be under bondage.” He further explained that while he is spending from his private fund, “Others are spend­ing from security votes. “I am not worried about how they are spending the money. The money is not their own, it is government money, but one thing is that Ni­gerians are becoming slightly wiser, that is my thinking. “Money will not play all roles, logistics is essential but not the way money is being used in this country, to bribe to vote for them. I will not bribe anybody to vote for me. I will preach to you and allow you and your conscience to make that decision because I am not coming to seek any­thing for myself. I am coming to sacrifice my time, my comfort, my resources for the good of my country. So, I need not bribe anybody to make that sacrifice except I am looking for another thing”, he disclosed.