Kylian Mbappe will announce his final decision over whether to leave Paris Saint-Germain ahead of next season by the end of June, according to reports. The Frenchman has been heavily linked with a move to Real Madrid on a free transfer since the beginning of the campaign, while Liverpool have also been credited with a long-standing interest in his services over the last few years. Mbappe will be out of contract at the end of the season as things stand and is yet to commit his long-term future to PSG in spite of the club’s best efforts to extend his stay at the Parc des Princes. A decision is finally expected to be made over the next few weeks, though, with the 23-year-old set to reveal whether or not he will sign a new deal in Paris before the end of June, according to Le Parisien. It is claimed that an official announcement over Mbappe’s future is highly unlikely to be made before PSG’s final outing of the season against Metz later this month. Although it has not been ruled out that Mbappe could reveal his next club in the immediate aftermath of the game, he is thought to be keen on waiting until June to make his feelings known to the public. -Advertisement- Other reports have claimed that PSG are doing everything in their power to keep hold of Mbappe for the foreseeable future, with a significant amount of progress having been made in talks over the last few months. French media outlets suggested earlier this week that a new two-year deal has already been agreed in principle, but the player’s mother, Fayza Lamari, quickly poured cold water on the rumours with a statement on Thursday evening. “There is no agreement in principle with Paris Saint-Germain (or any other club),” she wrote on Twitter. “Discussions around Kylian’s future are continuing in a climate of great serenity to allow him to make the best choice, with respect for all parties.” Real Madrid are known to be huge admirers of Mbappe and reportedly saw a nine-figure bid for the Paris native rejected by PSG just hours before last summer’s transfer deadline. It remains to be seen whether they will eventually be forced to look elsewhere in order to reinforce their attacking ranks if Mbappe decides to extend his stay at his current club for at least another two years. He has chipped in with 35 goals in all competitions for PSG this season and has firmly established himself as one of the best players in the world since bursting onto the scene as a young gun with Monaco back in 2016. The forward refused to rule out the possibility of staying at PSG when quizzed on his future last month but insisted that he was yet to make a final decision on whether or not to leave the club ahead of next season. “I haven’t made my choice on the future, everyone knows that,” Mbappe told Amazon Prime Video. “I’m thinking, there are new elements and a lot of parameters. If I had made my decision, I would’ve announced it. POLL “Is it possible to stay at PSG? Yes, of course. There is no need to talk a lot, there are new elements that I will consider for my future. It’s not an easy decision, my family will help me. I don’t want to make any mistake, my choice hasn’t been made, the whole world knows that.”