SYLVESTER ENOGHASE When Development Bank of Nigeria Plc (DBN), within the last quarter of 2021, was awarded a level 5 rating, the highest possible rating in the Sustainability Standards Certification Initiative (SSCI) Project, no one was taken by surprise as it was predictable and obvious that the bank deserves the award. The reason for the foregoing optimistic view held by not a few people about the bank cannot be farfetched as the bank has overtime, under the leadership of Mr. Tony Okpanachi, its Managing Director, remained unrelenting with his supporting team working round the clock in the bid to meet the objective to which the bank was established. -Advertisement- Going by opinion held by experts, the objective which is aimed at alleviating financing constraints faced by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nigeria through the provision of financing and partial credit guarantees to eligible financial intermediaries on a market-conforming and fully financially sustainable basis is resiliently been pursued by Okpanachi and his team. As widely known by finance experts, the SSCI has become the reference programme for institutions that intend to take issues of sustainability initiatives seriously. Since aligning with the provisions of the SSCI, DBN has been able to drive a deeper understanding of its already established mandate of serving society, providing financial viability, and environmental sustainability within its operations. To dispassionately appraise how DBN under the leadership of Mr. Tony Okpanachi is funding the MSMEs, it is expedient to cite an overview of MSMEs by the World Bank in this context. According to the global apex bank, “Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) play a major role in most economies, particularly in developing countries. POLL SMEs account for the majority of businesses worldwide and are important contributors to job creation and global economic development. They represent about 90% of businesses and more than 50% of employment worldwide. Formal SMEs contribute up to 40% of national income (GDP) in emerging economies. These numbers are significantly higher when informal SMEs are included. According to recent estimates by the international Labour organisation (ILO), over 600 million jobs will be needed by 2030 to absorb the growing global workforce, which makes SMEs development a high priority for many governments around the world. In emerging markets, most formal jobs are generated by SMEs, which create 7 out of 10 jobs. However, access to finance is a key constraint to SME growth, it is the second most cited obstacle facing SMEs to grow their businesses in emerging markets and developing countries”. It is against the background of the foregoing view that the DBN’s disbursement of a total of N482 billion to SMEs since inception was highly commended by many industry players and experts alike even as they were unanimous in their views that the bank is truly Nigeria’s primary wholesale development finance Institution. Tony Okpanachi, who recently made the disclosure at its AGM at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, said 65% of the money was disbursed to women and youth-owned businesses. While presenting the summary of the financial statement for the year ended December31, 2021, the DBN Managing Director informed stakeholders that the fundamentals of the Bank’s financials are robust. Continuing, he said: “We continued to focus and deliver on our mandate of providing access to finance through our PFIs to Nigeria’s most critical, but underserved Micro, Small, and Medium Scale Enterprises building their capacity and that of the PFIs in addition to the provision of partial credit guarantee to encourage lending to this very important sub-sector of the economy. “Our cumulative disbursement of N482billion especially to women-owned or managed businesses; is something that we are particularly delighted about from the perspective of women empowerment and poverty alleviation,” the MD emphasised. He assured, “We continued to focus and deliver on our mandate of providing access to finance through our PFIs to Nigeria’s most critical, but underserved Micro, Small, and Medium Scale Enterprises building their capacity and that of the PFIs in addition to the provision of partial credit guarantee to encourage lending to this very important sub-sector of the economy”. Okpanachi further expressed his gratitude to the bank’s shareholders, development partners, PFIs, Board of Directors, and employees for their continued support and vowed to continue to remain focused on the bank’s mandate as well as sustain efforts towards achieving sustainable financing and capacity building for the MSMEs. Given DBN’s performance towards the growth of MSMEs and other categories of small- scale businesses, not few industry watchers have commented that the sector appear more hopeful now than ever before. This is because the DBN which only joined in the deliberate efforts of the government to prop up this sector of the economy recently seems to be making significant impact. Experts say Development banks, national or regional financial institutions are designed to provide medium- and long-term capital for productive investments, often accompanied by technical assistance, in poor countries, and it is salient to note that the bank is not lagging behind as far as the philosophy behind its establishment is concerned. There is no denying the fact that DBN, under Okpanachi’s leadership is been piloted to demonstrate the fact that it is a development financial institutions that focuses on the provision of all types of financial assistance (medium as well as long term) to business units, in the form of loans, underwriting, investment and guarantee operations, and promotional activities, economic development in general, and industrial development, in particular. It would be recalled at this juncture that DBN was established to pursue these developmental objectives across the width and breadth of the country. But it appears DBN has taken its work beyond the primary responsibilities of development and enthroned a rare ingredient known as efficiency in its operations. At this juncture, it is expedient to say that DBN was set up as a wholesale Development Finance Institution (DFI) to provide sustainable financing through eligible Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), who would in turn, lend to end-borrowers – Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for the development of that segment. With a vision to be Nigeria’s primary development finance institution; promoting growth and sustainability, DBN seeks to fulfil three key mandates which include, Lending activities to MSMEs, Partial Credit Guarantees and Capacity Building. DBN says it has not come to intervene but to increase access and ensure sustainability of long- term loans to small businesses. Industry analysts believe DBN has in fact, come to rescue and change the fortunes of MSME’s in Nigeria given that no economy develops without small and medium scale industries. Not only is DBN providing funding for operators of MSMEs, it has been facilitating entrepreneurship training programme for them through participating financial institutions, and has in the same breath been building their capacity to enable them become eligible to access credit. The strategy has been helpful in ensuring that DBN builds a quality and sustainable Capacity Building Programme that ensures MSMEs are well equipped with skills and competencies to defend sound and viable business proposals, improve the Capacity of MSMEs to access available credit and improve the capacity of MSMEs for efficient funds utilisation, trade, investments and access to markets. Without doubt, the efforts of DBN’s leadership have unarguably been very developmental to the nation’s growth as it is providing money for MSMEs and for Nigeria. That is really important because statistics has it that 50 per cent of the country’s GDP is made up of small companies. These are small size companies, petty traders and other small operators. So, finding how to make money available to them is really an important way of getting out of the challenges we currently face. So, getting DBN’s funding of the MSMEs across the country is unarguably boosting the employment opportunities, particularly for the youths. Timothy Iwuoha, an industry watchers say the activities of DBN under Okpanachi’s leadership cannot be overlooked as the empowerment of operators of the existing MSMEs is by each passing day deepening their collective ability to employ more people. He said; “We also hope to see more MSMEs come on stream to join the already existing ones. The more of these we have, the less our worries about unemployment because they naturally generate employment opportunities.” Analysed from the foregoing perspective, it is incontrovertible that DBN is fostering a prosperous and inclusive MSMEs ecosystem In Nigeria.