LAGOS – Godwin Izilien, former player and coach of the Super Falcons, has charged the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to resolve all lingering issues related to the appointment of a new coach for the Super Eagles. The coach was responding to a question from our correspondent on whether it was right that the Super Eagles would be involved in a 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying matches soon with the national team still without a substantive coach. Recall that since the exit of interim manager Austin Eguavoen, the team has been without a substantive coach with stories that emanated from the Glass House recently indicating that the NFF had agreed terms with Portuguese Paseiro but were still convincing the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to accept the choice. -Advertisement- However, Izilien said it was wrong for the national team to stay this long without a manager realising the failures it had suffered recently, saying it was high time the NFF did the needful by appointing a substantive manager for the team. “Whatever issues holding this should have been resolved. I think they should have moved on with this coach issue. “We failed at the Nations Cup and also the World Cup qualifying. Those should have been enough to tell us why we should always start early. “For now there is no programme for the team because there is no manager for them; somebody will lead them to the friendly matches but what is that person’s position in the team? Can he relax to the the job as the coach when his position is not guaranteed? “Whether it is an issue as you pointed out, they should resolve it and make sure a new coach who will roll out his programmes is appointed as soon as possible,” he charged. POLL Meanwhile, Coach Salisu Yusuf has been mandated to take charge of the two friendly matches between Nigeria and Ecuador as well as Mexico since there is no substantive coach. He will submit his programmes for the two matches to the NFF this week. The two countries are using the matches against Nigeria to prepare for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar after being grouped alongside African oppositions.