P/HARCOURT – The Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, has made a commitment to assist the Faculty of Law of the Rivers State University to upgrade its facilities to ensure that it remains one of the best in the country. Speaking during a courtesy visit by a delegation from the Law Faculty and members of the Law Students Association of Nigeria, LAWSAN, to the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt, the Interim Administrator, Dr Efiong Akwa, said that the Commission would continue to increase its investment in human capital development. The NDDC Chief Executive Officer, who was presented a plaque as “LAWSAN Icon of the Year,” said: “In memory of today’s visit, I will approve a brand new 18-seater bus to be donated to the LAWSAN, RSU by NDDC.” -Advertisement- In addition, he said: “We will like to fund the provision of some facilities such as a boardroom for lecturers and alternate power supply and cap it with a donation of fifty million Naira.” Akwa said he was delighted that the Dean of the Law Faculty and departmental heads thought it wise to appreciate a one-time student in the faculty, stating: “I want to encourage the students in the Faculty of Law, RSU because it is one of the best in Nigeria. Credit goes to the workaholic Governor of Rivers State, Chief Nyesom Wike, who has funded the place well. The Lecture Theater of Law is comparable to what I see in London, Paris and USA.” The NDDC boss lamented that the COVID-19 pandemic had put a cap on the NDDC Foreign Post Graduate Scholarship Programme. “We are now looking inwards to fully involve universities in the Niger Delta region and the Rivers State University has been selected as one of the institutions for this purpose.” He said that henceforth, NDDC would be investing in universities in the Niger Delta region to make them centres of excellence to train many Nigerians. POLL The Dean of the Faculty of Law, Prof. Chris Wigwe (SAN), commended the NDDC for building the capacity of universities in the Niger Delta region, pointing out, however, that the university would need support from alumni bodies. He said: “We joined the students to visit you. We know about Corporate Social Responsibility. In other climes, the alumni are pillars of support for their former institutions. You schooled in Rivers State University, and you are one of us. So, we expect some support from you. We thank you for your previous efforts. In a few months, our faculty will be facing accreditation, so we need a few facilities to help the faculty. We are asking for assistance.”