Eric Ihaza is a young celebrity stylist that has created a niche for himself in the fashion industry. Just two years in the industry he has garnered for himself high profile jobs and also styled top celebrities like Agbani, Simi, Teni, Tuface and his wife, Annie Idibia, among many others. In this interview with NGOZI UMA, he narrated his journey into the industry and spoke on how youths could be creative without the use of hard drugs. He touched on other issues. Excerpts: Tell us about yourself. I am a fashion stylist, costume designer, and commercial model. I graduated from the University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, where I studied Agric and Farm Management. I am also a talented singer, and I love fashion. So it was in between me doing Agric business, singing or doing fashion. While I was in school, I was part of the choristers for five years and I was the head of the choir. -Advertisement- Obviously, you are not practising what you studied in school, why did you chose to follow this path? I was doing fashion while in school. Styling and doing wardrobe management for my friends. I judged the school pageantry for three years and I was selling clothes at the same time. I was just doing everything I was passionate about. When I was rounding up my service year in Jos, I pondered on what to do after service. I prayed because I don’t do things without God’s leading. I like when people look good. I can just see someone not properly dressed, I will adjust his collar or something. I am that kind of person that would see that your collar is not properly done, your shoelace is not properly done and I will sharply do it for you. As a young person, can you share with us your journey so far in fashion styling? My journey into costume design started when a friend of mine, Kelvin Nnah, invited me to Lagos State theatre festival. He was part of the organisers. He told me to just come and be among the volunteers. He said I will get N1000 per day. That money was not enough to take me from mainland to the Island as at 2019. I am never money conscious. I did the job. I was the stage manager for ‘Lavender’ – a play directed and produced by Kemi Lala Akindoju. I did it the first day and was very dedicated to my work there; I never knew she noticed me and asked them to bring me back. At the end of the show, on the last day, I was referred to Arise Fashion 2019. It was just few of us they referred to go for that job. I was opportune to work with top international designers and models in Nigeria and abroad. I met some big gigs in the fashion industry. Still from that job, I got another call. After the whole job, I went back home. I remembered sending Lala a message that I was bored, I wanted to work and she told me to come for a job on movie production. From there, I met other top artists. I was an intern but I rose to become fashion assistant for the job. Since then it has been back to back. I have been doing a lot of jobs. Any challenges? POLL One of the challenges I face in the job is sizing. You have a job and actors are not sending their sizes, and I get impromptu jobs always. But over time I have grown my mind to face challenges – when challenges come, I think of solutions. How did you break into the industry? How I broke into the industry – I have always been me, my normal hard working person, takes to details and very disciplined. A lot of youths have this entitlement mentality, some are very rude. Being in this kind of industry, you have to be very calm but not like in a ‘mumu’ way. You have to be well-disciplined. You don’t talk anyhow when you are on set, you don’t drink, smoke, and not abusive. And you don’t wear a long face while on set. To remain relevant, you have to be disciplined and well-mannered. What advice do you have for young graduates who are unemployed? I will tell graduates to take time out to think of what you want to be and not what the family want you to be. Then you strategize on how to achieve it. For instance, you want to be an actor, what production company can you intern for? How do you see yourself in the next ten years? I will also advise young people to be themselves. Abstain from drugs, don’t do hard drugs. You can be creative without taking hard drugs. You don’t need to feel good taking those substances. Don’t be depressed, if you have challenges talk to someone, call that your friend, go out and have positive vibes together. Don’t kill yourself, it’s not the end of the world. You are the best definition of you. 10 years from now, where do you see yourself in this fashion industry? Ten years from now, I see my brand well-grown, I see myself as a major stakeholder in the fashion industry, recognized internationally. My brand placement will be a kind, if it’s not ‘Ricky Xtopha’, it will be no other brand, not just in Nigeria and Africa but also in the world.