ABEOKUTA – An insurance guru and the Founder and Group Managing Director of Regency Alliance Insurance, Olubiyi Otegbeye, has formally declared his intention to battle Governor Dapo Abiodun for the governorship seat of Ogun State under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Otegbeye, during his declaration on Monday in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, vowed to fight poverty and insecurity in the State if elected as the Governor of the State in 2023. The former House of Representatives candidate during the 2019 election also pledged to unify the State through purposeful leadership. -Advertisement- He insisted that, he remains the most capable aspirant to rescue the State from insecurity, poor economy and turn the fortunes of the State around. Otegbeye lamented the high rate of poverty in the State, which according to him has prevented the people from reaching their potential. He said, “If by the grace of God and the wisdom of our distinguished delegates here present, I win the nomination of our party, I will be offering the unifying political leadership that Ogun state urgently needs and which our great party will be proud of. “Today, I offer myself as a catalyst in breaking the cycle of poverty in Ogun State. With my experience, I intend to lead a statewide effort to mobilise the private, public and nonprofit sectors together to create solutions that are innovative, practical and relevant to our people. “Every policy and project we put forward as a government will have an immediate Poverty Alleviation Content (IMPACT). POLL “80 per cent of Ogun State Households think the reduction of poverty should be the priority of the government. The economic and social return on investment from lifting 100 households out of poverty monthly will reduce poverty by 40 per cent while increasing purchasing power and GDP in our local community. “As Governor, I will lead the fight against poverty in Ogun State because poverty has a widespread impact, contributing to issues like crime, unemployment, poor health, domestic violence, social vices, isolation and depression. “The cost of basic needs of life has risen faster than both the rate of inflation and wages. A growing number of households earn less than what it costs to maintain a household survival budget.” Another governorship aspirant, Abiodun Akinlade also witnessed the declaration which witnessed a large turnout of the party faithful. Akinlade, who was the first runner up in the 2019 governorship election in the State is also expected to formally declare his intention on Tuesday.