JOS – Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has pledged support to the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) ahead of its National Conference tagged “Tin City 2022” scheduled to hold in Jos, November this year. Governor Simon Lalong who gave this indication while receiving the National President of the PSN Prof. Cyril Usifo at the New Government House Little Rayfield Jos on Tuesday, said Plateau State was eager to host the Pharmacists who have been very helpful to the health and socio-economic development of the State. Lalong accepted to be part of the Conference, adding that the State Government will give all necessary support to ensure a successful National Conference in line with the State’s history of hospitality and accommodation. -Advertisement- He said the choice of Jos as the host city for PSN National Conference is another testimony and dividend of the peace efforts that the Rescue Administration has put in place over the past 7 years. The Governor while commending the pharmacists for doing their best towards safeguarding the health of the citizens, appealed to them to intensify their surveillance, monitoring and enforcement against drug abuse, illicit drugs, self-medication and other harmful practices. PSN President Prof. Cyril Usifo said the Council agreed to give Plateau the hosting rights of the Conference because of the improved security situation in the State and the efforts of the Governor to improve the health of the citizens. Uniform also thanked the Governor for his policies towards better practice of pharmacy and his support to members of the profession in both public and private practice. Plateau State Chaiperson of the PSN Kaneng Pam said the State will benefit a lot from hosting the event 27 years since it last hosted it. POLL According to her, the efforts of the Governor in creating enabling environment for businesses to thrive is responsible for the consideration of Plateau for the highest gathering of Pharmacists in Nigeria. The Governor was also decorated with the official regalia for the Conference and also presented with the hosting banner.