….Bars Journalists From Entering Venue Minna – Countdown to the national delegates Conference of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) ahead of next year’s election, Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo has outlined a number of mouth watering incentives for the delegates supporting his candidature. The incentives included; providing decent accommodation, taking care of their feeding, providing transport to and from their hotel rooms while all the delegates who were asked to submit their account details are to be credited with unspecified sum of money. -Advertisement- Campaign team of Vice President Yemi Osinbanjo announced this as part of incentives to woo about 300 APC delegates from Niger state. Mr Babafemi Ojudu, the spokesperson for the Vice President’s Campaign team had told the delegates after they were thoroughly screened/briefed on what is expected of them not worry about accommodation, feeding and transport even as it has been taken care of. Account numbers of the delegates who had converged at Government house for the one-on-one interaction with the Vice President were collected while journalists were almost immediately ordered out of the conference hall or security agents will be invited to throw them out. The Vice President however arrived Government house Minna at about 4.10pm along with his host, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello for an event scheduled for 10am when journalists converged at government House. Shortly before his arrival, Political Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Mr Babafemi Ojudu told the already seated journalists to immediately vacate the hall as the meeting is strictly APC family affairs between the aspirants and  the delegates. POLL He said, “Am appealing to you all to kindly leave now before any one is manhandled by the security agencies, I am also a journalist, I would not like that to happen and that 8s why Iam telling you to leave us now”. Ojudu assured all the delegates present that the campaign team of the Vice President had made enough arrangements for them to be comfortable and enjoy their stay at Abuja during the Presidential primary schedule for the Eagle Square on the 1st of June 2022. According to Ojudu, “We the partners and friends to Osinbajo have made adequate arrangements for your accommodation, feeding and the general welfare of all delegates, infact the hotel reservation we made is to ensure that each delegate is entitled to a room to him or herself, we don’t want a man to share a room with a woman who is not his wife. “There will be a desk officer that at all the hotels where you are accommodated who will attend to all your needs in case you need anything. Buses will be provided to convey you to the venue. “We want you as delegates to carry out this assignment and also enjoy yourselves while in Abuja for the conference and in carrying out the assignment”. If he emerges President in February, 2023, the Presidential Political Adviser assured the delegates that Professor Osinbanjo will review the reward system of the party to ensure that all those that contributed to the success of the party will get political appointments. “Every President has about 20, 000 jobs he can offer, our thinking is that since we have just a little over 7, 000 plus delegates, they should be compensated accordingly for sacrifices and commitments towards the success of the party,” Ojudu stated.