Comrade Aluh Moses Odeh is the National Leader, All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF). In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the kind of president Nigeria needs, the high cost of forms which the major political parties charge aspirants, the issue of zoning, and the need for the Middle Belt region to produce the next Vice President of the country. Excerpt: The Middle Belt youths recently held a national summit. What are the major issues that came up during the meeting? Yes, we had a successful Pan Middle Belt Youth Summit that x-rayed the state of insecurity that has made our region a centre for bloodbath and forceful acquisition of our God given ancestral agricultural table land by the killer Fulani herdsmen, which has led to 15 communities in Plateau State to be renamed after the Caliphate. This is not because they conquered us, but because they are acting with the backing of the Federal Government and its security apparatus. Trans-regional economic development was also an important issue discussed as well as the revitalisation of our rich cultural heritage for revenue generation as we plan to hold Middle Belt Cultural Day slated for the later part of the year, thereby arousing the consciousness of our people, a development which has started yielding results. As I speak, some ethnic nationalities have started calling on the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Middle Belt Youth Forum (AMBYF) for their readiness to host our meeting in their various states. One of the resolutions reached at the summit was the demand that the position of Vice President be reserved for the Middle Belt region. How politically right is this demand and how would the Middle Belt stakeholders ensure that the major political parties buy into the idea? You should know that we are in tandem with our leaders in our demand for the position of Vice President of Nigeria come 2023. The reason is that we have done so well to keep Nigeria as one. Our electoral values or block votes give us the impetus. As far back as 1993, our leaders made the same request before Chief M.K.O. Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). But he turned down the request and gave the same to the Arewa only to return and apologise for having deliberately denied us the position. But when the chips were down, it was the Middle Belt that stood by him during the June 12 struggle, both financially and in human capital. Unfortunately, when people talk or write about the June 12 struggle, no reference is made to the contributions of those leaders like Gen. T.Y. Danjuma, HE Air Commodore Dan Suleiman, HE David Jonah Jang, and HE David Mark, etc. Our stakeholders know that our demand for the region to produce the Vice President in 2023 is long overdue and cannot be altered with the election of the duo of Sen. Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and Sen. Abdullahi Adamu as National Chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) respectively, because their position is purely political party matter and not governance. We want to be part of governance now as we have taken a back seat since 1999. The region took a position for long that power should shift to the South in 2023. It is incumbent on the same Southern presidential candidate to pick a Middle Belter as running mate. The Middle Belt is strategic and remains the region to decide who wins the election. How do you see the amount being charged aspirants by the major political parties for the Intent and Declaration forms? The amounts are very exorbitant. The All Progressives Congress (APC) instigated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to charge N40 million in 2015. The APC collected N27.5million. And in 2019, they collected N45million, while PDP maintained below N25million. If I am in a party and wish to seek any of the offices, I will sue both parties because of the exorbitant cost of Expression of Interest and Nomination Form. A lot of Nigerians have predicted that the ongoing consensus and zoning arrangements by All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) could cause crises in the parties before, during and after the primaries. What is your take on that? POLL The noise about consensus is just to please some certain politicians. According to a common saying, ‘He who pays the piper dictates the tune’. Consensus is undemocratic. It promotes corruption as the so-called consensus denies the right person to emerge as the political party’s standard bearer as only those who milk our treasury dry are the likely people to emerge as consensus candidates. If the PDP dares to jettison the zoning arrangement to please Senator Bukola Saraki and his team, that will be the end of the party in 2023. The report of the Samuel Ortom-led Zoning Committee is a mere report which holds no water as the authentic position of the party will be made public after the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting. If the party is not courageous enough to zone power to the South, they should be ready to remain in opposition till 2027 because Nigerian electorates are prepared to resist them vehemently. I laughed when I heard some leaders of the party saying that they would give their ticket to a candidate that can win the election for them. When you hear the name of the so-called purported person to win election for them, he is a serial loser in his polling unit and his state. What is your response to the reported decision by Prof. Ango Abdullahi-led Northern Elders to endorse certain PDP presidential aspirants as Northern consensus candidates? Ango Abdullahi only spoke in line with the wishes of the highest bidders. His endorsement of HE Bukola Saraki and HE Bala Mohammed as northern consensus candidates is laughable. These were the same people that rejected Bukola Saraki when he sought to contest in past elections. When has the name, Bukola Saraki, become a northern name that the north is now supporting him? The position of the Middle Belt that political power should shift to the South cannot be undermined. Not even the so-called consensus candidate of Ango Abdullahi can change it. Would you say that, given the calibre of presidential aspirants from the South East and South South, that the regions are ready to produce the right president for the country? I don’t think there are high-calibre presidential aspirants in the two zones, except Mazi Dr. Sam Ohuabunwa. He is the only aspirant from the two zones who has demonstrated competence, courage and character. He has traversed the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) twice to consult the Office of Citizens and members of his party, the PDP, respectively. Some of those aspirants cannot leave their houses in their own land once it is 6pm due to the fear of what is best known to them. So, how can they lead us when they do not know or feel what we are going through? Now, Nigerians don’t want a regular politician who has nothing to offer, but a new face, a technocrat, industrialist, and wealth creator. How do you think the issue of the presidential aspirations of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Gov Kayode Fayemi may play out in the South West? They are Nigerians who have the fundamental right to aspire for the office, but the choice of who becomes the president is left to Nigerians to decide. With the level of insecurity in the country, do you think the 2023 general elections will really hold in every part of the country? I believe President Muhammadu Buhari will want to end his tenure as president who cannot conduct free and fair election as a result of insecurity. So, there is the hope that election will hold without security threats. In 2015, there were security challenges also, but the then President Goodluck Jonathan had to suspend the election for six weeks to allow our gallant military to dislodge those terrorist and we had a successful election that produced Muhammadu Buhari as president.