The refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the amendment to section 84(8) of the Electoral Act 2022, sent to him by the National Assembly recently poses a major threat to the primaries of the political parties participating in the 2023 general elections, especially the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Senate and the House of Representatives passed the amendment to the Act to recognise statutory delegates which include elected councilors, local government chairmen and their deputies, party chairmen in local government areas, state and federal lawmakers (current and former), governors and their deputies, president and vice president, National Working Committee members, state party chairmen and secretaries as voters during primaries, congresses and conventions of all the political parties. However, with the president’s refusal to sign the amended Act, only democratically elected delegates will be able to vote at the primaries as section 84 (8) clearly stipulates that “A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the choice of its candidate shall clearly outline in its constitution and rules the procedure for the democratic election of delegates to vote at the convention, congress or meeting.” -Advertisement- The PDP has already begun its primaries with the state Houses of Assembly and the House of Representatives elections which was held nationwide on Sunday while the Senatorial primaries will be held today. The party’s governorship primary is fixed for May 26 while the presidential primary has been fixed for May 28 and May 29. For the APC, the governorship and House of Representatives primary election exercise will hold on Thursday, May 26, Senate and House of Assembly primary elections are slated for Friday, May 27, while its presidential primary will hold on May 29. Speaking with Daily Independent on Sunday, the Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Public Interest and Development Law, Monday Ubani, said the failure of the president in signing the amended version of the Electoral Act will affect the outcome of the primaries if wrong delegates are allowed to vote. “It will certainly affect the outcome of the primaries if wrong delegates are allowed to participate in the primaries, it will mar the process”, Ubani said. POLL In his reaction, Hon. Bosun Oladele, National Secretary of the South West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA ’23), urged President Buhari to assent to the amended Act before the convention. He said while the failure to sign the amended Act will not prevent candidates from emerging at the primaries, it will definitely reduce the number of votes expected owing to the exclusion of statutory delegates. “It will definitely reduce the number of votes expected for the cross-section of aspirants across party lines. “It will not prevent the aspirants that will fly the party’s flags in all parties from winning and emerging. If an aspirant is popular among delegates, the popularity will not be limited to a section but generality of delegates”. He also said the exclusion of statutory delegates will not affect the chances of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, frontline presidential aspirant of the APC who SWAGA members are rooting for as the next president. “For us in SWAGA’23, if one person per state is chosen as delegate, Asiwaju Tinubu will win the ticket by God’s grace and with the people’s support. “However, to enable an even spread of the camaraderie and sense of belonging and that feeling of popular participation in the process, I will urge the president to accent to the amended Act before the convention”. Also speaking with Daily Independent, a former National Vice-Chairman of the APC, who asked not to be named said there is great advantage in President Buhari’s refusal to sign the amended Electoral Act. “It is clear that the president won’t sign the amended Act since the primaries have started but I believe it has its advantages. The advantage is that unlike we used to have, the primaries won’t be crowded. With statutory delegates out, the number of delegates is restricted. “All the appointees that politicians usually make use of to manipulate the primaries won’t participate. It will be very difficult for anyone to throw money around in order to influence the primaries because the number of delegates are limited. Also, it will be very easy to monitor the voting and it will not allow for abuse or manipulation.” When asked if there are fears that the outcome of the primaries may be nullified, he said, “The primaries can’t be nullified as long as the political parties complied with the existing Electoral Laws”.