The Minister of the FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has paid tribute to the pioneer staff of the FCT Administration who braved the odds and made tremendous sacrifices to lay the foundation for what the nation’s capital is today. Bello equally paid tribute to thousands of construction workers and other employees who made Abuja their home and paved the way for others to follow in their wake. He made this known in his message to commemorate May Day, offering his felicitations to all workers in the FCT on the celebration of the 2022 Workers’ Day. The Minister congratulated the leadership and members of the Nigeria Labour Congress, (NLC) the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and all other employees across the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to him, the collective efforts of all the workers have over the years ensured the sustained development and growth of the Federal Capital Territory making the city of Abuja one of the most beautiful capital cities in Africa and the pride of every Nigerian. In the words of the Minister “ As we celebrate Workers’ Day, let us not forget the tremendous sacrifices made by the pioneer staff of the FCT Administration, who braved the odds and displayed an extreme sense of patriotism by coming to the FCT to lay the foundation of what has today, become a beautiful capital territory. He urged today’s employees, to show the same zeal and imbibe a similar sense of duty as demonstrated by their predecessors. The Minister also commended the leadership of organized labour unions in Nigeria for the theme of the 2022 Workers’ Day celebration which is “Labour, Politics and Quest for Good Governance and Development in Nigeria” describing it as apt and timely. POLL He reminded all that delivering on good governance should not be left to the government alone but should be the responsibility of all, saying that good governance can only be achieved with the collaboration and cooperation of all strata of society including the labour unions, the government and the citizenry, considering that all were working for the same goals. He assured residents that the Abuja light rail will soon resume operations having been suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He also said that the on-going Greater Abuja Water Project will, on completion, tremendously improve water supply in the FCT. He finally wished them all a memorable 2022 Workers’ Day celebrations.