LAGOS – As the two major political parties get ready for their presidential primaries at the end of this month, a detailed analysis by Channels Television on the manifestos of top contenders across the two parties, All Progressives  Congress  (APC) and the Peoples Democratic  Party (PDP) has thrown up Governor Yahaya Bello as the aspirant with the most feasible roadmap. In the rating done by Channels TV Data Analyst, Babajide Ogunsanwo, on the TV station’s programme, Politics Today, Bello led others in the area of equity, accountability, wealth creation/management, education, security, power and industrialization. The DG, however, stated that the TV station recorded a tie for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. -Advertisement- The statement added that other aspirants whose manifestos were reviewed include APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu; Vice President Atiku Abubakar; Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; and Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. According to the report former Senate President Bukola Saraki, former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi; Senate President Ahmad Lawan and former Minister of Science and Tech, Ogbonnaya Onu were part of those assessed. The report noted that Tambuwal, Fayemi, Obi and Tinubu tied second in the rating; Wike, third; Onu and Atiku tied fourth, among others. Meanwhile, in another detailed analysis of the manifestos of just the APC contenders by Channels TV on Thursday, Bello still led other aspirants. There was however still a tie between him and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, while Fayemi came second, Tinubu and Onu, third; Ameachi, fourth, among others. The statement stressed that Governor Bello has presented his manifesto widely to the public through various media platforms and made the same available to party stakeholders. POLL “His 16-point roadmap for his Hope ’23 Presidential Campaign tagged ‘The Roadmap’, spells out details of proposed activities in key sectors, including security, agriculture, education, and power among others,” the statement noted. Director-General of the Hope ’23 Yahaya Bello Campaign Council, Hafsat Abiola-Costello had said that no candidate was better positioned for the 2023 Presidency than Governor Bello, a leading aspirant in the race. “The latest rating by Channels TV shows that the presidential race will not be about the highest bidder but about who can effectively build on the successes of President Muhammadu Buhari, tackle the challenges headlong, and has also demonstrated great capacity in like assignments. “We thank Channels TV for daring to be objective in a contest involving many heavyweights,” Director, Media and Publicity, Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Yemi Kolapo, said.