ISAAC ASABOR In the bid to change the narrative along the leather value chain of the African leather industry, the 5th edition of the Lagos Leather Fair (LLF) has been scheduled to take place on the 11th and the 12th of June, 2022, at the Balmoral Convention Center, Victoria Island. To achieve its aim of changing the narrative in the African leather industry, the fair will be a pedestal for driving economic growth, creating visibility for the stakeholders in the leather industry and providing access to opportunities for MSMEs across Nigeria and the wider continent. -Advertisement- The end result, no doubt, will be profusion of quality leather products across markets. Against the foregoing background, it is expedient to say that the leather value chain across the world starts with animal husbandry and ends with the manufacture of leather goods. Bovine hides, sheep and goatskins are the principal hides used and are processed in tanneries before becoming leather footwear, garments and accessories like travel bags, belts among other end products of leather, even as it is also used for technical products and upholstery. The leather value chain, no doubt, includes sequences of activities. It starts with the recovery of hides and skins from slaughtered animals on farms and in slaughterhouses. This is followed by the conversion of hides and skins into leather in tanneries. This process usually requires substantial investment in equipment. The tanning stage is then followed by the manufacture of leather products, which is often carried out in small, labour-intensive workshops with less need for substantial investment in equipment, or in larger capital-intensive factories. POLL The marketing of intermediate and end products at different stages in the chain is the key to success in the modern leather products business. At the global level it is tightly controlled by international marketing agents who have both market knowledge and a wide network of sales channels that allow them to manage the complex supply chain mechanism, contracting production, providing finance and serving the customer on time. Unarguably, to ensure that markets and shops across the country are stocked with quality leather products, and that quality and professionalism are infused at each value chain in the sub sector, the Lagos Leather Fair, which is reputed to be the biggest leather fair in sub-Saharan Africa will be driven by its theme “The Game Changer”, and will open its doors to leather enthusiasts, producers, manufacturers, lifestyle lovers, fashion experts and leather businesses under one roof to showcase leather products and services. Founder of the Lagos Leather Fair and Creative Director of Femi handbag, Femi Olayebi shared the expectations of LLF@5 to include a series of masterclasses, creative workshops, atelier sessions, brand exhibitions and a fashion runway showcase. Conversations at the masterclass will have speakers like Adeyinka Abimbola, Ehi Binitie, Ache Idachaba-Obaro, Papa Omotayo, Muyiwa Femi Pearse, Adenike Adeyemi amongst others. Not only that, the fair will launch new initiatives that will avail young, emerging, experienced leather designers and lifestyle enthusiasts a unique opportunity to enhance the leather community within Nigeria and provide a bigger platform to showcase Nigerian owned and manufactured leather products and services to both local and international clientele. The fair, which will no doubt be a huge platform for virtually all stakeholders in the sub sector, will offer guests, who may invariably be customers in the sector, exhibitors, speakers, sponsors, partners and in the leather industry a rare opportunity to network, be inspired, expand business opportunities, unveil popular and emerging leather brands, own new leather products, gain insight on leather products and services and explore a large array of leather accessories. Organizers of the fair say the fifth edition will be used as a pedestal for the launching of a partnership with “Kafawa, which is a training program designed to bridge the skills gap in the industry and reduce youth unemployment in Nigeria. Graduates from Kafawa’s pilot set will form this year’s Emerging Designers group at LLF5: an opportunity for the best of Kafawa’s newly-trained youth to formally make their entrance into the industry. Also been strategized to highlight this year’s fair, is the Leather Portal, which will be launched, and aimed at bridging the information gap in the industry. The Leather Portal was created to serve as a resource hub and an e-directory that would provide relevant and open-access information specific to leather and leather goods, and connect leather designers, tanners, hardware suppliers, input suppliers and brands across Africa and internationally. Mr. Kelvin Nnabuife, an economist, say the leather industry is huge, and that if LLF keeps strengthening its efforts, and has sustainability at the back of its mind that the sector is surely going to be one of the most profitable sectors in Nigeria’s economy. It would be recalled that facts similar to that of Nnabuife’s were on July 6 2021 provided by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, during the launch the National Leather & Leather Products Policy Implementation Plan in Abuja. In his speech at the time, the vice president said, “Being one of the highest producers of leather and finished leather products in Africa with a projected revenue of US$1 billion by 2025, the industry could become a game-changer for Nigeria’s economy by improving the country’s foreign exchange earnings, boosting growth, and providing employment for young Nigerians. Prof. Osinbajo, who made the disclosure during the formal launch and sensitisation workshop on the National Leather and Leather Products Policy Implementation Plan in Abuja July 6, 2021, added that with the right planning and strategy, optimising the value chain, these goals could become reality soon. He referenced a study carried out by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) which projected that the Nigerian leather industry has the potential of not only increasing its earnings by 70 percent but also generating over US$1 billion by 2025. According to the Vice President, “there is no question that properly organised, the leather and leather products industry could become one of the major items in Nigeria’s export basket. ‘‘The leather value chain is extensive. It includes animal husbandry, tanneries, finished leather products, and leather products marketing. The leather and leather products industry currently employs over 750,000 workers with about 500,000 workers in the finished leather goods sector. About 11 leather exporting companies have been active at the upstream end of the leather value chain. “Also, the export of leather has grown steadily, reaching a peak of $117 million in 2018. Exports fell in 2020 largely due to the pandemic, but to date, are in the order of $272m.”