ABUJA – The Nigerian Red Cross Society has urged Nigerians to show empathy and love to the vulnerable population and less privileged people who have being displaced across the country. The Secretary General of the organisation, Abubakar Ahmed Kende who was represented by Andronicus Adeyemo disclosed this on Sunday during World Red Cross Day celebration in Abuja. The theme for this year event is #BeHumanKind and is being celebrated simultaneously in 192 sovereign sister National societies globally. -Advertisement- He said there is need for Nigerians to cultivate habit of kindness and care to those who are prone to conflicts, natural disasters, kidnapping, banditry and terrorist attacks. According to him “Everyday we are inundated with news of situations of violence, local conflicts, International armed conflicts, floods , climate crises, building collapse, herders/farmers attack earthquakes. “While disturbing ones confronting us in Nigeria includes banditry attacks, kidnapping, insurgency and terrorism and of course the monster that looks like it will be here for a while yet Covid-19.” “In the midst of all this, little act of kindness go a long way . Now make no mistake, your one random act of kindness may not make the original problem go away entirely. But your empathy will trigger feelings of relief gratitude in the hearts of the recipients of the kind gesture.” While highlighting the projects being undertaken by the Red Cross in Nigeria Adeyemo said “We have what we call response activity for the insurgency and activity relating to mental health and psycho social support.” POLL “We are sinking boreholes, sanitation facilitate both on host communities and IDPs locations on Borno, Yobe, Adamawa, Bauchi and Taraba states.” “We also have hunger crisis that we are responding to . Banditry attacks and other kidnapping activities in the North West. We are targeting seven states as far as that hunger crisis intervention is concerned which includes; Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kebbi,  Niger and others.” “The theme for this year is #BeHumanKind. It doesn’t mean it has to be big. The little out of kindness individual can show whether you give water to displaced or vulnerable population or you assist them with items or pay their school fees.” Some of the activities at the event includes ; novelty football match, eating competition presentation of award to Mr. Benjamin Aghoro who emerged as the highest blood donor volunteer. World Red Cross Day is celebrated on the 8th of May each year and it was in honour of the founder of Red Cross Movement, Jean-Henry Dunant when he mobilized volunteers in nearby communities that helped wounded soldiers at the battle of Soldering in 1859. He was the first recipient of the first Nobel Peace Price . He was born on May 8th 1828.