The Osun State Chapter of the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has expressed displeasure with Pastor Akintaro Joshua Ojo over his recent utterances which the group said is capable of plummeting the state and the entire South West region into chaos and religious war. Politics Nigeria reports that according to a statement by Dr. AbdulAzeez Ademokoya, the MURIC Chairman, Osun Chapter, Pastor Akintaro is deliberately trying to provoke Muslims. “Just few days into mourning Deborah whose brutal killing MURIC condemned along with her senseless and audacious act of blasphemy, and as if that was not enough, a pastor by name Akintaro Joshua released an audio tape raining insults on Allah (The Supreme Creator), Islam, the Qur’an, and The Noble prophet of Islam Muhammad (Peace and blessings of Allah be upon him (SAW), an effrontery far more dangerous than one could imagine and which no sane Muslim can stomach,” MURIC’s statement reads. -Advertisement- “Some of his provocative utterances as heard in the audio-visual clip are: ‘We are not as stupid as your Muhammad’; ‘Your Muhammad is a sinner’; ‘There is nothing called Allah or Jibril. Muhammad is the one bearing those names’; ‘Go and tell your leader, Muhammad’s brain is dark and he is daft’; ‘Why call Muhammad ‘holy’, He is not Holy Prophet’. “Akintaro did not only release his rancorous and venomous audio, he also went ahead to include his two mobile numbers which are: 08034201859 and 08188898410 for whoever wants to attack him but nay, we won’t take laws into our hands and we urge all Muslims in Osun State to allow the security agencies to handle this man’s case. “The South West Nigeria is a more delicate area because of its fair share of both Muslims and Christians and any religious war in the zone could possibly wipe out millions of lives. “MURIC has continued to wonder what actually Akintaro wants to achieve in the South West by uttering such slanderous, heinous, malicious,derogatory, and egregious statements about our Lord, Allah, our Prophet Muhammad (SAW), our religion, Islam, and our book, the Glorious Qur’an.” POLL The Muslim group therefore asked police in the Osun and other law enforcement agencies to quickly wade in, “lest we witness another mayhem and loss of lives in the South West”.