LAGOS – The Nigerian women’s national basketball team, D’Tigress, have pleaded with the federal government to reverse the two-year withdrawal from international basketball. Only last week Thursday, the federal government announced the country’s withdrawal from international basketball for two years on the premise of the leadership crisis rocking the Nigeria Basketball Federation. The government promised to use the period to resolve the crisis in basketball, promising to set up an Interim Management Committee that will administer the sport and address other related issues bordering on the development of the sport. -Advertisement- The government reiterated its interest and commitment to the development of the sport and also the huge talents abound domestically, stating that it wants all these to happen in an atmosphere that is free of rancour and squabbles. The government called on players, officials, fans, and other stakeholders to remain calm as it embarks on far-reaching initiatives to reposition, sustain and stabilize the sport for growth and success in the long term. However, in a statement on Friday, the women’s team captain, Adaora Elonu, speaking for her colleague, disagreed with the ban. “This ban is taking away all our future competitions, accomplishments and goals to elevate, inspire, and make Nigeria proud,” she stated. “We would like to be given the opportunity to play for our country that we passionately love to represent in this upcoming FIBA Women’s World Cup. POLL “We have worked very hard to be three times Afrobasket Champions, Olympians and now we are blessed with another opportunity to continue that representation for Nigeria. “We want Nigerian Basketball to continue to grow and succeed on every level; from the local leagues, grassroots and even on the international stage. We believe that all levels of Nigerian basketball can excel with the proper attention, togetherness, and organization. “Our team is a testament to how successful Nigerian Basketball can be and how we have been an inspiration to all Nigerian athletes across the globe. “We wish to express our gratitude to all the coaches, medical staff, organizers, & fans. This ban not only penalizes us but you all as well. Your commitment and loyalty to our team will never go unnoticed. “We, as the Nigerian Women’s National Team plead for the reversal of the International Basketball ban,” the statement concluded.