A frontline senatorial aspirant for the Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District, Otuekong Inibehe Okori has advocated the need for aspirants to plan on laws that would reunify Nigeria. Okori who is contesting on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) said that his mission to the National Assembly is borne out of the desire to make laws for the smooth running of the country and the state in particular. Interacting with members of the correspondents chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Akwa Ibom State council in Uyo on Monday, the senatorial hopeful said good laws promote good governance and peaceful coexistence, adding that anything contrary could only breed disunity. -Advertisement- The PDP chieftain who recently returned to the party after a brief sojourn in APC said he would also ensure that his district and Akwa Ibom State, in general, are empowered. In his words “The primary responsibility of a lawmaker is the make laws for the country.  For things to go well in the country, there must be good laws in place. “My aspiration to contest is borne out of the need to make laws for the smooth running and good governance of our country Nigeria. “I will also ensure that our people are empowered and not discriminated against in terms of employment and appointments” He described the press as a critical segment in the Nigeria democratic process, adding that members of the press have put their lives on the line at various levels of the political evolution of Nigeria POLL ” In Akwa Ibom, I think we have gotten the best of the press. The press has done very well in Nigeria and the World in general. Look at what is happening in Ukraine, the journalists have put their lives on the line. “My mission here is to inform you that I am contesting for Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District. Most of you who are familiar with me know that this is not new terrain. “You would recall that in 2014, I was on this mission, where I contested against the former governor of the State,  I am sure most of you were in the picture. “Today,  I am coming for a consultation, just to inform you that I am running for that office again.  I have consulted all the ten local government areas that make up the senatorial district” he said.