IBADAN – The Special Assistant to Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde on OYSIEC, Honourable Tallest Innocent, has harped on the aggressive mobilization of the non-indigene community resident in Oyo State to participate and obtain permanent voter cards as the only way to ensure the Governor’s re-election bid. The Governor’s Aide, who highlighted this during a meeting with some national executives and Oyo state members of the Non-Indigenes Protectorate Grassroot Mobilization Team (NPGMT), held at the Cultural Centre, Mokola Ibadan; also said that the inclusiveness afforded to non-indigenes in Oyo State is a pointer to the government’s disposition towards building a society free where people are treated based on their character as against places of origin or ethnicity. He said “Oyo State is lucky. We the non-indigenes resident here are also lucky to witness such a government that is disposed to creating a level playing field for people from every part of the world to live and thrive. -Advertisement- “Think of the fact that this is happening at a point when our country is divided across religious and ethnic lines. Such things are not happening in Oyo State, we have a man who has been ghastly endowed with the wisdom to pilot the affairs of the state with distinction. “The year 2023 is around the corner, it also offers the electorates the opportunity to return good leaders to the office and relieve mandates from those who have not lived up to expectations. “Your strongest asset at this critical time is your permanent voter card (PVC). The registration is ongoing and at various local government and wards levels, endeavour to mobilize your people to obtain their PVCs so that they will not be disenfranchised.” Tallest, while urging the people to disregard whatever negative stories from the detractors of the State, called for collective efforts of the non-indigenous people in the state to fight injustice and establish honesty which is the hallmark of the ongoing administration. Earlier in his address, the National President of NPGMT, Comrade Desmonfred Enemona Adejo, particularly extolled the leadership qualities of Governor Makinde, which he said have translated to visible development across all sectors in the state. POLL Adejo also promised to extend the awareness of Continous Voter Registration (CVR) to all the non-indigenes’ communities across the state, so that they can participate actively in the upcoming electoral season.