LAGOS – The sustainable backward integration policy of the Federal Government in the nation’s manufacturing sector is redefining Nigeria’s cement industry, Daily Independent can report Apart from the job opportunity, turn over and the huge market share the policy has created, there seems to be new prospects for the cement industry on account of the policy which favours inward reevaluation of processes in the industrial sector to achieve result. One of the cement companies in Nigeria, BUA cement, is already reaping the gains of the policy through planned mass manufacturing of the production and revolutionizing of the cement sector on the long run. -Advertisement- The company said it was not complacent with the huge mark in the sector as it sees it as a genuine turf Nigeria can tread to actualise its industrialization plan. Already, the Federal Government was aware of the company’s impacts and its peers in enabling Nigeria meets cement production mark and exporting same which would impact the country’s Gross Domestic Product. This explains government’s recent commendation BUA Cement Plc for its plan to produce 17million metric tonnes of cement annually, starting from 2023. At the official visit and tour of the BUA Cement Plc factory in Sokoto State, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, appreciated the ways in which the cement company was able to leverage conducive business environment created by the president Muhammadu Buhari-led administration at the federal level to attract more investors into critical sectors of the economy. POLL He explained that the inspection was in continuation of its tour of public and private sector projects that are impacting positively on the lives of the people across the country Others, he listed are the Dangote Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemicals as well as the Dangote Fertilizer in Lagos visited on April 3rd 2022; the Lekki Deep Sea Port in Lagos, which was visited on May 4th 2022 and the Duchess Hospital also in Lagos visited on 10th of May, 2022. He emphasised that all these projects, he stressed, are beneficiaries of the conducive business environment created by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, under the auspices of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), which has implemented over 150 reforms since 2016, as well as the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020(CAMA 2020) – Nigeria’s most significant business legislation in three decades. The result of this favourable business environment is the birth of new businesses such as the 5 Million tonnes per annum(mtpa) BUA Cement here in Sokoto; the $2.5 billion Dangote Fertilizer Plant that will produce 3 million tonnes of Urea every year; the 650,000 barrels per day oil refinery due to open later this year; the Lekki Deep Sea Port, one of the and the 5,000 barrels per day Modumost modern sea ports in West Africa lar Refinery in Ibigwe, Imo State,” he pointed out. He noted that the conditions that have made BUA cement to flourish, especially, since 2015 when the current administration assumed office, include the fact that BUA was granted pioneer status, the ban on importation of cement, government’s divestment from the cement industry and the backward integration policy, adding that, through these, BUA Cement has recorded a 300 per cent increase in production between 2015 and now. From 3.5 million tonnes per annum in 2015 to 11 million tonnes per annum now, he said, the plan of the cement firm to generate 17million metric tonnes of cement annually from 2023 is commendable. “For its part, the sokoto plant is operating at over 90 per cent of installed capacity. Because of its location, which is just 100 kilometers to Niger Republic, the plant exports to Niger and Burkina Faso, earning Nigeria much needed forex,” he emphasized Engineer Yusuf Binji, the Managing Director/CEO, BUA Cement Plc. explained that the plan to increase its production capacity from the current 11million metric tonnes of cement per annum to 17million through its Edo and Sokoto plants, was to ensure its cement product is readily available across the nook and crannies of the country. According to him, BUA Cement remains the largest cement producer in the North West, South South and South Eastern parts of the country and the largest private employer of labour in the North-West. He disclosed that there are 443 permanent staff and that, together with all other ancillary jobs, the company generates about 10,000 direct and indirect jobs in the country. The firm’s Sokoto plant is the first cement plant in Nigeria to use Liquefied Natural Gas to generate 50MW of power, thereby, replacing coal, he added that, this has made the plant environmentally friendly to also curb climate change. On the country’s future plan, he said the company plans to drive revenue and cost synergies across revenue and margin lines; harmonise sales and marketing strategy across the two plants; increase customer portfolio and capture new market areas, including construction of lines 3 & 5 at Okpella and Sokoto plants, respectively, while deploying solutions that enhance customer experience. He added: “We have commenced work on the 70MW gas power plant at Obu in Edo state as well as commenced work on the 70MW gas power plant at Sokoto plant.” Stakeholders in the nation’s manufacturing sector have therefore emphasized the need for the Federal Government to walk the talk on the conducive environment for BUA cement and similar ones to thrive in Nigeria. Muda Yussuf, former Director-General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, commended the Federal Government over backward integrated policy which has given cement companies like BUA desired leverage in the sector. He told Daily Independent that the government should beam its attention on promoting ease of doing business in Nigeria and ensuring that the scary economic indices in the country are humanized. He added: “The government should look at variables that can give BUA and the likes requisite leverage in the market.Cost of doing business is skyrocketing, while inflation and devaluation are some of the elements that have continued to dot Nigeria’s economic landscape. “There are indeed prospects for BUA in the cement industry given its long term plans and the strategies it intends to adopt to put the country’s cement industry on global map. This must be complemented by the degree of government’s enabling policies in the country”. “BUA Group is not afraid of competition in local and international markets because of the significant investments made in the sectors of the economy and will continue to expand across the country. “In October 2019, the BUA Group announced a merger of its two cement subsidiaries, the Cement Company of Northern Nigeria and the Obu Cement Company, in a bid to become the country’s second largest cement producer by volume by 2020. “The deal was concluded in January as BUA Cement listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange with a market capitalisation of N1.2 trillion ($3.3bn). “The BUA Group has invested over $2bn into its cement business over the last four years, which has helped to boost the company’s output”.