YENAGOA – A Niger Delta youth leader and maritime entrepreneur, Mr. Richard Akinaka, has joined his voice to calls from several quarters asking the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, to respect the law establishing the apex bank and resign his appointment. Akinaka in a statement on Monday berated Emefiele for refusing to resign his position while seeking to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He described Emefiele’s behaviour as a violation of ethics and gross misconduct not expected of a public officer occupying the office of the CBN governor. -Advertisement- Akinaka’s reaction came on the heels of reports that three pro-Emefiele groups namely, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, Friends of Emefiele and Emefiele Support Group had last week paid N100m for the APC presidential expression of interest and nomination forms for Emefiele. Though Emefiele had denounced the groups, Akinaka said the CBN governor’s refusal to quit office to pursue his political ambition was an embarrassment to the country while desecrating the law setting up the apex bank. Akinaka pointed out that the country’s poor economy and economic hardship suffered by Nigerians were indications of Emefiele’s monumental failure as CBN governor and lacks the capacity to be president. He said, “Section 9 of the CBN Act, 2007, provides that the governor and the deputy governors shall devote the whole of their time to the service of the bank, and while holding office, shall not engage in any full or part-time employment or vocation, whether remunerated or not.” “Politics is a vocation and the CBN Governor is not allowed by law to engage in partisan politics. It is unthinkable that Emefiele, despite his embarrassing failures of managing the country’s economy still want to further wreck the entire country.” POLL The Niger Delta youth leader argued that it was wrong for Emefiele to be politically exposed, urging the National Assembly to enact a law to effectively prevent public officers from using government resources and influence to fuel their political aspirations. He added, “It is rather unfortunate that he (Emefiele) cannot come out boldly to own up to his aspiration because he doesn’t want to resign from his office and this is the height of immorality and irresponsibility and, for me, this alone should disqualify him. “In any case, what does the CBN Governor Emefiele has to offer to Nigeria seeing the level of the economic woes we have in this country under his watch? What else does he have to offer this country that he has not done?”