*Says Nigeria Almost Becoming Failed State ASABA – Former Senate President and Presidential Aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Bukola Saraki, has said that Nigeria is presently experiencing a critical time and therefore needs a president who is not only a business friendly bridge-builder but a man who is truly courageous to do the needful in order to rescue the country from the precipice. Saraki said that Nigeria is almost becoming a failed State, and stressed the need to choose the a president who will courageously and effectively address the country’s security, economic and social challenges. -Advertisement- Addressing Delta PDP delegates of at Government House Asaba, Saraki noted that there was no denying that the country needs urgent and bold measures to rescue and fix Africa’s most promising country. Saraki said, “There would be dire consequences if we failed at this auspicious time in the nation’s democratic advancement to choose the right person to lead Nigeria out of the woods of insecurity and to put restore her to the trajectory of progress and prosperity”. While promising to be a bridge between the old and young in the country, he urged Nigerians to vote him because widespread suffering and anxiety in the country does not discrimnate between ethnic affinity or religious persuasion. He said that his love for Delta State was strengthened by his close relationship with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, adding that the country needs a leader with capacity who would replicate the excellent performance of Okowa at the centre especially now that the need to diversify the nation’s economy from over-dependence on hydrocarbons. The former senate president said he would act as a bridge-builder in both socio-cultural and economic sense as he could unite the North and South as well as enjoy the confidence of the economy and business operators. POLL “Both Northerners and Southerners are suffering the poverty and insecurity, we have highest level of unemployment today at 33 percent and cost of living is very high. “With the numerous challenges facing our nation today, we need to find people who have the capacity to lead because leadership is key today in this country, you cannot give what you do not have. “There are certain qualities that we need today from the next president, if those qualities are what I have; let us do the right thing and support me. “We need somebody who can unite Nigeria, whom the youths and the old, North and South can be comfortable with. “We need somebody who can bring investments, who the private sector would be comfortable with, somebody who would also have the courage to stand for what is right and take bold decisions when that time comes. “As you all know as entrepreneurs, money only goes to where it sees safety. So, we need a president that is business-friendly, a president that understands the private sector. “I was happy today when I got in to the Asaba Airport and i looked at compared it to about a year ago, you can see the difference and the innovation of the governor in bringing that change. “We need a President that is bold and courageous to take decisions (because) it is not going to be easy because the challenges ahead are enormous. “Devolution of powers is so important, we must be able to restructure this country and give more powers to states. “You need somebody who has the capacity to do that and you all know that to restructure you need constitutional amendments. So, you need somebody with legislative experience that can unite this country. So, whether in the north or south that will be fair to all, and you know that am that person that can unite this country. “When the party needed somebody to reconcile our party members I was brought on board to Chair the National Reconciliation Committee of our great party and today many states have come together because of the work we did. “We need somebody that can bridge the gap between the young and the old. We need somebody that can create jobs and shore up employment and that can only be done through agriculture in diversified setting, through non-reliance on oil. “I have stated this in my manifesto that within twenty-four months, we will earn the same amount we are earning from $30billion dollars from non-oil, whether it is gas, petrochemical. Unless we do that, if we continue to rely on oil we can’t get away from the current challenges. “I am a great team player and we were able hold the National Assembly together because we were able to carry everyone along. Delta is a key state and any aspirant that is serious needs the support of Delta State.” Saraki also commended Governor Okowa for his outstanding achievements in the health sector, saying that he would replicate Okowa’s antecedents when elected president “Currently Nigeria’s Universal Health Coverage is at 7 percent i promised in my manifesto that within 24 months, 50 percent of Nigerians must be covered in the National Health Insurance. “What Gov. Okowa is doing here in Delta is what is needed in the entire country and I have the capacity to do that because it is the right policy for the health sector,” he said. In his remarks, Governor Okowa said that Saraki has all the qualities that we need in a president particularly at this time that Nigeria is confronted by numerous challenges ranging from insecurity and poverty to unemployment. Okowa said that it that the PDP must rise to the challenge of choosing the right leader especially as the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not allow the best candidate to emerge, adding that the country needs a courageous leader who is capable of applying the right solutions to the country’s problems. He noted with happiness the role played by Saraki during the 8th Senate, describing him as a very bold and courageous leader who stoutly defended the independence of the legislature in Nigeria. Okowa said, “Deltans are very knowledgeable people they have heard you and I believe that during the time of discussion it is our prayer that you find favour in the sight of the delegates. “We must congratulate you on the roles you played in the 8th Senate, you showed your capacity and you defended the laws of the land by showing very clearly that you were more interested in Nigeria than yourself as a person. “It is in the PDP you can find such quality of persons with the sincerity, the passion to be able to set out there in the interest of Nigeria. “When we look at the opposing party we see all manner of things going on and we begin to wonder, are we trying to take Nigeria further down? Because even those who have the capacity in that party to probably do the right things for the country, they will not allow them and they are going to ensure that they are suppressed and pushed away but in the PDP we are confident that we are going to throw up our best. In his remarks, the Delta State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Kingsley Esiso, said that Saraki’s antecedents would speak for him, adding that in 2023, Nigeria needs a bold, business-friendly President.