MINNA – Former Vice President Atiku Abubarkar yesterday visited Niger State where he solicited the support of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates ahead of the party’s National Delegates Conference to emerge as the party’s flag bearer ahead of next year’s general election. Atiku wants delegates from Niger state to also support him to emerge the PDP Presidential flag bearer and in returning PDP to power to end the All Progressive Congress (APC) misrule which has caused so much division and distrust amongst the over 250 ethnic groups and regions in Nigeria. The PDP Presidential hopeful told delegates and supporters at the state party secretariat along the eastern by-pass that the only sure way to restore Nigeria to the path of peaceful coexistence is to vote out the APC, ‘because they cannot bring the much-needed peace to Nigerians’. “If you vote for PDP in the 2023 general election there will be change and Nigeria will begin to move forward because the current dispensation has nothing more than what we are witnessing today to offer citizenry”. Atiku Abubarkar recalled years back when PDP was in power and present-day Nigeria and lamented that, Nigerians are not just so much divided but issues of insecurity is shaking the very foundation of the country. The only way out is for Nigerians, according to Atiku Abubarkar is to support real change by voting out the APC because they have nothing more to other Nigerians who can no longer sleep with their two eyes closed due to insecurity and extreme socio-economic challenges. Continuing of APC administration beyond 2023 may not be in the best interest of the country and her citizenry, adding that the only guarantee return of peace, unity and equity for all Nigerians is for PDP to be returned to power. Nigeria has never been so divided, it is fast tilting towards a failed state, Atiku said adding that, “APC has failed to provide jobs for the millions of jobless youths. They can’t unite Nigeria currently sharply divided along ethnic and religious insecurity is getting worst by the day”. Meanwhile, the presence of Senator Dino Melaye, who is part of the entourage of former Vice President Atiku Abubarkar on the visit elicited excitements amongst party supporters as chants of, Dino, Dino enveloped the scene. The order of events to welcome visitors to the party secretariat was temporarily distorted as chants of; Dino, Dino rent the air as Senator Melaye waved in admiration to his supporters who struggled to catch a glimpse of him during the campaign tour of former Vice President Atiku Abubarkar to the ‘Power’ state.