The duo of National Insurance Commission ((NAICOM), and the University of Uyo (UNIUYO) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a view to promoting insurance education and human capital development in Nigeria. At the signing ceremony held in Abuja recently, Mr. Sunday Thomas, the Commissioner for Insurance (CFI) said the Commission has concluded plans to construct insurance department building at the University of Uyo (UNIUYO). He said the Commission will apply “the proceeds of its Education Fund to provide financial assistance to tertiary institutions with a view to promoting insurance education and human capital development in Nigeria”. -Advertisement- Accepting to finance the construction of the building, he noted: “this is a knowledge-based sector and we realized that as the days go by vulnerability increases in which case, we need to develop products that will be able to meet the need of the populace and we need creative ideas”. “We need those who are cerebral to be able to reach out there and package things, products and of course the starting point is to get the knowledge, that is why we are bending backwards to develop the minds that will be able to not only teach, because part of those who are going to be beneficiaries will remain in the institution to teach others, some are going to come into practice, they need that knowledge, that is why we have ventured into this”. Thomas added that NAICOM will be “doing it across the country and we believe that the more of this we do the more people get educated about what insurance is and of course the result will show”. The funding for the building he said will be “given in tranches, the total amount will be determined at the end when the construction is commissioned”. According to him, the financial assistance will be “applied to support tertiary institutions in the areas of: establishment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Centre; scholarship for Master’s and Doctorate degree; provision of text books and journals on insurance and other related fields”. POLL Others include: construction of Administrative and/or Vocational offices (structures); sponsorship of professorial endowments and sponsorship of accreditation for tertiary institutions interested in offering insurance as a course of study. Mr Thomas who did not disclose how much will be spent on the building said the value “is the linkage that is created in human capital development which cannot be quantified”. Professor, Nyaudoh Ndaeyo, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Uyo, also speaking at the event, said University of Uyo is one of the Universities in Nigeria that opted to offer Insurance programme in the university. He said NAICOM graciously offered the University “a helping hand by giving us a building. We are here to sign Memorandum of Understanding and to also show appreciation on our part because they have trained our staff beyond what we have shown to them”.