. Warns Senate President Against Presidential Ambition ABUJA – Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr Garus Gololo, has taken a swipe at the President Muhammadu Buhari led government, insisting that he failed woefully on all fronts. Gololo, in an interview with Daily Independent, bemoaned untold hardship and worsened insecurity since the inception of the administration in 2015. -Advertisement- He said that after eight years in power, the President not only abandoned his campaign promises, but only enriched his ministers and cronies to the detriment of the country. He explained that the government also did not walk its talk on promises to stamp out corruption from the system; adding “as far as I’m concerned, there’s nothing like an anti-corruption fight. “These people are more wicked than kidnappers abducting Nigerians at gun points. They’re the same, only that these ones are armed robbers with the pen. “ can one person have Housing Estates in Canada, the UK and everywhere, while like many Nigerians, I don’t have a block and you expect me to be happy? “The other time, YIAGA Africa wrote something about the National Security Adviser. And why didn’t the President ask him to step down? POLL The least the President would have done was to caution and suspend him to give room for proper investigation.” On the performance of the federal executive council, Dr Gololo said, “as far as I’m concerned, the entire cabinet failed. Not one of them can be considered a success in this administration.” He however commended the administration for successfully stemming bomb blasts in the federal capital territory. This is as he further bemoaned the rise in insecurities in Kaduna and Anambra States respectively. “See, the government failed in security, economy and other areas of the economy. The only area he succeeded is in enriching his ministers and cronies, so much such that persons who previously sold recharge cards and now found themselves around him have become Billionaires, who are even contemplating buying private jets,” the APC Chieftain chipped. While reacting to news of the theft of N80 billion linked to the recently suspended Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmad Idris, the APC Chieftain decried the spate of corruption in ministries, departments and agencies of government nationwide. The outspoken social critic disclosed that both the PDP and the governing APC have so far failed Nigerians.