I like the guts of the Su­per Falcons coach, Ran­dy Waldrum, who has vowed not to lose any of his qualifications match­es ahead of the forthcoming CAF Women Nations Cup. The draws which were re­cently held in Rabat, Moroc­co, where Nigeria was drawn in group “C” with the likes of Bayana – Bayana of South Af­rica, Burundi and Botswana, Waldrum had said, he was go­ing to have victory against all his opponents irrespective of size, country or experience! Honestly, I like coaches who talk tough and walk their talk. The interesting thing in this group not considered as a group of death has been viewed by the foreign man­ager of the Falcons as oppo­nents easily to come by with, given his calculations and permutations. Any good coach worth his onions, no doubt, could well place himself in the shoes of this American coach. I remembered vividly when Coach Clemens Westerhof had to tell late Air Captain Emeka Emeruah, the for­mer minister of sports, that he was going to win all his preliminary matches in Tu­nisia ’94 and go-ahead to lift the Unity Cup. -Advertisement- That task Westerhof ac­complished and proceeded to USA’94 where he eventu­ally showcased his coaching skills in the Mundial even as a neophyte of the world cup championship. He, however, in US ’94 wrote the name of Nigeria on the global map of world football. His sterling record with the Super Eagles hitherto remains unbeaten till tomorrow! So many coaches of this wits and guts of confidence over their teams to succeed above all odds most times can be for real, using Westerhof and Bonfrere Jo for instance in Nigeria. Thomas Dennerby was also a good one, though he has exited the soil of Ni­geria for good but how I wish if this “wish” from Waldrum could be horses, he thinks beggars would ride, as one adage goes. It should not be wishful thinking on the coach that he’s going to surmount every opponent that is seed­ed in his group. If he’s able to achieve this self-set target, Waldrum would have indeed arrived in Nigeria for the real female football business. Ni­gerians are eager to see their female team bounce back to reckoning once again in the continent of Africa. This is the very first time, the Nigerian football feder­ation Is replacing a foreign coach with another foreign coach. Although, before his employment, there have been serious political turmoil in the federation and the sports ministry over which local coach should inherit the bat­tered and beaten Falcons; cou­pled with ugly stories of none payment or short payment of allowances, bonuses and the crucial embarrassment of eviction players from hotel rooms over delayed payment of their accommodations. So, there were these natural cases and issues of indiscipline and lack of respect towards each other amongst players and officials, and the creation of divisions among teammates became a nightmare for the Falcons. And as the COVID – 19 pandemic started ravaging the world; the Falcons were left to fate without a coach and without leadership. The female team was like “Thank You” Coronavirus for keeping us inactive. The Falcons became match rusty, not that they could not have been doing some light train­ing like their counterparts abroad who had gradually resumed football business but because there was no sub­stantive coach, the Falcons no longer hear the Falconer and the centre could no longer hold; this was after the exit of coach Dennerby. It took a long time before Waldrum was contracted in a dotted agreement that looked shady to Nigerians, however, so far so good, time and tide will tell the rest of the story as Waldrum progresses with the Falcons! The Falcons became a household name when female football was invented in Afri­ca. The female league across West Africa was like elemen­tary school games as most of the women came on board with protruded stomachs, big boobs and buttocks, who dominated the scene then, showcasing African beauty with football. POLL We watched them with en­thusiasm, joy and laughter as they kicked and follow the ball with no focus on un­derstanding the game, how­ever, during this period, the Nigerian women were more purposeful and determined with our various indigenous coaches who ruled Africa; and like it was their birth­right to qualify and win the championship each time it was staged. Today, the game has devel­oped with so many of these African damsels now plying their trade professionally in Europe, America and Asia do­ing exploits in their various clubs as it were. Nigeria, no longer dominate the space as some other African countries have caught up with the game and no country in Africa in female football can be taken for granted. I say this because to be forewarned is to be forearmed. Waldrum should watch his game, his players, formation, tactical approach and ideological discipline of the game on the pitch and out of the pitch. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good morning Nigeria!