Sequel to the submission of the APC Nomination and Expression of Interest forms by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, a female support and advocacy group, S.M.A.R.T Women, has appealed to delegates who would be voting in the forthcoming APC presidential primary, at the end of this month, to elect the Professor of Law by giving him the majority of votes. The female group, which had been canvassing for the election of the Vice President as substantive President, come 2023, said it has become evidently clear that Osinbajo is the man Nigerians had been waiting for, as such, the delegates should not miss the opportunity in abiding by the wishes of Nigerians. In a statement issued shortly after Osinbajo submitted his Nomination and Expression of Interest forms in Abuja, the co-conveners of S.M.A.R.T Women for PYO, Mrs Folake Aina and Bunmi Oke, said it is only right that the delegates should listen to voice of wisdom and not cut short the wishes of the people. -Advertisement- The women also urged the leadership of the party to ensure that a level playing field is granted to all contestants and let the votes of the delegates count. “It is not only unfortunate that some aspirants are just in the race to test waters but it is also highly ridiculous that some of them are withdrawing even before the contest. “While Osinbajo is working very hard, crisscrossing the length and breadth of Nigeria, a lot of others are waiting to be served a la carte. “It is not in doubt that Osinbajo is the most qualified, most suitable and most prepared for the top job, having been in the saddle for seven years and learnt the ropes. “His loyalty to his principal, his passion and dedication for the job and his commitment and patriotism towards a united Nigeria are unparalleled. POLL “Nigeria does not need a greenhorn that will learn on the job. Our country needs someone that will hit the ground running. “And this is why we think it is in the best interest of everybody that the highly cerebral lawyer cum administrator is elected as the candidate of the APC. “Allowing delegates to go through the rigours of a 48-hour contest as we witnessed in 2014 at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos, without coming out with an acceptable candidate for the party may not help the APC’s course. “It is in the light of this that we passionately appeal the delegates to please use their good conscience in ensuring that a good man, who is the hope of Nigeria emerges. “We all know that the VP will definitely emerge the President of Nigeria in a free, fair and credible election, so why waste time in making him the APC candidate? “It is in the light of these facts, that we are asking the leadership of the APC and all the delegates to vote Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as their preferred candidate and also announce him as the lawful custodian of the party’s ticket “, the statement reads.  