…Says Current Escalation Of Violence Maybe Ploy To Extend Buhari’s Tenure ABUJA – The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorcha Ayu, has disclosed that in the next eight days Nigerians will know their next President. Speaking while playing host to the European Union delegation, which visited the party National Working Committee (NWC), Ayu said that the current escalation of violence in the country maybe a ploy to extend the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari. -Advertisement- Decrying the low registration of voters in the country by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the PDP National Chairman noted that it is not just the mobilization by the political parties, but also the technical capacity of the commission to go out there and register Nigerians. Ayu said that Nigerians expect that 40% of its population should be captured on the electoral register, lamenting that “I think what we have today is less than 5% and it’s not good eough.” He appealed to the European Union to ensure that the All Progressives Congress (APC) government concede defeat when it lost the next election, adding, “they are going to lose the next election. They shouldn’t hang in there and create an atmosphere of instability in the country.” He said: “The current escalation of violence in the country we hope, and we pray, that is not deliberately been orchestrated to extend the tenure of this administration which has failed the country. “We hope that when they lose, they also will willingly concede defeat, and hand over power to the Nigerian people. POLL “We know that in the next eight days, we will know the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria because once the delegates in our political party cast their vote, and the pronouncement is made on who is the candidate of the PDP, we will not be calling him the candidate of the PDP, we will be calling him the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Lamenting the situation in the country, Ayu said, “today, we are the worst borrowed country in the world, in trillions. It is our hope that this will not continue because it has a direct impact on the Nigerian people. “The lack of employment opportunities, lack of attention to even education, lack of attention to industrialization. “This has worsened the condition of appeal, particularly the youth. These are areas as a party we’re interested in addressing when we come back to power because we believe Nigerians will vote for the Peoples Democratic Party in the next election. But for that to happen, we believe that the electoral umpire has to be credible. “It is true our INEC may be doing its best but we still think they can do better. Registration of voters in Nigeria is very low. And it is not just the mobilization by the political parties, but it is also the technical capacity of INEC to go out there and register Nigerians because, in a population of almost 200 million people, we expect that 40% of the population will be captured on the electoral register and that is not the case. “I think what we have today is less than 5% and it’s not good enough. We want to call on INEC and all our friends that can help in that direction to make sure that more people are captured on the electoral register. “I would want to draw the attention of the European Union and all our friends to the fact that we want free and fair elections in the country, the signals that we’re getting are not very encouraging. “Today, insecurity is at its peak and extending beyond the rural areas and even coming to the urban centres. “We are worried about post-elections as a political party. We have demonstrated that democracy is best when you transit smoothly from one electoral cycle to the other.” Earlier, the European Union Ambassador in Nigeria, Samuela Isopi said that their visit is part of the consultations and engagement the European Union is having with all stakeholders and the actors of the electoral process. The EU restated its commitment as a strong partner with Nigeria and the Nigerian people, since the return of civil rule in 1999. “European Union has been supporting the country in strengthening its democratic governance through the support to all the stakeholders, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as well as to the other actors and players of the process of the society, the media and the political parties. “We have also at the request of the Nigerian authorities always deployed electoral observation to entrench the process of democracy. “This is part of our regular consultations with all the stakeholders, actors and partners, particularly in view of the next elections and I would like to reaffirm our support for Nigeria’s democracy and we will continue to work together with all the institutions and stakeholders involved.”