Raheem Sterling would have to backtrack on a promise he made years ago if he is to seal a summer switch to either Arsenal or Tottenham. The prolific Manchester City forward is entering the final year of his contract, with speculation mounting the England international could be allowed to depart in the upcoming transfer window. Sterling has established himself as a key player under Pep Guardiola since making the controversial move from Liverpool in 2015, and has so far lifted four Premier League titles, five League Cups and a solitary FA Cup. However, City have reportedly held off on making a decision over the 27-year-old until the summer, potentially opening the door to a deal. North London rivals Arsenal and Tottenham have both been heavily linked with moves for Sterling, with the teams currently battling it out for a place in next season’s Champions League. Antonio Conte’s side will host the Gunners on Thursday night, with the result potentially decisive in determining who secures a top-four finish. -Advertisement- Sterling began his career in the capital with Queens Park Rangers before making his senior breakthrough with Liverpool. However, the winger’s previous response to questions over his future hints he would not be keen on a return to London. Speculation over Sterling’s future has regularly surfaced in recent seasons, with the attacker previously enduring spells out of Guardiola’s starting eleven. Links away from City were put to the forward in an interview in December 2017, and he admitted he could one day be tempted to move overseas. Sterling told the Mail on Sunday: “I’m happy at Man City. But nobody knows what the future brings so one day, definitely, it would be nice to play abroad. It would be a great experience. Spain’s attractive. Anywhere the weather is nice really!” However, Sterling’s stance on a possible return to London was far more clear, with the winger distancing himself from the prospect of signing for any club in the capital. He added: “Nah, can’t be in London. I can’t be near my friends. They got to stay down there.” City will look to restore their three-point cushion over Liverpool in the Premier League’s thrilling title race when they travel to Wolves on Wednesday night. Sterling netted a brace in their five-goal thrashing of Newcastle United at the weekend, taking his tally to 16 goals in 45 appearances this season.