IBADAN – Mammoth Crowd of excited party faithful and supporters of former National Assembly member, Honourable Dada Awoleye besieged the Ibadan North venue of the former lawmaker’s official declaration to seek the people’s mandate to return to the green chamber on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The crowd, largely of PDP members carried placards and wore different customized T-shirts with various souvenirs of the party containing pictures of Honourable Awoleye were seen chanting “Awoleye4Rep” along Yemetu road leading to the meeting venue causing mild traffic gridlock on the axis as commuters struggled to drive pass the crowd. The former federal lawmaker who according to some party loyalists remains one of the big political rallying figures in Ibadan North was the former Special Adviser on State Primary Healthcare to the Oyo state Governor, Seyi Makinde before resigning his appointment to seek a return back to the National Assembly. -Advertisement- Addressing the crowd of excited party faithful who thronged out to show their support for Awoleye who has been touted by party leaders and stakeholders as the favourite to clinch the PDP ticket for the federal house of representatives following his remarkable political antecedents and records, the former Makinde’s aide assured that victory is certain for the ruling party come 2023. Speaking on Wednesday, May 4 at the Ibadan North venue of the party’s local government meeting, Awoleye lamented the poor representation of the incumbent who he accused of having no bill sponsored to his credit since about three years in Office stressing that a man who has failed in his primary legislative mandate does not deserve another chance. As part of his achievements while in office as a federal lawmaker representing Ibadan North between 2011 and 2019, Awoleye highlighted his achievements to include several personally sponsored bills and motions as well as facilitation of employment for constituency members in both state and federal civil service. The political aspirant who is a diehard lover of sport and proprietor of Pacesetter Football Club said there is no part of Ibadan North from wards 1–12 where his impacts were not being felt while in office and even after leaving office as a federal lawmaker. He added that if given the mandate to fly the PDP ticket at the 2023 general election, he would use his wealth of political experience and sport as a critical driving tool to productively engage talented unemployed youths in his constituency to drastically curb youths restiveness. POLL He also assured that no fewer than 50 students from the Ibadan North federal constituency will be placed on bursary awards which shall be sustained annually. He added that the bursary, which include school fees, feeding, hostel and other student upkeep will absolve parents of beneficiaries of all forms of financial commitments for the period of the bursary awards. Commending Governor Seyi Makinde for providing the desired kind of political leadership for both mainstream and upcoming politicians, Awoleye said it is only obligatory for PDP party flag bearers at the polls after winning elections to duly complement the efforts of the Governor by reducing the huge burden and responsibilities resting on the shoulders of the Governor alone. Awoleye, while speaking on his agenda for youth employment and women empowerment, said his office as a federal lawmaker will create a micro, small, and medium-scale vocational training and empowerment centre where constituency members will be able to have access to start-up capital after training. In his words, “Next year, parents of the scholarship scheme beneficiaries should remove their financial obligations to the students from their commitments as I will fully take responsibility for the selected fifty persons every year. “If we talk about the youths who are into vocational works and trading, I assure you that we will provide you with empowerment funds to support you to either start up a viable business or boost an existing one requiring financial support. If it is vocational work, we will provide equipment for you also for immediate start-up. “What is paramount to me more, which actually prompted me to seek for your mandate back to the National Assembly, is facilitating employment opportunities for my people in Ibadan North into both federal and state civil service, government agencies and parastatals. “I understand that even in our great party today there are so many youths even more elderly ones without jobs who are graduates of various tertiary institutions. I’m assuring you by the grace of God and your full support that as I have done in the past while in office, I will do again and even more. “When we held our last youth summit, I was happy to see a number of those who are gainfully employed in various government agencies including the NIPOST, Immigration Service, Federal Road Safety Corps, National Identity Management Commission, National Population Commission, Federal Inland Revenue Service, National Assembly Service Commission and other agencies which are all facilitated by me. “Write and note down everything I have said to you today so you can hold me by my words because I’m assuring you that I shall fulfill my promises to the latter. This time around I’m seeking your mandate to go to Abuja, I want to go there to bring home what rightly belongs to you from the federal government. “The records are there in public domain about all the bills and motions I sponsored while in Abuja as a lawmaker but the one there now has not done one, if he has, let him come public with it and tell us. This is their third year in office yet there’s nothing to show for the mandate given him. He failed in his primary legislative duties as well as in other areas of expectations by the good people of the Ibadan North federal constituency. You clearly deserve far better,” Awoleye stated. He assured that he will vigorously support others who are supporting the creation of State Police as the best way out of this security quagmire the nation is grappling with. He said, “Governor Seyi Makinde and his colleagues from the South-West have tried their best by providing Amotekun Corp but that can not solve our security problems because they’re not in the mainstream and as such are very limited in terms of adequate security training, access to arms and ammunition and other key areas of capacity building to deliver.”