Auwal Musa (Rafsanjani), Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, and Head of Transparency International (Nigeria), talks to SYLVESTER ENOGHASE about the anti-corruption war embarked on by the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), particularly in its advocacy for collaborative partnership by relevant stakeholders in ensuring that a comprehensive beneficial Ownership Register is created across sectors of the economy, and what the advocacy campaign entails. Excerpt: As a committed fighter against corruption, and given the activities been carried out by the Civils Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) in the recent time, it is obvious that you are advocating for collaborative partnership by relevant stakeholders across sectors of the economy to adopt the campaign strategy that focuses on beneficialownershipasawayoffightingcorruption. Can you throw insight to what Beneficiary Ownership Transparency is all about? Yes, you are absolutely right. -Advertisement- First and foremost, a beneficial owner is a person who enjoys the benefits of ownership even though the title to some form of property is in another name. It also means any individual or group of individuals who, either directly or indirectly, has the power to vote or influence the transaction decisions regarding a specific security, such as shares in a company. A beneficial owner is a person who enjoys the benefits of ownership; though the property’s title is in another name, and it is distinguished from legal ownership, though in most cases, the legal and beneficial owners are one and the same. Publicly traded securities are often registered in the name of a broker for safety and convenience. Also, wealthy individuals at risk of lawsuits often use trusts to act as the legal property owner. POLL Like you rightly mentioned, it has been a focal point in our activities in the recent time. For instance, we recently organised a one-day sentitisation campaign in Lagos as we believe collaborative efforts will help give a voice to, and curb corruption in the country’s financial, procurement and other strategic sectors, and contribute effectively to domestic revenue mobilisation for financing development of critical sectors of the economy. What informs CISLAC’ prioritisation on the anti-corruption fight in the area of Beneficiary Ownership at this time? To answer your question, let me say it encourages corruption, so much that illicit financial outflows are perpetually growing on a geometric progression by each passing year, costing Nigeria around $17 billion annually, with special emphasis on the oil and gas industry. In fact, as long as wrong incentives and dysfunctional supervision dominate the national financial systems, consequences in the form of terrorism, financing, trans-national organised crime, tax evasion and illegal enrichment of politically exposed persons will prevail. As to the urgency in this context or priotisation as you put it, we were already facing some sanctions from the European Union (EU) for the non-existence of anti-money laundering legislations; while we see and hear of prosecutions of Individuals and entities involved in the Panama papers leaks and the WikiLeaks among others, there seems to be no legal framework that enables the convictions of all that was involved from Nigeria; aside from the fear of the international community. It is worthy of note here that concealing of the beneficial owners’ costs lives of our fellow countrymen as terrorists use international financial systems to sustain their operations without transparent ownership of Nigerian and international companies operating within the Nigerian jurisdiction. We will not be able to stop the bleeding through illicit financial outflows which are progressively increasing year on year. Can you say achievements have being made since the Nigerian Government made commitments to strengthen anti-corruption reforms and joined the Open Government Partnership, OGP in July 2016 in a bid to deepen institutional and policy reforms? Let me leave this for your judgement, at least from the prism of the fact that one of the commitments within the anti-corruption agenda in the consolidation of existing and new reforms, was the establishment of a Public Central Register of Beneficial Owners of companies. It would be recalled in this parley that six years after the commitment, Nigeria just recently crossed the first bridge which is having the CAMA amended to support the beneficial ownership registry establishment. While legitimate corporate businesses have an integral role in national development, the involvement of politically exposed persons who conceal corruptly acquired wealth through the complex networks of companies deliberately created to hide their identities, has further increased the risks they pose to non-fortified economies. The Siemens, Halliburton and Malabu oil scandals, to cite a few high-profile cases, had a net impact on revenue leakages that was unbearable for the country’s finances and the citizens’ economic well-being. As it is obvious that the war is yet to be won, what suggestion can you proffer on the way forward? To all of us at CISLAC, it is expedient for all relevant stakeholders in the oil and gas sector to form a strong alliance against the menace, particularly in making sure that the beneficial ownership register being compiled by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) sees the light of the day. In fact, a very cohesive synergy by stakeholders is needed in this fight as it is very clear that corruption has been a major inhibitor of Nigeria’s economic growth, discouraging domestic and foreign investment and destabilising governments. All of us at CISLAC emphasise the importance of transparency to prevent the legitimate financial and legal infrastructure from being used to disguise and move the proceeds of corruption. Our fight in this instance is to ensure that registers are put in place to a large extent across sectors, as part of Nigeria’s commitments to more transparent and more accountable governance. Canyoutellusaboutthestatusoftheregister thathasbeingcreatedintheextractivesector of the economy? The register has been put together in the extractive sector as part of Nigeria’s commitments to more transparent and more accountable governance. Specifically, the register is in line with Requirement 2.5 of the 2019 EITI Standard, which stipulates that by 1st January 2020 all EITI-implementing countries (which includes Nigeria) are expected to “maintain a publicly available register of the beneficial owners of the corporate entity (ies) that bid for, operate or invest in extractive assets, including the identity (ies) of their beneficial owner(s), the level of ownership and details of how ownership or control is exerted. The register also aligns with the Country Statement by President Muhammadu Buhari at the 12th May 2016 London Anti-Corruption Summit where Nigeria committed to establishing a public beneficial ownership registry of all companies operating in the country. This presidential commitment was further encapsulated in Nigeria’s National Action Plan for the Open Government Partnerships (OGP). Whatarethebenefitsthatarederivablefrom, or rather inherent in the register? It helps to know the real human beings who own, benefit from and exercise control over extractive assets. Additionally, beneficial ownership disclosure can help in limiting corrupt practices and abuse of office, improving government revenues, citizen welfare and national security, and in leveling the playing field and reducing reputational risks for businesses. Hidden ownership of extractive assets is not always illegal and not always designed for sinister purposes. But, more often than not, anonymous ownership masks abuse of office and conflict of interests and enables tax evasion, illicit financial flows, money laundering, drug and terrorism financing. The register is designed to insulate the country, its citizens and the legitimate businesses operating in the extractive sector from the hazards of corporate anonymity. Entries in the register are from the beneficial ownership templates used for NEITI’s industry audit reports over time. The register is searchable by companies, assets and individual names. We were told that it will be continuously updated as more information becomes available. Eventually, the register will feed into the more expansive beneficial ownership registers for the oil and gas sector, the mining sector, and for all companies in Nigeria being spearheaded respectively by the Department for Petroleum Resource (DPR) the Mining Cadaster Office (MCO) and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). While the efforts of NEITI are commendable for establishing an extractive sector register, legitimate corporate businesses also have an integral role to play in ensuring the effectiveness of the register. This is as legitimate corporate businesses have an integral role in national development. Again, don’t forget that the involvement of Politically Exposed Persons (PEP), who conceal corruptly acquired wealth through the complex networks of companies deliberately created to hide their identities, has further increased the risks they pose to non-fortified economies. The Siemens, Halliburton, and Malabu oil scandals, to cite a few high-profile cases, had a net impact on revenue leakages that were unbearable for the country’s finances and the citizens’ economic well-being.