LAGOS – The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams has decried the use of human parts for money rituals, saying such is alien to Yoruba culture and traditions. He stated this on Monday, while delivering a speech at the 2022 edition of Wealth Festival (Odun Aje), which held at the Powerline Praying Ground in Orile Agege area of Lagos. Adams while stating that he had in recent times, monitored the various stories of ritual abuse and money-making across Southwest, explained that there was urgent need to speak up against the barbaric act, especially, among the youths. -Advertisement- He stated further that in Yorubaland and in every part of the world, killing a person for ritual is an abomination, sacrilegious, and against the norms of the Yoruba race. The Oodua People’s Congress National Coordinator (OPC), maintained that the issue of using human parts for money making is against Yoruba practices and at variance with the ethos of Omoluabi and therefore, everyone should rise against it. According to him, “It is sad though that our society has lost its core values. What we see today is a complete departure from the original practice and ethos of Yoruba race. “As the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, it is time for me to speak up and express my displeasure at the ugly narratives that have literally turned Yorubaland into an abattoir, where human parts usually littered the entire communities. “Things cannot continue like this. We are at the centre of all these and we must speak against this ugly trend. All our royal fathers in Yoruba land should speak up.” POLL Speaking on the need to educate the Nigerian youth on staying away from this ugly trend, Adams said, “We will need to educate the youths of these days about the core values of hard work and reward. We will need to educate them that it is inhuman to kill human beings for ritual purposes. “We will need to educate them about the dignity of labour and the essence of preserving their names and that of their parents. We will need to educate them about the sanctity of our culture and traditions. We will need to teach them about how to respect the elderly. We must teach them about morality and the need to stay away from acts that could render them useless in the future. “The society has lost the battle to instill morality in the minds of the youths. And as I have said earlier, it is quite unfortunate that the social media has done a lot in killing all the values and teachings that could enhance societal values and behaviours. “Therefore, it is our duties as leaders to preach the gospel of truth. The law enforcement agencies also have to play their statutory roles in enforcing the laws. We must not shy away from our roles and responsibilities to curb this societal menace. “In a society where we seek progress, there’s need for us to retrace our steps and work towards correcting the societal ills. “Yorubas are a blessed race. We have everything working for us as a race. But until we address the issues collectively, we will live to regret the sad reality of our failed society,” he stated. Speaking on the reason for celebrating the Wealth Festival, the OPC National Coordinator said, “it is to appreciate the deity in charge of wealth creation. It is also to explore the natural joy and abundant fortunes that wealth symbolises. “For instance, in the spiritual realm, wealth is one of the most powerful deities. It is in control of everything that is good or bad. This is one of the reasons for celebrating Wealth Festival (Odun Aje). “So, as we celebrate the festival today,we are also advancing the cause of promoting our cultural identity.We are aligning with the spirit of wealth and at the same time seeking abundant blessings and wealth from the spiritual realm,” Adams added.