Director General, Global Centre For Conscious Living Against Corruption, Dr Nwambu Gabriel, on Thursday absolved Senator Bassey Otu, a Governorship aspirant in Cross River State of any wrongdoing while working with his former employer, Mercantile Bank of Nigeria Plc. The group was reacting to a petition, dated May 14, addressed to the state screening committee of the APC, Cross River purportedly signed by one Bala Dakum alleging that Senator Otu had been convicted of fraud while working with his former employer, Mercantile Bank of Nigeria Plc. Sequel to the determination of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to combat corruption in Nigeria, the group, a Coalition of 13 Anti-Corruption CSOs, decided to conduct a clinical, very thorough, independent verification and fact-finding exercise to ascertain the veracity and facts of the grave allegation. -Advertisement- Consequently, the coalition said its findings revealed “That the name of the individual who purportedly signed the petition was nonexistent and with a fabricated address. “That Senator Edet Otu was never accused of any allegation bothering on fraud, was never convicted, and therefore has not contravened section 182 (e) as alleged by the ghost petitioner. “That Senator Bassey Edet Otu served his former employer meritoriously before he resigned his appointment to venture into politics, and was even bestowed with a meritorious service award by his former employer for his exemplary conduct and dedication to duty. “That Senator Otu has contested election in 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019 respectively, and has been consistently screened by all the relevant agencies of Government” the group stated. ‘The group said the fiction exists only in the mind of the author of the petition which was “orchestrated, premeditated, designed to mutilate the impeccable integrity of Senator Bassey Edet Otu who has served this nation meritoriously, performed creditably well, and has made his mark in banking and public service respectively. POLL “In other words, Otu should be commended for his selfless and exemplary leadership style” the group stated.  Dr Gabriel, therefore, enjoined Nigerians and indeed all persons aspiring for public positions of trust to face the realities of politics rather than the “Pull Him Down Syndrome” which is inimical to deepening democracy in Nigeria but sadly has dominated our political space. The group disclosed that Senator Otu has served as a two-term Member of the House of Representatives for Calabar Municipal/Odukpani between May 2003 and May 2011, as well as a Senator representing the Southern Senatorial District of Cross River State from June 2011 to June 2015.