Two factions in the Ebonyi State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday held parallel congresses to elect a 3-man delegate ahead of the party’s primary elections billed for this Month. Our Correspondents gathered that the Panel set up by the national leadership of the party for the Congress had divided interests that led to polarization. Three out of the five-man Central Panel for the Congress was said to have aligned with Senator Obinna Ogba’s faction, while the local government returning officers for the Congress aligned with the PDP State chairman’s faction, said to have the backing of Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, who is a governorship aspirant. -Advertisement- Mr Obinna Ogba is the incumbent Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial zone and governorship aspirant on the platform of the PDP. Speaking with Journalists, Senator Obinna Ogba said there was no parallel 3-man delegate Congress in the State, as there were no two committees set up by the national leadership of the party for the exercise. He said the Committee Chairman, Hon Calistus Anyanwu distributed materials for the exercise to the Local government returning officers in front of the entrance gate of the State PDP Secretariat Saturday morning, because, according to him, Security agents deployed to the Secretariat refused to allow them access. Ogba said the exercise would be peaceful and transparent and expressed hope that every member of the party would accept the outcome. He said, “The congress is now ongoing in 171 wards across the State. As you are aware, this is the third time we have tried to do this congress and one thing or the other will disrupt it, but we thank God that today, it’s finally being conducted. I hope that at the end of the day, it will be very successful. POLL “I believe strongly that the outcome of the congress will be successful and acceptable to all members. On whether the national leadership of the party constituted two panels for the exercise, Ogba said, “Our party can never do that and they will never do that. We have only one committee for this congress from the national. Remember that the national leadership of the party disbanded the committee that conducted that last congress that was cancelled and constituted a new five-man committee for today’s Congress. “So, there is nothing like two committees for the Congress. It was the the chairman of the panel, Hon Calistus Anyanwu, and his members who came to the party Secretariat to distribute the material this morning, but the entrance gate of the State PDP Secretariat was barricaded by security men who could not allow them inside, and they stayed in front of the Secretariat to distribute the materials for the Congress”, he added. On his part, the State Publicity Secretary of PDP, Mr Nwoba Chika, said the party received local government returning officers for the Congress innthe Secretariat who later addressed the party members before leaving to the LGAs for the exercise. Nwoba said, “The Local government returning officers for the Congress were in the party Secretariat where the met with party members and displayed the result sheets they came with for everybody to see, before the left for the LGAs for the Congress. “As I talk with you now the exercise is ongoing and we hope it will be peaceful and successful. Asked whether he knew that another group was holding a similar Congress for the PDP in the State, he said, “I am not aware that anybody distributed materials apart from the one distributed few hours ago. “If anybody was in possession of any material before now, I may not be aware but they displayed the one they came with (referring to the local government returning officers) and we believe that that’s the most authentic one. “I believe that at the end, the result will be collected and it will please every member of PDP in the State”, he concluded.