LAGOS  – The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), has averred that it would tighten it’s noose against terminal operators operating at the nation’s seaports in order to make them take major responsibilities in port infrastructure development and rehabilitation. Mohammed Bello-Koko, Managing Director, NPA, made the disclosure in Lagos at the weekend. This was as he announced the expiration of concession agreements between the federal government and five terminal operators operating at the nation’s seaports. -Advertisement- Bello-Koko, while speaking in a chat with newsmen in Lagos, disclosed that the terminal operators whose lease agreement have expired include; ENL Consortium, operator of terminal C and D, at the Lagos ports complex, Apapa; Josepdam Port Service Limited, operator of terminal 1, 1a and 2; Port and Cargo, operator of terminal 6,7,7a, 8 and Five Star Logistics Ltd, operator of terminal 9 and 10 at the Tin-Can Island Port and AMS Terminal, Delta state. He said the Federal Government would secure commitment from terminal operators whose lease agreement have expired and others on the rehabilitation of the dilapidated and decayed port infrastructure. According to him, the government have extended the lease agreement by another six months, and working on a new agreement on development of key infrastructure and decayed infrastructure. He said that the authority had started working on the rehabilitation of port infrastructure with the right marine equipment in place. “We have very old ports, one of the major problems is the decayed infrastructure; TinCan Island is practically collapsing and so we decided to focus our budget toward the rehabilitation of key ones. POLL “What we have done was to start talking to lending agencies, we have started talking to terminal operators who have operated within 10 to 15 years that their leases are about to expire, on how much they will put back. “For their leases to be renewed, they need to contribute to the development of the ports. If they don’t, we will give them to someone or borrow for them to be rehabilitated. But the rates to be paid will go up. “If we don’t do that they will keep managing those places,” he said. He added: “there are five concession agreement that have expired and each of them have different dates, but at the point of expiration, the then legal agreement said they can apply and they will just renew. But, unfortunately, after the concession agreement the Infrastructure Commission Regulatory Commission (ICRC), act came up and the ICRC act required that there should be a new tender and a bid. “You see that there is a conflict and the minister said, incidentally these terminals are in the worse state, what are they going into now is that NPA requested their development plans and we had to go to ICRC to get certification and so on and so forth.”