ABAKALIKI – The All Progressives Congress (APC) 2023 governorship Aspirant in Ebonyi State, Engr Elias Mbam, has alleged plots by the agents of Ebonyi State government to scuttle the governorship primaries scheduled for Thursday, May, 26th, 2022, in the State. A statement signed by Engr Paul Okorie on behalf of Destiny 2023 Campaign Council on Wednesday, and available to our Correspondent in Abakaliki, Mbam alleged that Governor Umahi’s elder brother, Barrister Roy Umahi had allegedly dragged the APC to the Federal High Court Abakaliki, to scuttle the scheduled gubernatorial primary in Ebonyi State. According to him, taking the Party to Court is against the laid down rules of the party that all aggrieved members should first explore and exhaust all the Party’s internal conflict resolution mechanisms to address any such grievances. -Advertisement- Mbam who recently resigned his position as Chairman, Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) further alleged that credible intelligence available to his campaign council, was that agents of Ebonyi state government had procured armed thugs from Enugu, Abia, Cross River and Rivers States, in liaison with the local vigilante (Ebubeagu Security Network) with the plan to attack and cause mayhem at the venue of the scheduled gubernatorial primary to ensure that it did not hold and prevent perceived opponents from attending. The statement reads, “It has come to the knowledge of the Destiny 2023 Campaign Council, the campaign organization of Engr. Elias Mbam, of the plans to scuttle the gubernatorial primary election in Ebonyi State scheduled to hold tomorrow, Thursday 26th May 2022 by agents of Ebonyi State government. “You will recall that the governor of Ebonyi State, Engr. David Umahi endorsed the embattled Speaker as his preferred gubernatorial aspirant against the wishes of the generality of Ebonyians and the party. In his failed attempt to arm-twist and force the All Progressives Congress to accept Mr Nwifuru and close up the political space against all other aspirants in the state, the governor has now decided to rock the boat and destroy the party in Ebonyi state by use of nefarious means. “Today, Wednesday 25th May 2022, the governor of Ebonyi State, Engr. David Umahi, through his lawyer, Bar. Roy Umahi, who is also the state retainer and the governor’s immediate elder brother, took the All Progressives Congress to the Federal High Court Abakaliki, to scuttle the scheduled gubernatorial primary in Ebonyi, against the laid down rules of the party that all aggrieved members should first explore and exhaust all the Party’s internal conflict resolution mechanisms to address any such grievances. “Credible intelligence available to us alleges that agents of Ebonyi state government and those working for the embattled Speaker has procured armed thugs from Enugu, Abia, Cross River and the Rivers States, some of which are already in the state, in liaison with his local vigilante (Ebubeagu Security Network) with the plan to attack and cause mayhem at the venue of the gubernatorial primary tomorrow to ensure that it does not hold and prevent perceived opponents from attending. POLL “We, therefore, call on the National Chairman and the leadership of the All Progressives Congress to take note of the antics of Governor David Umahi and his desperate efforts to destroy our party in Ebonyi which may cause the PDP to have an easy win come 2023. “We plead with the security agencies, especially the Nigeria Police, the Department of State Security Services, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and the Nigeria Military to take notice and ensure that the life and safety of Engr. Elias Mbam, other aspirants, their supporters, party faithful and delegates are guaranteed and protected.” Reacting in a telephone, the State Chairman of the APC in the State, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, debunked the allegations and described them as unfounded. The Chairman alleged that Mbam was plotting to set the state on fire, but assured State the government would not allow anybody, no matter his highly placed to destroy existing the peace in the State. He said, “How can Ebonyi State government import thugs? Elias Mbam went and mobilized no sense thugs from different parts of the country, he wants to set this State on fire but God will not allow him. “I remember him in my prayer, because he is a member of the APC and we can’t afford to lose somebody like him, but at the same time, we won’t allow him destroy our party. It’s impossible. “How can we bring thugs from outside the state, a seating government? What is it that we don’t have? One good assurance I want to give to Elias Mbam is that those thugs he brought into the state will not go unpunished. “So, by tomorrow, we shall know the people that brought thugs.” Also reacting, Governor’s elder brother, Barrister Roy Umahi, denied having a hand in the alleged plot to scuttle the APCgovernorship primaries in Ebonyi State. “Tell him to prove what he is saying. I’m not a politician, let them face their profession. I have no interest in interfering in their affairs. Thank you,” Barrister Roy Umahi said.