Abuja – Measures to boost health delivery in Nigeria has seen President Muhammadu Buhari signing into law, the recently passed National Health Insurance Authority Bill 2022, repealing thereby, the National Health Insurance Scheme Act, Cap N42, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. This is coming as President Buhari on Thursday departed Abuja to meet the new president of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). President Buhari said at the signing of the new law that a Fund will be set up “to ensure coverage of 83 million poor Nigerians who cannot afford to pay premiums as recommended by the Lancet Nigeria Commission.” -Advertisement- He then went on to elaborate on how the Fund will be sourced: “For the large number of vulnerable individuals who are not able to pay health insurance premiums, a Vulnerable Group Fund will be set up to include a component of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund due to the Authority, Health Insurance Levy, Special Intervention Fund, and any investment proceeds, donations and gifts to the Authority.” The president announced that the Authority will collaborate with state government health insurance schemes to accredit primary and secondary health facilities and enroll Nigerians into the scheme in order to ensure the delivery of quality health care. The new Act also enables the Authority and state governments to develop information management systems and digital records for better data collection, monitoring and quality assurance. President Buhari tasked the Health Reform Committee to work with state governments, the Federal Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Authority to ensure the implementation of the articles in the new Act. Meanwhile, the president has departed Abuja to meet the new president of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, to convey his condolences on the passing of the former president and ruler of Abu Dhabi, His Highness, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. POLL He is expected to extend his congratulations to the new president, renewing bonds of the longstanding friendship between Nigeria and the UAE. The president, in an earlier congratulatory message to the new UAE leader, had reaffirmed Nigeria’s cordial relationship with the country, noting that the cooperation between both governments have helped Nigeria in tracking down illegal assets and tracing terrorist funds. Under the new leadership, President Buhari looks forward to a bigger and stronger partnership for peace, stability and prosperity of both countries. President Buhari will be accompanied by the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami; the Minister of Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello, and the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika. Other members of his delegation are the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Mohammed Monguno (rtd.) and the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Rufai Abubakar. The president is expected back in the country tomorrow.