MINNA – The former Governor of Lagos and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, on Friday visited Niger state in continuation of his nationwide campaign ahead of next year’s general election. Tinubu, who is visiting Niger state for the second time ahead of the party’s national delegate conference had during the first visit declined to speak with journalists after a closed-door meeting with Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello. He debunked rumours of not being medically fit for Nigeria’s number one seat, adding that those championing the cause of smearing his name on account of his medical fitness ahead of the Presidential job he is aspiring for have no medical certificates. While encouraging his teeming supporters not to fear about the campaign against his person on account of his age and medical fitness to become the next President, Tinubu said, “They say I no well, leg dey pain am. Don’t bother about them, they don’t have medical certificates. “The job of the Presidency is not about climbing mountains, it is not about carrying cement or wrestling, it is about knowing what to do and as a doer and thinker to provide the kind of leadership that Nigerians need”, adding that leadership is from God and only He has the powers to give and take it as well. The APC Presidential hopeful made the declaration after a closed-door meeting with the Governor, the former Governor of Borno state, Alhaji Ibrahim Kashim Shettima and one of the governorship aspirants in the state, Honourable Umar Bago who is the only one in the race. Tinubu, while addressing supporters who thronged Government House, Minna, to welcome him and his entourage, said he is running for Nigeria’s Presidency and counts himself as the only candidate of the APC ahead of the 2023 general election. The APC National Leader questioned the rationale behind anyone challenging his aspirations with his track records in Lagos and other positions to show for it said, “I am running for the Presidency of this country, I don’t know what others are running for”. Aspiring for positions requires evidence of track records, Tinubu insists, adding, “How many Councillors did they produce? How many chairmen have they produced? How many Governors, State Houses of Assembly or National Assembly members have they produced?” The former Lagos State Governor, who challenged other presidential aspirants on the platform of the APC, also took a swipe at the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), saying, “I am the only one in the race. I know the road, follow the only person who knows the road.” If elected President next year, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu promised that he will end all forms of security threats bedevilling the country, including armed banditry and Boko-Haram, adding that, “Armed bandits and terrorists will not take over our lands”. Speaking earlier, the former Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima, paid glowing tribute to Tinubu, saying he has the track record needed to move Nigeria forward and therefore solicited the support of Niger delegates ahead of the party’s convention and as well the 2023 general election.