P/HARCOURT – The State Commandant Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Rivers State Command; Commandant Abu Abdu Tambuwal has confirmed the arrest of two suspects in connection with diversion and dealing in petroleum products without appropriate licence as well as taking delivery of 17 suspects and 6 wooden Boats intercepted and arrested by Nigerian Navy on waterways for oil bunkering activities during routine patrols. Tambuwal decried the defiant behaviour of individuals dealing illegally in petroleum products and sabotaging the nation’s economy thereby contravening the Miscellaneous Offences Act, 2004 Laws of the Federation, the Anti -Sabotage Act, the Petroleum Act and its regulation. He noted this in a statement signed and made available to newsmen by the Command Public Relations Officer, Deputy Superintendent Olufemi Ayodele who relayed that the arrest was made possible through sustained Intelligence indicating that a group of oil dealers were transporting petroleum products through border states to neighbouring countries; thus the command’s Anti-vandal border patrol team swung into action and effected the arrests of Nwachi Emmanuel (M) 49 years of No 100 Umunna road Afikpo North, Ebonyi State and Chukwudi Obi (M) 52 years of No 7 Okwuonu street Aba, Abia State. -Advertisement- “Following a credible and sustained Intelligence which revealed that some Oil dealers were diverting petroleum products via States sharing borders with Rivers State and thereafter channel the products to neighbouring countries; the Anti-vandal border patrol team swung into action and impounded a Blue and white colour 50,000 litres capacity Truck with registration number Abia EZA 850 YF in conveyance of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly called Petrol”, the statement said. From the statements volunteered under caution by the suspects “we gathered that the truck in question took off from Ibeto road in Port Harcourt where the product was claimed to have been loaded; they further maneuvered to the border between Rivers and Imo States where they were arrested. Meanwhile, preliminary investigation report showed that the product’s waybill stated that the product should be delivered at Omo Wealth in Ikwerre Local Government, Port Harcourt. The suspects further claimed that there was a mistake while writing the waybill and that they decided to take the product to Imo State. Consequently, “in line with the dictates of the Harmonized Standard Operating Procedures on arrests, detention and prosecution of vessels and persons in Nigeria’s maritime environment HSOP-ADP 2016; 17 suspects and 6 wooden Boats were handed over to the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Rivers State Command by the Nigerian Navy Ship PATHFINDER in Port Harcourt. POLL “Investigation is currently ongoing and at its expiration, the suspects would definitely be charged to Court accordingly. It is quite despicable that in spite the fact that the government is committed to preventing fuel scarcity some economic saboteurs are busy diverting the product in order to suffer Nigerians. Hence, in the interest of the good people of Rivers State the PMS will be returned and discharged at Omo Wealth Station to prevent fuel scarcity in Port Harcourt.