Chelsea risk ending up like Arsenal unless their new American owners buck a worrying trend. It’s a relief for everyone at Stamford Bridge that Todd Boehly’s takeover has gone through and they can finally sign players again. But Chelsea is just a toy for them to play with. Look at all the other American owners in the Premier League – their US sports teams all do better than the teams they own over here. Look at Stan Kroenke at Arsenal. Why are the LA Rams winning the Super Bowl while Arsenal are coming fifth? Because that’s where their priorities are. -Advertisement- Look at Manchester United. The Glazers have won the Super Bowl with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. But how long is it now since United challenged for the title? Chelsea’s new owners are not going to invest the sort of money Roman Abramovich did. Those days are over. These Americans are now involved with one of the biggest clubs in the world. These toys don’t come along too often – and I call it a toy because it is really, to these people. It’s something money usually can’t buy. And they wouldn’t have been able to buy it without the war in Ukraine and everything that’s happened as a result. These guys own the LA Dodgers. What do they prioritise? Do they buy two top defenders and a world-class centre forward – or a pitcher for the baseball team? It’s understandable. They’ve been brought up all their lives on American sports, not football. But you don’t want Chelsea to be an afterthought. You don’t want Chelsea to be like Arsenal. But these are business people. They’re not used to having to spend £80million to buy a player and then give him £300,000-a-week because it doesn’t work like that in US sports. It’s change of mindset. And Chelsea need a big summer of signings that they might not get. They need at least a couple of defenders because Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen are leaving, and they might not be the only ones leaving either. POLL But they are stuck with Romelu Lukaku. They won’t be able to sell him without making a loss, and who could they get to replace him? Top-class centre forwards are scarce. They might go for Raheem Sterling but he plays the Manchester City way. I don’t think Raheem Sterling scores 20 goals a season for Chelsea. He likes to arrive late in the box at the far post for a tap-in. There’s an art to that. But I don’t see that ball getting whipped across the box like that too often at Chelsea, so where does he get his goals from? I still don’t think Thomas Tuchel knows his best line-up if I’m being honest. He has too many options but not enough of his forwards have done the business this season. There’s no consistency at Chelsea. That doesn’t help either because you can’t build up an understanding with the players around you. That’s Lukaku’s problem as well. Granted, I don’t think he works hard enough. But he hasn’t had the same players around him week in week out either. They chop and change. The mentality has to change as well because when they are on it, they no different to Manchester City and Liverpool. They did better against the top six clubs than Liverpool this season. And Liverpool couldn’t beat them in two cup finals. But Liverpool put the lesser teams away, and Chelsea lost to 4-1 at home to Brentford. They needed a last-minute goal to beat Watford at Stamford Bridge. That tells you the mentality isn’t right – and there isn’t a whole lot the new owners can do about that.