Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential screening, three petitions have been filed against the National Leader of the party and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu bordering on alleged irregularities in his credentials. However, this could not be confirmed by the John Odigie-Oyegun-led screening committee when the former Lagos State Governor appeared before the panel on Monday, May 30. But some sources close to him said they were not perturbed by the alleged petitions while others said the Asiwaju had no pending issue anywhere. -Advertisement- In one of the petitions dated May 17, 2022, by one Sagir Mai Iyali, who claimed to be a member of the APC from Kano State, the party was asked to disqualify Tinubu over alleged false documents he allegedly tendered to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) previously. Part of the letter reads; “We understand that Bola Ahmed Tinubu who has since procured his expression of interest and nomination forms and has submitted the same to the party has certain issues that amount to a similar disqualification scenario. “From the information contained in prior submissions to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), particularly in 1999, Mr Tinubu presented a false claim, on oath, of his attendance at the University of Chicago from 1972-1976. “It is clear now that these claims are false. Not only was this filed in the INEC form with a declaration on oath on December 20, 1999, but it was also contained in an affidavit of loss sworn to before the High Court of Lagos, Ikeja Registry, December 29, 1998. “The latter claim that seeks to transpose history is untenable. Mr Tinubu has to show proof he attended the University of Chicago or he must stand disqualified as the opposition is in possession of these same documents. Over the years, the identity of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been shrouded in secrecy. POLL “We, therefore, urge the screening committee to invoke the powers vested on it by the constitution and guidelines of the party to disqualify Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu from taking part in the APC primary election for the presidential election.” But one of the sources in Tinubu’s camp told Daily Trust last night that they were upbeat about the former Lagos governor’s clearance by the Oyegun committee. The source, who accompanied Tinubu to the screening, said “he was screened like every other person,” adding that they were waiting for the committee to submit its report. He said the committee would send its report for approval, adding that the Oyegun panel lacked powers to disqualify anyone. Another source in the camp dismissed the reported petition against the aspirant explaining that the issues raised had been long addressed. It could be recalled that in response to an enquiry by a national daily in January 2022, the Chicago State University said Tinubu indeed attended the university. Beverly Poindexter, who is in charge of official transcript requests, enrolment and degree verification at the Office of the Registrar, CSU, said Tinubu was one of their students. In an earlier letter dated August 20, 1999, and signed by the Registrar, Lois Davis, the university stated that Tinubu was its student between 1977 and 1979.