A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, has disclosed that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria actually envisaged power rotation between the North and the Southern part of the country. Bamidele, Senator representing, Ekiti Central Senatorial District explained that the wisdom behind the inclusion of Section 14 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended is to ensure that no section of the country has the domineering advantage over another. Speaking at the sideline of a Mega Empowerment for the people of his constituents on Tuesday in Ado-Ekiti, Senator Bamidele described agitation for power rotation to the South as not only constitutional but a legitimate request. -Advertisement- Amongst the Multimillionaire items distributed by the Senator were dozens of minibuses, sowing machines, generating sets, ploughing machines, grinding machines. The empowerment also captured People Living With Disabilities (PWDs) as wheelchairs, tricycles, motorbikes and ambulance buses were also distributed to the people in the five Local Governments in the Constituency. Others were: Ventilators, fertilisers, driers, Hilux vans, among others. “Let me state that  Section 14 of the constitution and various sections of the 1999 Constitution, as amended stated that no section of the country should dominate others in terms of positions. “Let me also state that the primary concept of governance is the welfare and good governance. The Section emphasized that Nigeria shall not be governed in such a way that any particular section will have a domineering advantage over others. POLL “That is the whole essence of equitable distribution of wealth and power. Part of the equitable distribution of power is allowing the presidency to rotate between North and South. “Though the constitution didn’t say specifically about rotation, but logically and through various judicial interpretations, allowing it to rotate is legal and constitutional,” Bamidele said. The APC chieftain argued that allowing the presidency to return to the South in 2023 will douse the raging restiveness and tension in the country. He described the rotation of the presidency between Northern and Southern Nigeria as a legal and constitutional agitation recognised by Section 14 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended. Speaking as a Nigerian,Bamidele said “There is social tension in Nigeria today and when you have situations whereby Nigerians are beginning to doubt our togetherness and no longer trust leadership, people should not be thinking about political dominance. “There is no part of this nation and zone that cannot produce the best. If you check properly, majority desire in APC is that there should be free, fair and credible primary to elect our presidential candidate and not by imposition”, he said. Bamidele expressed gratitude to his constituency for working hard to support him in the last three years. “What I am doing today is part of how to give back to society. This is not the first empowerment I have done. I have empowered over 5,000 people in my constituency in agriculture, tying and dying and others. “This is a basic and fundamental thing that I think will benefit our people in critical areas like Agriculture, education, security, health and general empowerment. “I have procured 10,000 volume of books for our students while two ambulances and Ventilators were donated to Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital”, he stated. The Chairman of the occasion and Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, urged the Ekiti voters to vote for the APC candidate, Biodun Oyebanji during the June 18 poll. The former Governor saluted the Senator for giving a strong showing through the empowerment programme, saying this has further showed that he is a good and worthy representative. “I know that all of you live Biodun Oyebanji, but he can only become governor if you vote for him. Don’t stay at home and be expecting victory. But if you go out and work, victory shall be ours,” he said. “Senator Bamidele has done well with this empowerment, he has done creditably well and this is kind of him. Please, don’t forget to remember him when the time comes.”