The digital economy of to­day and the near future is completely based on the consumption of informa­tion and the commercialisation of knowledge from information. Without this, there would be none of the modern businesses. Every modern generation has expressed this fear. As such, it is evident that the human brain is fully equipped to deal with this phenomenon. It will all be equal­ised by those who engage and in­vest in research, as exemplified by the Asian Tiger phenomenon. The digital economy in Africa started in Cape Town, South Africa, in 1995 when Mark Shuttleworth built Thawte, a leading certificate authority, and sold it to Verisign when Vodacom championed pre­paid airtime. The wave then moved to Ghana in 2001. This is relative to the twentieth century which saw the economic rise of Asia through the significant economic rise of the “Asian Tiger” countries (Kojima 2000; UNCTAD 1996). Accordingly, the twenty-first century has been dubbed the Afri­can century (Wikipedia 2016). Tech Crunch, renowned technology me­dia company, recently published an article entitled ‘The Future Is African’ (Nash 2015), which aptly described how Africa is unleashing innovation by combining mobile and web technology to lead the world in the twenty-first century. -Advertisement- Africa should begin to think big on digital development. At the current, incremental pace of eco­nomic and social advancement, too many of Africa’s expanding youth population will be denied the opportunity to live up to their potential. Digital technologies offer a chance to disrupt this trajectory – unlocking new pathways for rap­id economic growth, innovation, job creation and access to services which would have been unimag­inable only a decade ago. Yet there is also a growing ‘digital divide’, and increased cyber risks, which need urgent and coordinated ac­tion to mitigate. Interestingly, tradition is defined relative to the period, level of hu­man development and knowledge at a given time, otherwise stagna­tion abides. Although, inordinate choices and inconsequential law­lessness especially by the poten­tates of the society could be coun­terproductive, as exemplified by the current situation in Nigeria. The future is already here. What is available technological­ly has not been fully activated for commercialisation yet. We are already in the age of knowledge and scary imagination. Even tech­nology ethics is currently under­going serious reconsideration as we navigate through the 4IR. Instructively, the Fourth Indus­trial Revolution ‘4IR’ created an in­crease in employment opportuni­ties. Wages at factories were higher than what individuals were mak­ing as farmers. As factories became widespread, additional managers and employees were required to op­erate them, increasing the supply of jobs and overall wages. Consequently, we stand on the brink of a technological revolution that will fundamentally alter the way we live, work, and relate to one another. In its scale, scope, and complexity, the transformation will be unlike anything humankind has experienced before. We do not yet know just how it will unfold, but one thing is clear: the response to it must be integrated and compre­hensive, involving all stakeholders of the global polity, from the pub­lic and private sectors to academia and civil society. POLL Ultimately, ‘4IR’ will hasten the speedy attainment of a high stan­dard of living, quality of life and well-being for all, ending poverty, inequalities of income and oppor­tunity; job creation, especially ad­dressing youths unemployment; facing up to the challenges of rap­id population growth and urban­ization, improvement of habitats and access to basic necessities of life – water, sanitation, electricity; providing social security and pro­tection; well-educated citizens and skills revolutions underpinned by science, technology and innova­tion, development in Africa’s hu­man and social capital (through an education and skills revolution emphasizing science and technol­ogy). In conclusion, the (4IR)– char­acterised by the fusion of the digi­tal, biological, and physical world, as well as the growing utilisation of new technologies, such as artifi­cial intelligence, cloud computing, robotics, 3D printing, the inter­net stuff, and advanced wireless technologies, among others—has ushered in a new era of econom­ic disruption with uncertain so­cio-economic consequences for Africa. However, Africa has been left behind during the past indus­trial revolution. The big question is will this time be different? Africa arise and shine! Odusanya is a Social Reform Cru­sader and the convener of Africa Covenant Rescue Initiative ACRI