ABUJA – The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) has called for the election of transformational leadership that will birth a new Nigeria in all tiers of government as the 2023 general elections draw closer. Mr Asue Ighodalo, Chairman of the NESG, made the call on Friday in Abuja at the National Economic Dialogue organised by NESG with the objective of arousing national consciousness about the state of the Nigerian economy. Ighodalo tasked the government to address six critical challenges causing economic dysfunction which include weak and non-inclusive economic growth, macroeconomic instability, infrastructure deficit, human capital deficit and skills gap, national insecurity and weak economic competitiveness. -Advertisement- He lamented that following the return of democratic governance in the country in 1999 that the hopes and expectations of Nigerians have been continuously dashed, adding that the vision of a peaceful, prosperous, united, strong and cohesive Federation where the rule of law prevailed, and no person is oppressed seemed to be dimmed and elusive, considering the formidable challenges facing the nation today. In view of the plethora of challenges confronting the nation, he pointed out that Nigeria is at crossroads, adding that it has become imperative to elect leaders who think globally and act locally to tackle seemingly development problems plaguing the country. He said:”The emergence of such enlightened leadership–credible, competent, courageous, reform-minded and able to rebuild the institutions of governance is what Nigerians desperately need now. “It is our collective task, in the national interest, to ensure that such a leader, fit for purpose, will emerge at the conclusion of the 2023 presidential election. “If we make the right choices, within the decade, Nigeria can become a leading industrialising and reforming nation in Africa that focuses on building its state capacity and capabilities; the country will break free from decades-long political, policy, legislative and regulatory constraints. POLL “We will create an enabling investment climate and business environment underpinned by a motivated, capacitated, well-resourced, world class civil service that drives open, transparent and high-performance governance.” Ighodalo, therefore, urged Nigerians to participate in the political process and ensure the election of the best candidates from various political parties. “We must insist that as our politicians begin to set or reshape their plan on the way forward, they will be mindful of the various negative socio-economic indicators and not lose sight or focus to finding a path to transformational progress. “We, the citizens need to pay attention to the quality of our political system,processes, institutions, and economic reforms. “Our collective responsibility is to deliver a first world country with happy and safe citizens. “This is a call to national service. We must be more involved, more selfless and more tolerant, acting in the national interest,” he explained. During the panel session, Prof. Osita Ogbu, Professor of Economics and Director, Institute for Development Studies, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, said a non-inclusive economy is a recipe for insecurity in the country. Ogbu noted the that the nagging issues of poverty and inequality are pervasive in the country, adding that Nigeria does not have regard to national planning. He argued that no nation has been able to lift her citizenry out of poverty without robust manufactoring sector. In his submission, Dr. Hussaini Abdu, Country Director, Care International, decried the 18.5million children who are out of school in Nigeria. Abdu fingered corruption as being responsible for a situation where government builds schools without providing the requisite and qualified personnel to run these schools. In his contribution, Mr. Ari Aisen, Resident Representative of International Monetary Fund(IMF) in Nigeria, advised Nigerian government to give priority to agricultural sector. On the rising Nigeria’s debt profile, Aisen counselled government to only borrow loans for investments. Another panelist, Mr. Samson Itodo, Executive Director, Yiaga Africa, urged Nigerians to pay more attention to leadership recruitment process to produce leaders who have capacity, character and competence to govern. Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, Senior Partner, Olisa Agbakoba Legal, said poor leadership has been the bane of Nigeria’s development since her independence. Agbakoba urged Nigerians to vote capable and competent leaders for socio-economic and political development of the country.