PROFILE / CITATION Dr. Henry Adebowale Adimula, FCSN, MICCON, MNACE, MPIN, MNES, was appointed the Principal and Chief Executive of Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Ef­furun, Delta State with effect from June 17th, 2021, by the Institute’s Governing Council. Until his appointment, Dr. Henry A. Adimula was the Institute’s acting Principal and Chief Executive from July 4th, 2020 to June 17th, 2021. He was also the former Vice Prin­cipal of the Petroleum Training Institute, from December 4th, 2019 to July 4th, 2020. -Advertisement- Dr. Adimula had his university education at the Univer­sity of Ilorin where he graduated with a B.Sc. Chemistry (1985) and M.Sc. (Chemistry) 1989 and the University of Be­nin, where he earned his Ph.D. in 2010, with specialization in the “Modifications and Applications of Biopolymers”. In 1990, he was appointed by the National Institute for Freshwater Fisheries Technology, New-Bussa, Niger state and was immediately deployed to head the Chemistry de­partment of the Federal College of Freshwater Fisheries Technology, a subsidiary of the Institute. He joined the services of the Petroleum Training In­stitute in 1992, as a Lecturer II and by virtue of his hard work and outstanding contributions to the progress and actualization of the objectives of the Institute, he rose to the headship of this unique citadel of learning. Dr. H. A. Adimula has a distinguished career at the PTI and has held various offices of high responsibilities. He served as Head, Department of Industrial Safety and Environmental Technology (ISET) between 2014 and 2017. As the head of the largest single Department in the Institute, he built a team of motivated staff, promoting and nurturing harmonious working relationships. In the middle of his tenure as Head of the Department, he was saddled with a higher responsibility of piloting the affairs of the newly established Directorate of Research and Development (R&D) as the pioneer Director in December, 2017. POLL As Director of Research and Development, he estab­lished a 5-year plan for transforming the research culture of the Institute and created research clusters to address the various technological challenges of the oil and gas industry with a goal to developing home grown technology and to deepen the Nigerian content in the oil and gas industry. He also served as the Director of Science from July 2018 to December 2019. As the Director of Science, he worked with the other Directors and top Management staff to for­mulate policies and the strategic directions for the Institute until he was appointed by the Governing Council of the Institute in December 2019, to occupy the vacant position of Vice Principal. As the Vice Principal, he was saddled with the respon­sibility of repositioning the Institute to better respond to the emerging trends in the oil and gas industry and leading the Institute to become a skills-certifying centre for the oil and gas industry in Nigeria. Dr Henry Adimula the seasoed academia served mer­itoriously in the capacity of Vice Principal until his appointment as the Ag. Principal in July 2020, and as the substantive Principal and Chief Executive of the Petroleum Training lnstitute PTl Effurun Delta State on June 17th, 2021. He has since then been embarking on projects and initiatives aimed at more closely aligning the Institute to solving the technological challenges and the training needs of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria in particular and the rest of the world. Achievements in Academic Research and Infrastruc­tural Development under his watch as the Principal and Chief Executive of PTI, all the courses were subjected to revalidation and reaccreditation, a process that was a re­sounding success. He introduced NSQ partnership develop­ment centre at the Osubi Campus to equip and to produce skilled manpower students in a life-long system of learning process classified as the best way forward in knowledge and skill acquisition. He has championed human capacity building through the training of staff and maintenance of industrial har­mony etc. Through his dogged effort, Dr Adimula completed infrastructure in the Osubi campus for research and de­velopment. The administrative building that is ongoing is another testimony of the success story of the indefatigable chief executive of the petroleum training institute. Just last year the corrosion centre was commissioned through his total commitment to excellence. Plans are underway to build a mobile workshop that can fix propeller for sea going vessels; through partnership with Benel Energy PTI is now a center for training and cer­tification for international well control forum (IWCF). Today, PTI is the best in Africa in terms of capacity to train manpower for the oil and gas industry. The man­agement is looking forward to attract industries back to Warri through a mega complex to serve as expo center for all industrial activities. PTI as an objective center for research and development is ready to create research clusters that will look into challenges in the industry. It will also interest you to know that PTI overcame the dreaded Covid19 by taking proactive action to train our staff and medical personnel who created a unit to educate staff. From the exigencies of Covid19, PTI digi­tized her training programme. Today, PTI have a studio where lectures are taken digitally. We have E-library and all our courses are available online. Dr. Adimula is well respected academic Don in his research works which seeks solutions to the problems of pollution of the environment by the Nigerian oil and gas industry. He is a two time winner of the PTDF Re­search Grant competition for his research to “Develop Immobilized Oil Degrading Microorganisms in Local Cellulosic Materials for Rapid Deployment in the Re­mediation of Oil Polluted Soils”. He has published in several respected academic journals and he is an active member of a number of professional societies where he has held several offices of responsibility. Dr Henry Adimula as a man of vision is poised and resolute in his determination to fill observable gaps in the oil and gas industry. To affirm that claim, he has started training manpower in the area of development particularly in cloning technology, manufacture of so­lar devices, motorised electric-powered devices, among others. Dr Adimula realized early that “PTI does not exist in isolation ; so he deepened his quest to make the institution consistently relevant by venturing into building partnership and knowledge sharing in line with the realities of global­ization. The success story of Dr Henry Adimula’s crave for excellence is that through him PTI is partnering with sev­eral organisations including the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) to share ideas and to provide platforms for both staff and students to get better exposure to the latest technology in the oil and gas industry.” With Dr Adimula as the Chief Executive of PTI ,the Diving Centre of Excellence (DCoE) of the institute has beeen established and developed in partnership with local and for­eign collaborators to make PTI the Centre of diving training in the sub-Sahara region and beyond. The Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Effurun, the fore­most oil and gas training institution and the first diving school in the sub Sahara Africa has concluded plans to host Diver Medical Technician (DMT) Course. The DMT programme which will be certified by Interna­tional Marine Contractors Association (IMCA), will be hosted in partnership with JFD, UK and James Fishers Nigeria as technical partners. Globally informed and relevant members of the academ­ic community particularly in the oil and gas industry have expressed optimism that Dr Henry Adimula would be able to push the frontiers of the petroleum education beyond it’s present state and make PTI globally competitive. The Petroleum Training Institute ( PTI ) Effurun Warri Delta State is indeed a unique institution, a leading light in the Provision of Manpower for the growth and development of the Oil ,Gas and Allied lndustries Particularly in Nigeria and across the African Continental shelf and beyond . Dr Henry Adimula while addressing the media recently did not leave any one in doubt that the Petroleum Training lnstitute has lived up to the dream of it’s founding fathers since it was established in 1972 by an Act of Parliament No 37 and subsequently amended by Act No 52 of 1975 and later by the PTl Act CAP 16, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The PTl Chief Executive at various fora has made it clear that there is need to celebrate the Petroleum Training In­stitute for the succesful milestones recorded so far in the lnstitute Which is the first of it’s kind in Africa. Dr Henry Adimula the erudite Academic Don noted during the media parley that PTl having crossed many vis­tas in line with the guidelines for it’s establishment with the core mandate to provide courses of instruction , training and research in technology and in the development of Tech­nologists and Technicians required for the Oil, gas and allied industries , he is proud to look back in retrospection and say that the institute have achieved so much in terms of solving pratical problems in the oil and gas industry across board. The PTI boss in clear terms stated during his speech that the PTI founding fathers vision and Missions statement has been the guiding principles within which the Management Board operates as an lnstitute . He harped on the need for PTI to remain resolute and focused while Promising to pursue the vision of sustaining PTl as the leading oil and gas technological lnstitute in Africa and maintain the lead through continuous update of new frontiers of kwowledge while the mission will be contin­uous emphasis on the Provision of competent technological human resources through quality training, research and consultancy for the Petroleum and allied industry.” Dr Henry Adimula remarked during his speech that one of the academic milestones achieveved by the lnstitute is the National Skill Qualification Framework ( NSQF) which was introduced into the PTI educational system , under his watch as the Principal, essentially to develop, to classify and recognize skills, knowledge and competence that is required by individuals irrespective of how the skills and training were acquired . The programme he explained is a highbred certification System which have allowance for continuous training of competent hands for the Oil and gas industry , ensuring col­laborative synergy between PTI and the oil and gas industry. He was also glad to apprise Daily lndependent crew on ground that some of the staff of PTl has been certified as Assessors of the NSQF Programme. Dr Adimula the erudite scholar said PTI has come of age, adding that this year 2022 the lnstitute shall celebrate her golden jubilee. He disclosed that in the last fifty (50) years PTI have trained over twenty thousand ( 20,000 ) students who are now in every facet of the oil and gas industries in Nigeria and all over the world. Dr. Adimula is married and blessed with wonderful children. He’s a part-time pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God. He loves reading and contributing to building a better society