The 22nd edition of Milo Basketball Championship Central Conference has ended at the weekend in Ilorin, Kwara state capital. The states that participated in the conference are Niger, Nasarawa, Plateau and the host state, Kwara. Others are Benue, Kebbi, Kaduna, Sokoto and the F.C.T (Abuja). At the end of the championship, Akpur College, Gboko, Benue state and Government Secondary School, Karu, FCT emerged champions in the girls and boys categories, respectively. -Advertisement- In the girls category, Akpur College, Gboko, Benue state defeated its counterpart, Queen Amina College, Sabon-Tasha, Kaduna state 35-31 to emerge champions while the boys from Government Secondary School, Karu, FCT outclassed their Father O’Conel Science College, Minna, Niger state opponents 34-23 in a thrilling encounter. Speaking with journalists at the event, the Category Manager for Beverages, Nestlè Nigeria, Mr. Olutayo Olatunji, said that, “At MILO, we believe that through participation in sports, children learn grit and imbibe values that help them on their journey to success in life. “We are therefore committed to the MILO secondary schools basketball championship in Nigeria. “We are also delighted that we are able to return the championshiop after a break caused by the COVID-19 pandemic”. “Let me use this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to developing talents, enforcing healthier lifetyle, and instilling values and lessons for success in life through this championship. POLL “The MILO secondary schools basketball championship will continue to provide the opportunities for developing qualities including leadership skills, ability to work in a team, perseverance, courage, self-belief, and respect in these young ones who participate. ‘”We are grateful to our partners– the Nigeria Schools Sports Federation (NSSF) and the National Collegiate Sports Foundation (NCSF) for their support over the last 22 editions”. Also speaking, the chairman of the Kwara state sports council, Bolakale Adisa Mogaji, who was special guest at the conference said, “I am a beneficiary of MILO sports development in Nigeria. “I participated in the now rested MILO squash championship in Lagos many years ago. “MILO Secondary Schools Basketball Championship is a very good development for all basketball players”, he said.