LAGOS – The Federal Government said it is initiating the Fly-2-Green Nigeria Program in a bid to drastically reduce carbon emissions in the country. The government lamented that the country is ranked one of the highest in the globe in deforestation and there is a need to take practical steps to reduce the inimical act. Captain Musa Nuhu, the Director-General, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), stated this over the weekend in his paper: ‘Green Flight to Eco-System Conservation in Nigeria Mobilising Market-Based Measures for Sustainable Aviation in Nigeria’ at the Africa-Indian Ocean (AFI) Week held in Abuja. -Advertisement- Nuhu stated that statistics revealed that the African continent, which is responsible for less than 3 per cent of global emissions, would bear the brunt of over 60 per cent of global Green-House Emissions effects. The Nigerian program, he said is engineered to launch the first Green Aviation Marketplace program in Africa and to promote progressive possibilities that profit the people and the planet through climate smart ESG efficient programs that guarantee Green and Blue Economic Growth for the United Nations Global Green Goals Agenda. According to him, this challenge would expose the continent to myriads of socio-economic, environmental, security and humanitarian challenges from desertification, the drying up of Lake Chad and Blue Biodiversity losses within Pan-African wetlands and ocean shorelines stressing that it was time for Africa to put a “Green Foot forward.” The NCAA helmsman emphasised that the Fly-2-Green Nigeria is designed as an Eco-Citizen stimulus program that goes beyond open lifestyle incentives to create shared values, shared visions and shared possibilities that rally Eco Consumer driven Sustainable Aviation Value Chain Marketplace to drive Net Zero Emissions Footprint for the Aviation Industry. He revealed that the Fly-2-Green Nigeria product is geared towards promotion of progressive partnerships and possibilities that profit the people and the planet through a smart Eco-Citizen Flyers Empowerment program that drives Future Forest Footprint projects. POLL He said would be achieved through Green Sky Miles that guarantee 100 million Fly-2-Green Carbon Neutral tickets totalling over 10 billion Eco-Citizens Flyer Miles to plant over 1 billion trees across Nigerian in 10 years in commemoration of the United Nations Decade for Ecosystem Restoration in Nigeria. He said: “Nigeria is home to a host of climate change challenges, most of all biodiversity degradation and pollution. Nigeria holds the record for the African country with the highest deforestation rate hence, the urgency to mobilise a common, but differentiated Sustainable Aviation Solution for Nigeria that is designed specifically to ensure Biodiversity Conservation and Restoration across our communities. “Green-Sky-Green is the first Eco-Citizen Flyer Miles program that deploys incentive-based voluntary Eco Label tokens to mitigate Aviation Industry Carbon Emission Footprint beyond the ICAO’s CORSIA scheme in Nigeria through Forest Impact programs that guarantee Biodiversity and Ecosystem conservation to combat desertification and protect wetlands for SDG Goals 14 and 15. “The Green-Sky-Green program is a voluntary carbon emission reduction program that empowers Eco- Citizen travellers to grow 10 trees for every domestic ticket and 100 trees for every international ticket purchased in Nigeria.”