***Passes Vote Of Confidence On All APC Candidates WARRI – The Leadership of NETLIN Youths ln Politics, Delta State Chapter has passed votes of confidence on all the APC aspirants that would emerge from the primaries as candidates and they unilaterallyendorsed the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as their most preferred candidate for the 2023 Delta State Governorship election. The Executives of NETLIN, Youths In Politics Delta State Chapter who spoke in their separate endorsement speeches as stakeholders affirmed that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has demonstrated robust leadership quality in his foray in Politics as an experienced grassroot Political General that can be trusted totake over leadership in Delta State as the governor come 2023. -Advertisement- According to the concerned stakeholders of the Group, having studied the political history of Delta State, it is trite to note that the time is ripe for Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the most qualified and suitable of all the aspirants on parade to mount the saddle of leadership to move Delta State from the cycle of Politicians who specializes in the politics of stomach infrastructure to a better Delta for all. The Ambassador of the group NETLIN, Youths In Politics, Delta State Chapter, Comrade Emmanuel Oguori, a Youth activist cum good governance advocate who spoke to newsmen about the details of the endorsement after a well attended meeting held at Manuex Place Effurun, on the 24th of May 2022, pointed out that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege is a carrier of light, a man coming with a lot of promises with so much already fulfilled for the betterment of Deltans his as a Federal Law Maker. Comrade Emmanuel Oguori stated in his speech that Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and the rest of the APC candidates are the change agents needed to turn around the fortune of the good people of Delta State and the country at large, so that they will no longer wallow in darkness. He observed in his press statement that what Senator Ovie Omo-Agege succeeded in achieving in terms of projects he attracted to Delta State like the Federal Polytechnic Orogun, National Grid step down, The Law School Branch in Delta, the two new constituencies of Sapele and Ethiope East, the Solar Light Projects and Transformers installation spread across the State are all testimonies of the good things to expect if Omo-Agege is voted into power as the governor of Delta State come 2023. The Ambassador assertted with emphasis saying: “ln line with the communique reached at our NEC meeting, we are in total support of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege for Governor and all the other APC candidates because we are fed up with the Government of chop l chop while the masses suffer.” POLL The Deputy Ambassador Comrade Dike Henry who also spoke, emphasized that Sen. Ovie Omo- Agege isa Youth savvy grassroot leader with the requisite knowledge to move Delta State to enviable heights if given the mandate as Governnor of Delta State come 2023. According to Deputy Ambassador, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has performed credibly well to the constellation of Deltans in his capacity as the Deputy Senate President, adding that: “We have implicit confidence, that he Will develop Delta State at a faster pace than we are experiencing under the PDP since democracy was enthroned in 1999.” Hon Comrade Akpotu Sunday Adjartho, the Secretary of the Group, Who took his turn to speak, emphasized the need for Deltans to show their full solidarity and rally round Senator Ovie Omo-Agege in his Governorship ambition to liberate Delta State from the shackles of underdevelopment. Speaking further, the youth Scribe stressed that the development Senator Ovie Omo-Agege attracted to Delta State as Deputy Senate President is a confirmation that his administration will usher in accelerated growth and development as we have never witnessed before in the history of Delta State. Comrade Joann Eseroghene Onoruerome , the Publicity Secretary in her statement noted thatSenator Ovie Omo-Agege’s ambition to become Governor of Delta State is a divinely approved mandate as requested by the down trodden masses of Delta State. She expressed pain and despair occasioned by the present condition of the State which is experiencing high tax rates, extortion from the the people, tacit approval of illegality , particularly Youths, aka ‘Agberos’ who causes manace on our roads, lack of jobs, inadequate equipment and medical personnel in our hospitals and so much more. Joann maintained that there is need for Deltans to come together so that we can get it right this time and move our state forward, hence the Group’s endorsement of the Deputy Senate President as Delta State Governnor come 2023. Comrade Blessed Brume Oduvwu the Financial Secretary of the Group while making his contribution remarked that Deltans need a Governnor who can empathize with the people, a Man with amagnanimous heart, all attributes which are rolled up in the person of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege . He also enjoined all Deltans at home and in diaspora to make it a necessity to support Omo-Agege in the Delta Gubernatorial race and all the candidates that will emerge from the APC Primaries. NETLIN, Youths in Politics, Delta State Chapter summarily concurred and will do everything within their power to mobilize support for Senator Ovie Omo-Agege’s Governorship ambition and all those who gets the APC ticket during their general elections. The Group acknowledged, that so far there are good reasons for Delta State to clamor for a change and the ample opportunity to effect that change isthe upcoming Delta, 2023 polls. The endorsement statement also emphasized the need for everyone 18years and above to get their voters card believing that our votes would count. YOUTHS IN POLITICS, TOMORROW IS NOW!!!