Matthew was recently posted as the new branch manager to help turn around a loss-making branch in a financial services institution. This was his first leadership position. Excited about the new challenge, he started researching the ideas on leadership and how to lead effectively. However, his excitement quickly turned to confusion. With a plethora of conflicting theories about leadership, he became lost. There is no uniformity about the meaning of leadership, its importance, and how to lead effectively. Some authors focused on leadership styles, others on the leader’s personality, others on leadership traits, yet others on situational leadership. Where would he start from? How would he lead effectively? Use the concepts in this chapter to help Matthew to lead effectively. Leadership! Everyone talks about it, but very few understand what it means and what leaders really do. Millions of articles have been written about leadership and leadership failures. And millions more will still be written. Yet, effective leadership remains the greatest need of the world today. From Africa to America, Oceania to Europe, the world is looking for leaders in the political and organisational spheres. The fall of Afghanistan to the Taliban is a silent reminder that where leadership is weak or absent, nations regress to dictatorship, organisations become kleptocracies, teams disintegrate, and performance comes to a screeching halt. -Advertisement- Leadership is the glue that binds individuals together to a common purpose, keeps organisations competitive, and nations viable. The Context of Leadership Leadership always exists in a context, and if you miss the context, you miss the essence. From the brief history of leadership, you see that the context of leadership is WORK. Leaders are necessary to help people solve a problem that they cannot solve themselves. In this case, the threats from wild animals or competitors. Leadership is about producing results for a group of people and not about having a title or occupying a position. Effective leaders accept responsibility for a group for the benefit of that group. Solving problems, producing results, and accepting responsibility all point to the same thing: work! Work is the essence of leadership, and the leader’s job is best seen through the lens of work. Therefore, the purpose of any office, whether as a CEO, governor, or president, is to work. Those who cannot work or have not worked in the past should not be given any office to lead. POLL When someone desires the office for the sake of the office and has no desire to work, that person will either become a dictator (drunk with the power of the office) or a disaster (sleeping while the country or organisation falls). And there are many dictators and walking disasters in leadership positions today! The purpose of the office is to work. Great leaders have a great work ethic. The only reason they aspire to positions of authority is to work for the greater good of their nations, organisations, or teams. They see the office or the position as the privilege and opportunity to multiply impact—to make a significant difference and contribution in the lives of their people. So, if leadership exists in the context of work, what is the primary role of leadership? I know many would say that leadership is influence. But I believe that long before leadership is influence, leadership is first and foremost service (or work). Those who cannot serve have no business trying to influence people! But even if we accept the influence theory of leadership, we need to ask ourselves what the purpose of influence is? Again, going back to the brief history of leadership, we see three challenges facing the community: • They cannot see the threats facing them. • Even when they see the threats, they do not understand the implication of such threats to them. The same way BlackBerry and Nokia dismissed the threat of the iPhone. • Finally, they understand the threats but have their own ideas about how to deal with the threats. Thus, there is no coherence in their approach. Imagine a group of people who do not understand the threats facing them or refuse to work together to overcome them even when they know the threats. What would be the outcome? This is where leadership influence comes in. Effective leadership is about creating alignment for a group of people to share and effectively execute a common vision. Effective leaders help people see the threats (and opportunities), clarify the implications of such threats both from an organisational and a personal level, and help them give up their personal agendas for the good of the team. When leadership influence is complete, people subordinate their personal agendas for the team’s interest and work cooperatively to achieve business outcomes. So, influence is a means to an end. And the end is the behavioural change seen in a greater commitment to working together and achieving a common goal. When we influence people, we move them from ignorance to insight, indifference to commitment, and selfishness to altruism. That is, the fruit of influence reveals itself in people’s attitudes to their responsibilities and work. They have a changed outlook, changed behaviours, and an increased commitment to their work and the team. As a result, irresponsible and selfish people become responsible workers and great team players who hold themselves accountable for business results.