Senator Matthew Urhoghide Scholarship Foundation over the weekend presented scholarships to no fewer than 110 students from tertiary institutions and secondary schools in batch four of the senator’s scholarship programme. The programme was inaugurated in 2016 by Senator Urhoghide representing Edo South Senatorial District in the red chamber of the National Assembly. The beneficiaries of the scholarship were made up of 22 tertiary institution students and 88 secondary schools bringing the cumulative grand total to 367 since its inception in 2016. -Advertisement- Speaking during the award ceremony, Senator Urhoghide, expressed gratitude to the electorate from Edo South Senatorial district who voted for him to enable him to fulfil the promises he made to God that whenever he was in any position, he will use that position to assist the children of the poor and needy. He said, ” The scholarship is for indigent but brilliant students in public schools who reside within the geographical boundaries of Edo South Senatorial District. “And this will not be prejudicial to the sex, tribe, religion, political beliefs or leanings of the recipients. The award is devoid of any political affiliation and to ensure that we help to educate the children put under our care by God. ” Against the background which I come from, I have kept my promise to the glory of God and I will continue to do it as long as my mandate remains”. Earlier, Edo State Commissioner for Education, Dr Joan Oviawe who was represented by Mrs Patricia Ekhator, expressed gratitude to Senator Matthew Urhoghide for collaborating with the State government to make sure that every  Edo child was educated. POLL She advised the recipients to work very hard to justify the investment by Senator Urhoghide. A former Vice-Chancellor of the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma and Chairman, Board of Directors of the Senator Matthew Urhoghide Scholarship Scheme, Prof Dennis Agbonlahor, praised the donor for touching the lives of the young ones in their educational pursuit. Chief David Edebiri, the Esogban of the Benin Kingdom in his remark thanked senator Matthew Urhoghide for all he has been doing for the people of his constituency. According to him, Urhoghide has always cared and toed the line of peace and progress for the people of Edo South Senatorial District in particular, Edo state and Nigeria in general and as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria he has displayed a lot of humility towards the people of his constituency and I have asked God to continue to be with him in all his endeavours and aspirations in life.