Celtic legend Scott Brown has announced his retirement from football at the age of 36, as he looks to turn his attention to becoming a manager. The former Celtic captain has decided to leave his player-coach role at Aberdeen in March, just nine months into a two-year contract to focus on his coaching development. Brown spent 14 seasons at Celtics, where he won a staggering 23 major honours and played a huge role in their Quadruple Treble team which won domestic trebles every season between 2016-17 and 2019-20. -Advertisement- He told the Daily Record: ‘It’s been a very difficult decision to call time on my playing career but I’ll be 37 next month and I feel the time is right for me to announce that I’m retiring in order to focus fully on becoming a manager. ‘It’s the end of one chapter but the start of a new one and I’m excited about what the future might hold. ‘Obviously I will cherish some amazing moments from my time and none better than winning so many trophies during my years at Celtic. So I’m delighted that the club is now about to celebrate winning the title back.’ Brown made a total of 787 appearances for Hibernian, Celtic and Aberdeen in a career spanning 19 years, and also earned 55 Scotland caps. Among his honours he won ten Scottish Premiership titles – nine of which came in succession between their 2011-12 and 2019-20 triumphs. POLL In his last season for the club, they missed out on winning the trophy ten times in a row after Rangers ended their decade of dominance to win the league under Steven Gerrard. Ange Postecoglou’s side are on the brink of reclaiming the title and could do so if they beat Heart on Saturday lunchtime and hope Rangers fail to beat Dundee United. Brown said: ‘It was always an honour for me going out there as captain, knowing the lads were listening to you in that huddle, with 50,000 fans behind us wanting us to do our best. ‘Yes my last season didn’t go that well but that’s football. You’d take nine out of 10 titles all day long – I’ll just have to take that one on the chin.’ The midfield has made 33 appearances in all competitions for Aberdeen this season, who are ninth in the Scottish Premiership.