Hypertension occurs when the blood pressure in the arterial walls is high. As the heart beats, blood is pumped into the arteries to supply all the body organs. The blood pressure reading is higher when the heart beats, called systolic blood pressure. And, the blood pressure reading is lower when the heart relaxes, called diastolic pressure. These two numbers represent the top and bottom numbers of blood pressure measurements. Ideally, these numbers are best when the blood pressure readings are not more than 120/80. Either high blood pressure, which is called hypertension, or low blood pressure, called hypotension, is not suitable for the body organs. For example, hypertension is a leading cause of heart attack, stroke, kidney failure, and heart failure. In summary, the blood chart contains the following five categories: -Advertisement- Types and causes of hypertension. There are two main types or causes of hypertension: primary and secondary hypertension: Signs and Symptoms Hypertension is often a “silent killer,” as you may not have any symptoms until huge complications have occurred. The easiest way to know that you may be hypertensive is by regularly checking your blood pressure readings. POLL It should be emphasized that a Hypertensive crisis needs immediate medical attention. Malignant hypertension or hypertensive emergency is the most severe type of hypertension and associated with diastolic above 130 or 149 mm Hg and any complaint, including severe headache, chest pain, shortness of breath, back pain, numbness, weakness, slurred speech, nosebleed, confusion, or vision changes. Risk factors for hypertension The risk factors for hypertension include genetics/race/family history, age, weight/obesity, lack of physical activities or sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy diet or excessive sodium intake, low potassium in diet, alcoholism, stress, cigarette or tobacco use, other medical conditions including diabetes, kidney disease, and obstructive sleep apnea. Diagnosis and Tests The healthcare provider will perform a physical examination. Test and assessments may include: Tests and imaging may evaluate basic or complete metabolic, lipids and hepatics panels, urinalysis, echocardiogram or electrocardiogram of the heart, and kidney disease using or ultrasound of the kidneys. Treatments for hypertension Medication administration should not be the first or sole treatment of hypertension. Other measures must be implemented before or with pharmacotherapy interventions. These measures should include diet modifications or heart-healthy diets, especially Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet, daily physical activities, and other lifestyle modifications, including good sleep and stress-free habits, commence alcohol, cigarette, and illegal drug-use cessation. You should monitor blood pressure daily. If medications are needed, your provider may implement one or more therapeutic options as listed below. Prognosis: The outlook or outcome of hypertension depends on the cause and adherence to the modifications or/and medications. In most instances, hypertension is a chronic disease that might linger for the rest of your life, except if it was secondary hypertension with a permanent cure to the offending conditions or agents. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with North Texas VA Medical Center and Southcoast Hospital. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics.