The Chairman, Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC), Aare Isiaka Abiola Olagunju, SAN, on Saturday, emerged as the pioneer Chairman of Egbe Amofin Oodua also known as Yoruba Lawyers Forum to lead the association for the next two years. The election which was held at the Chief Magistrate Court, Ibadan produced eight executive members via electronic and manual voting by members of the forum in Nigeria and diaspora. Aare Olagunju, who emerged unopposed, emphasised the need for members to involve actively in the activities of the forum to further achieve its set goals. -Advertisement- Speaking, he explained that his administration will focus on how to further re-unite members and empower the young members to attain greater heights in the legal profession. He said: In my speech, you will recall that I mentioned the fact that Egbe Amofin was created some years ago by our forefathers. And we cannot forget the contribution of Chief Kehinde Sofola, Chief Fayoko, and Chief Wole Olanipekun SAN to the growth of this Association. “This association has been very strong and we have it on record today that it has produced several juggernauts in the legal profession. It was in the association we had first unopposed President of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA. Unfortunately, after that, there has been so much disunity amongst us and it’s affecting us. “So, our main focus is how to re- unite the Egbe Amofin; the strong bond that we had in the 80s and 90s when we were so united must return. So, we need to right the wrongs and unite ourselves and empower younger ones who are coming behind us so that they can be in the right place in the legal profession.”Also speaking , the Chairman, Caretaker, Committee, Professor Oluwole Akintayo , revealed that the forum is much stronger following a renowned commitment by members. The new executive members include; Oluwatoyin Bashorun, SAN, Vice Chairman ( Lagos Branch ) Adetunji Osho , Secretary ( Ekiti Branch ) and Ademola Ikujuni, Assistant Secretary ( Akure Branch). POLL Others are Rotimi Oyadola, Financial Secretary, ( Ilorin Branch ), Rotimi Olorunfemi, Treasurer ( Ondo branch ), Olayinka Sokoya , Publicity Secretary ( Ogun Branch ), Paul Akomolafe, Welfare Secretary ( Ekiti Branch ) and Moshood Abiola, Auditor, ( Ikeja Branch ).