LAGOS – There are indications on Thursday that the meeting convened by South- West leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the party’s presidential aspirants from the zone may be postponed. The meeting, convened by the former governors of Ogun and Osun states, Chief Olusegun Osoba and Bisi Akande at the Lagos House, Marina, was called for the South-West to present a united front going into the presidential primary as there were now many aspirants from the region. Aspirants expected at the meeting were Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; former Lagos State governor and national leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; immediate past governor of Ogun State and serving senator, Ibikunle Amosun, and Pastor Tunde Bakare. -Advertisement- However, credible sources informed Daily Independent that some former governors and loyalists of some of the presidential aspirants are alleging bias, saying majority of the South West APC leaders are allies of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Those against the meeting said the conveners of the meeting deliberately left out some former governors who are in the APC from attending the meeting by not sending invitation. While faulting the composition of the meeting, they are therefore demanding a postponement of the meeting so that they can be included in the decisions. Speaking with our correspondent, a former governor in the South-West said they have written letters to both Akande and Osoba, demanding a postponement of the meeting. “There is no guarantee the meeting will hold today because most leaders in the South West APC who were initially shut out are asking for participation. From the look of things, a postponement is likely if the conveners really mean well for the South-West”. POLL “How can you call a South- West APC leaders meeting and did not send invite to people like Engr. Rauf Aregbesola, former Osun state governor and current Minister of Interior? Why will you exclude people like Akinwunmi Ambode, Otunba Gbenga Daniel and several others?” “These people are South- West APC leaders in their rights and since what will be discussed at the meeting is of National importance, they have written to the conveners to postpone it so that they can be accommodated. They are yet to respond” he said. Also Thursday, the Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo said the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, will not attend the meeting. In a statement by its convener, Kayode Ajulo, the lawyers faulted the composition of the attendees and venue of the meeting, saying Osinbajo will not attend the meeting as the agenda is bias towards favouring a particular aspirant. The statement reads, “The attention of the Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo (PLO) has been drawn to a proposed meeting by some leaders of the APC in South West for the APC presidential aspirants of South West extraction slated to hold on tomorrow, Friday, May 6, at State House, Marina, Lagos. “We want to commend this initiative which we believe was borne out of our earlier call on the Yoruba leaders to hold a strategic conference to provide direction towards the fate of the South West in the coming presidential election. “While it is our utmost desire that such an important meeting be conveyed with a view to establish a consensus harmony between the aspirants of the APC in South West, we want to state clearly that it should be designed appropriately to promote fairness and genuinely of a clear intention. “This above scheduled meeting should have been a welcome development but for the following configurations which were not rightfully designed as it is ought to be: “i. Composition of personality invited: The composition of personality invited for this meeting is a testament to our position that the meeting is a sectional affair of the APC and clearly, not in the interest of the southwest and Nigeria. ii. The Choice of Venue: Lagos Flag House in Marina, Lagos belongs to Lagos State and associates. This venue should not play host to such a meeting if it will be adjudged to be credible and fair. The meeting, if it is in collective good of the people, should be held at a neutral location like Ibadan, Oyo State or Akure, Ondo State. iii. Unclear agenda of the meeting: We can state for a fact that the motive of this meeting is inexplicit and undefined to many of the invited aspirants as most of them were never engaged. The manner at which the meeting is conveyed like a secret proceeding shows that the conveners have no defined agenda productive enough to be for the benefits of all”. iv. An already drafted communiqué: Information at our disposal has it that a communiqué has already been prepared, and in favour of a particular aspirant. This document is currently in circulation among some of the invitees. “The above stated positions have lent credence to the incredibility of the proposed meeting as well as unreliability of same as a compass for the Southwest in the 2023 presidential election. “We want to reiterate in clear terms that our recent call was directed at notable, respected and apolitical Yoruba leaders, who are genuinely interested in the development of the South West and Nigeria; leaders who patriotically and tenaciously hold on to the history and heritage of Yorubaland and the upliftment of the masses against inordinate personal gains. “It is on this premise that we look forward to a meeting convoked by Southwest of note like Chief Afe Babalola, Chief Femi Okunnu, Pa. Ayo Adebanjo, Chief Wole Olanipekun, Prof. Tunde Adeniran, Prof. Bolaji Akinyemi, Iba Gani Adams, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba and frontline traditional rulers in South West as well as the Governors from the Region”. “It is undoubted and without gainsay that the meeting as conveyed with a pre-written communiqué without the inclusion of the above-mentioned notable statesmen on the list of invitees is premeditated and planned to serve a purpose which will apparently not be beneficial to the southwest and Nigeria.”