In pursuit of its role-modelling mission of clinching the status of the Best University in West Africa as a stepping stone to a higher global rating, the Lagos State University has organised and hosted a one-day brainstorming workshop towards chatting the pathway to better intellectual and human resource delivery at the Ivory Tower. Tagged Revamping Academic Culture Towards Achieving Academic Excellence In Lagos State University, the Workshop proved a harvest of intellectual fruits as it paraded academic giants and veterans like Distinguished Prof. Peter Okebukola (Emeritus), Prof. Nimi Briggs (Emeritus); Prof. Michael Faborode, Prof. Dapo Asaju. -Advertisement- The gathering of these titans who have seen it all in the Ivory Tower was hosted by Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, the Vice-Chancellor, of Lagos State University. Giving her remarks to declare the workshop open, she noted that the occasion was a defining moment in the varsity’s history in pursuit of the mission to restore the culture of excellence, even as she stated that “returning to the academic culture of excellence is non-negotiable”. POLL She continued: “The Culture of an environment forms the foundation of the acquisition of knowledge. hence academic culture has a great impact on academic excellence.  Without a doubt, academic excellence can only be achieved by creating an environment that fosters intellectual, social and ethical growth, which will lead to success and career fulfilment. “….This is the reason we have invited international renowned scholars to guide us through the journey, as well as provide us with the road map to achieve our desire. “I am confident that at the end of this workshop, we will have been able to acquaint ourselves with the pedagogy of effective teaching that will facilitate academic excellence; realise the significance of quality and cutting-edge research, as well as the path to follow and discover how the synergy between the Town and Gown can connect robustly with our University Senate to achieve more in terms of academic excellence. “On our part as a management, we shall keep working patiently at building the academic culture that will foster positive action, make us better prepared and become more successful now and in the future.” She gave glowing remarks in praise of Professor Okebukola, (LASU’s own Distinguished and Emeritus); Nimi Briggs (another Emeritus Prof. of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and revered former VC of UNIPORT), Prof. Michael Faborode, (also a former VC, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife; Prof. Dapo Asaju, a former VC, Bishop Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo. Displaying his characteristic pedagogic attribute at the workshop, Prof. Peter Akinsola Okebukola, tutored the audience on effective teaching, even as he insisted that lecturers must employ all thinkable skills and methods to impart knowledge to their students in the most comprehensible way possible. The born teacher and tested academic of global traverse compelled the participants to the reminder that the gathering was tagged a workshop; hence, ensured that everyone had a feedback to give even as he made them all recall their best and worst lecturers (though unnamed) in their university days. He also took the audience through the rudiments of teaching from the revision of a previous lesson to the introduction of the new topic down to the comprehensible sink down of the day’s lesson. On his part, Prof Nimi Briggs did a masterly discharge on Town and Gown connect through a robust University Senate whereby the academic community of the varsity keeps a healthy, symbiotic relationship with the host environment and other stakeholders. To Prof Faborode who spoke on Research, academics are not supposed to see scholarly publications as a means merely for promotion but for effective impact via relevance to solving a target problem globally.  