From time to time, every standard infertility diagnosis process would not unravel the basis for the inability to get pregnant. the doctor simply can’t figure out why? Undiagnosed infertility is responsible for about 20 percent of infecundity in couples. If you have tried to get pregnant for a year or more and your doctor has found no obvious problem, such as blocked fallopian tubes, you have what doctors call ‘unexplained infertility’. This does not mean you won’t conceive. The question most people want to ask is: since nothing is wrong with me, I should just wait, when its time I will conceive! Unfortunately, the longer it takes for undiagnosed infertile couple to get pregnant, the less likely it will ever happen without fertility intervention especially if female partner is beyond 31 years. The chances in this category are about 10 percent in a 36-month trying period. So, in essence, visiting a fertility care provider upon basic laboratory investigations might be able to shorten the ordeal of waiting time to pregnancy. -Advertisement- Unlike the conventional assisted reproductive techniques, appropriate timing of when to have sex for reproduction (Timed Sexual Intercourse) or intra uterine insemination (IUI/ mild ovarian stimulation with sperm washing) will increase chances of conception by almost two folds. These two approaches are relatively affordable but might require a cycle to three attempts that is three months or so. Undiagnosed Infertility, Female Age The likelihood of a diagnosis of undiagnosed infertility is increased substantially in women 35 and over – and greatly increased in women over 38. The reason for this is that there are more likely to be egg quantity and quality problems as women age. Since we do not have a ‘standard category called egg factor infertility, these couples sometimes get lumped in to the “undiagnosed ” infertility category. Most women over 40 who try to get pregnant will have difficulty, and fertility over age 44 is rare – even in women who are ovulating regularly every month. The point is that the older the female partner, the more likely that there is an egg related issue causing the fertility problem. Unfortunately, there is currently no specific test for ‘egg quality.’ What Is Standard Infertility Testing? POLL The definition of what “standard testing” consists of is not agreed upon by all experts. Medical studies have reported that 0-26% of infertile couples have unexplained infertility. The most commonly reported figures are between 10 – 20 percent of infertile couples. However, those percentages are from studies in which all the women had laparoscopy surgery to investigate the pelvic cavity for pelvic scarring and endometriosis. Laparoscopy surgery is no longer done as part of the routine fertility workup. Therefore, finding all of the causes of infertility is not achievable as before – leaving many more couples in the undiagnosed category. Mild Endometriosis Some experts would also consider infertility associated with mild endometriosis to be in the ‘unexplained’ category. This is because a cause and effect relationship has not been definitely established between mild endometriosis and fertility problems. Undiagnosed infertility like many other health conditions can be treated successfully in the fertility clinic centres more. But when couples have invested over six unproductive months in hands of a regular physician regardless of the female partners age, its about time they went to see a reproductive specialist before it become too late. Otherwise, it might become almost impossible waiting chances of spontaneous pregnancy. In modern practice, the literature will encourage couple to give artificial insemination shot a couple of times (3) before ruling it as ineffective to consider In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) as last resort. But, in an economically stricken country like Nigeria or the majority of African countries, IVF is the best to option to solve the puzzle without messing up with the client emotions and wallet. Why? Should IUI fail repeatedly, it might be daunting for couples to push further due to economic pressure. The success rate of IVF is a step above IUI. Also, IVF can be more engaging and trusting for couple as more drugs more activities are involved. The eggs of the woman is harvested and fertilisation (conception and development) is demonstrable to the couple in the visualization of the embryos (babies at the cellular level) and selection of best ones for intra-uterine transfer and the journey of life begins. All these processes are not available in IUI and they far more soothing to couples. Good enough none of these procedure lead to painful experience but perhaps a bit of discomforts depending on patient pain threshold. Finally getting pregnant at once with IUI is relative to maternal age, if a woman is less than 35 years, she is likely to succeed once or twice in ten attempts while older women will experience as low as five chances. But in any event IUI is a far better route to motherhood as against natural attempts in undiagnosed infertile couples. Today Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) has become the forward for many couples. Dr Olaleke Fasasi (PhD) is Director of Embryology Services, Omega Golden Fertility, Lagos. He is a seasoned Reproductive and Translational Medicine Scientist. He’s a Specialist in all Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART). Visit: www.omegagoldenfertility. com for more details Email: info@ omegagoldenfertility.com