Ovulation disorders are among the most common causes of infertility in women. Caused by problems with the regulation of reproductive hormones, ovulation disorders are defined as disturbances in the production of an egg (also known as an oocyte or ovum) during a woman’s menstrual cycle. The disorders often occur as a result of conditions such as, Hypothalamic dysfunction, either hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism and Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Other causes are, premature ovarian failure and too much prolactin, a hormone that, among many other functions, promotes breast milk production. Hypothalamic dysfunction: Hypothalamic dysfunction is a problem with part of the brain called the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus helps control the pituitary gland and regulates many body functions. -Advertisement- Hypothalamus dysfunction can lead to absent or delayed puberty and no sense of smell, as in Kallman syndrome. This is a genetic condition that causes problems with the hypothalamus. It means you would not have enough hormones for sexual development. The most common causes of hypothalamic dysfunction are surgery, traumatic brain injury, tumors, and radiation. The hypothalamus is a highly complex structure in the brain that regulates many important brain chemicals. Malfunction of this area of the brain may give rise to cluster headaches. The central nervous system comprises the brain and spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system includes all peripheral nerves. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS): Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a hormonal disorder common among women of reproductive age. Women with PCOS may have infrequent or prolonged menstrual periods or excess male hormone (androgen) levels. The ovaries may develop numerous small collections of fluid (follicles) and fail to regularly release eggs. The exact cause of PCOS is unknown. Early diagnosis and treatment along with weight loss may reduce the risk of long-term complications such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease. POLL Premature Ovarian Failure: Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), also known as premature ovarian failure, happens when a woman’s ovaries stop working normally before she is 40. Many women naturally experience reduced fertility when they are about 40 years old. They may start getting irregular menstrual periods as they transition to menopause. Symptoms Depending on an ovulation disorder’s cause and the hormones affecting ovulation, symptoms will vary. In some cases, infertility may be the only symptom. Others include: Irregular periods — Irregular or absent periods are common. Mood changes — These generally include anxiety, depression and nervousness. Weight changes — Weight gain often coincides with hypothyroidism, while weight loss occurs with hyperthyroidism. Treatment Options Treatments for ovulation disorders are focused on improving the quality and frequency of ovulation. Some treatments include; Fertility medications, lifestyle changes, Thyroid hormone replacement therapy, among others. Fertility medications — Both oral and injectable fertility medications can stimulate the ovaries to produce and release eggs. Most women will respond to an oral medication, which requires minimal monitoring. If a patient does not respond to oral medication, she will begin injectable medications that will need closer monitoring by a doctor. Lifestyle changes – In addition to medication for thyroid conditions, patients are encouraged to make lifestyle changes. Keeping weight at optimal levels, regular exercise and stress relief methods are suggested. Thyroid hormone replacement therapy – For patients with hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, thyroxine (T4) helps bring thyroid levels back into healthy ranges. Doctors monitor patients on these medications, which are most often taken orally, to make sure they are not taking too much or too little. If you are experiencing signs or symptoms of an ovulation disorder, you can consult your doctor.