With a high-class cabin, a smooth ride, and space for the whole family, it’s easy to see why the Palisade has been a hit for Hyundai. The brand’s largest Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) runs the gamut from its value-oriented base trim to the swanky Calligraphy model that does its best impression of a Genesis GV80. A 3.8-liter V-6 engine resides under the Palisade’s hood and delivers its smooth 291 horsepower through an eight-speed automatic transmission. Many connectivity and technology features are standard across the range, while top models get luxuries such as a panoramic sunroof, in-dash navigation, and quilted leather upholstery. No matter which trim you choose, the Palisade’s cabin is a spacious, comfortable place for the whole family. -Advertisement- What’s New for 2023? A facelift for the 2023 model year to gives the Palisade a more squared-off appearance. The new look is enhanced by updated wheel designs and the cabin has received some new features. The Palisade’s instrument panel has a higher-resolution 12.0-inch infotainment display, a redesigned steering wheel, and updated upholstery options. New features include a Wi-Fi hotspot, heated third row seats, and a massaging driver’s seat. A rugged-looking XRT model joins the lineup and comes with 20-inch wheels, blacked-out exterior trim, and other design flourishes. POLL The Palisade’s biggest competitor has always been the mechanically similar Kia Telluride, but that model is also due for a refresh this year, which means the rivalry is sure to continue. Engine, Transmission, and Performance The Palisade is powered by a 3.8-litre V-6 and comes standard with an eight-speed automatic transmission. The engine’s 291 horsepower provides adequate acceleration for a vehicle like this. The Palisade’s transmission can be manually shifted with steering-wheel-mounted paddles. The gearbox shifts smoothly on its own; but there’s some busy shuffling of the ratios when climbing hills. Front-wheel drive is standard, while all-wheel drive is optional on SE, SEL, and Limited trim levels; it’s standard on the range-topping Calligraphy. All Palisade models come standard with a transmission cooler and trailer pre-wiring and sway control. It is rated to tow up to 5000 pounds when equipped with the dealer-installed trailer hitch. Fuel Economy and Real-World MPG According to the EPA, the front-wheel-drive Palisade achieves a rating of 19 mpg city and 26 mpg highway. When equipped with all-wheel drive, the Palisade is rated at 19 city and 24 mpg highway. Interior, Comfort, and Cargo The SE and SEL trims seat eight passengers, while the Limited and Calligraphy have second-row captain’s chairs that reduce passenger capacity to seven. Either way, there’s plenty of space in all three rows for occupants. The second row features a button to move the seat forward for easy access to the third row. Noise from the road is suppressed; however, a large amount of wind noise penetrates the doors. Power-folding second- and third-row seats are optional on the SEL and standard on the Limited and Calligraphy. Cargo volume with all the seats folded is 86 cubic feet, and the Palisade fit 33 carry-on suitcases in our testing. With the second row in the upright position and the third row folded, stowage totals 46 cubic feet. With the third row in use, the volume shrinks to a modest 18 cubes. There is space underneath the load floor to store muddy or wet items. The cubbies in the doors are tight, but there is reasonable storage within and below the center console. Infotainment and Connectivity A 12.0-inch touchscreen infotainment display with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, in-dash navigation, SiriusXM satellite radio, and Bluetooth connectivity is standard on all trims. Up to seven USB ports are available and you can connect two Bluetooth devices simultaneously. When equipped with Hyundai’s Blue Link app service, the Palisade can be locked, unlocked, and started remotely through Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Safety, Driver-Assistance Features On top of the standard safety equipment, nearly every advanced safety system can be added on higher trim levels. For more information about the Palisade’s crash-test results, visit the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) websites. Key safety features include standard automated emergency braking with pedestrian detection, standard lane-departure warning with lane-keeping assist and standard adaptive cruise control with semi-autonomous driving mode