 Eight months after submitting the interim report on the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) aircraft crash of May 21, 2021, the Accident Investigation Bureau-Nigeria (AIB-Nigeria) said it has suspended further investigation into the crash. -Advertisement- This is as the bureau on Wednesday in Abuja released three final aircraft accident reports, which happened between October 3, 2018 and September 9, 2019. The accidents involved Max Air, Azman Air and Nigeria Police aircraft. Engr. Akin Olateru, the Commissioner, AIB-N, in a question and answer session at the release of the three reports, regretted that since the agency submitted its interim report on the crash involving Lt.-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, the former Chief of Army Staff in Kaduna State on September 21, 2021, the bureau was unable to continue with the investigation into the crash. Olateru, however, explained that the accident was a military one, which doesn’t compel AIB-N to make the outcome of its investigation public. But, he said that the accident occurred in a civil airport – Kaduna International Airport and AI-N was invited to conduct investigation to unravel the cause of the crash. POLL Olateru explained that it is in the purview of the NAF to make the report public, but lamented that it had not been given most of the information it required to continue with the investigation to the final stage. He said: “We are waiting for NAF to make the report of AIB-N on the accident public. We are unable to continue with the investigation to the final stage because we have not been given the most information that we required. “We submitted the report in 2021 within the 60 days of the accident and this was in line with the Annex 13 of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). We can progress with the report, but we have not been given all we need to continue.” AIB had on September 21, 2021, submitted its interim report on the probable cause of the accident. Attahiru, 54, and 10 others including aides and crew died when the aircraft, Nigerian Air Force King Air-350 they were travelling in crashed in the vicinity of Kaduna Airport on May 21, 2021. The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Oladayo Amao had directed that a joint investigative body consisting of experienced NAF safety officers and the AIB be constituted to investigate the circumstances surrounding the air crash. A statement by AIB-N, had said that the interim report was submitted to NAF by Olateru, to Air Marshal Amao, at his office at NAF Headquarters, Abuja. The report hinted that the submitted report was organised into three sections; the information obtained in the course of the investigation; the analysis of data collected in view of the Board’s Terms of Reference; and the conclusion, which covers the initial findings and immediate recommendations. The statement further emphasized that the final report would contain the flight data recorder readout, the reviewed operator’s and service provider’s standard operating procedures as well as other detailed analysis. On Wednesday in Abuja, AIB-N released the final report on the serious incident involving a Boeing 747-400 aircraft with nationality and registration marks: 5N-DBK operated by Max Air Limited, which occurred at the Minna Airport, Nigeria on September 7, 2019. Also, it released the final report on the serious incident involving Cessna Citation 560 XLS aircraft with nationality and registration marks 5N-HAR operated by the Nigerian Police Airwing, which occurred at Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Airport, Bauchi, Nigeria on October 3, 2018. Besides, the final report on the serious incident involving a Boeing 737-500 aircraft with nationality and registration marks: 5N-AIS operated by Azman Air service Limited, which occurred at Port Harcourt, Nigeria on January 3, 2019 was released by the bureau. According to Olateru, the reports were essential to the fulfilment of AIB-N’s mandate of investigating aircraft accidents and serious incident with the aim of enhancing safety, through safety recommendations issued, thereby assuring safe skies in Nigeria and globally. He assured that AIB-N remained committed, through improving its processes, human capacity and equipment, to fulfill the mandate effectively, purposefully and professionally. He added: “Today, we are releasing three serious incident final reports. Included in the reports are 20 safety recommendations, which were addressed to the regulatory body, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the affected airlines, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), an aircraft manufacturer, the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), among others. “The newly released reports make a total of 75 aircraft accident reports released by the Bureau since its establishment in 2007 and a total of 56 reports released by the current administration from 2017 till date. “This year alone, seven reports have been released. The Bureau has also released a total of 252 Safety Recommendations since inception with 171 of the recommendations released by this administration.”