Chief Osita Chidoka is a former Minister of Aviation and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview monitored on Arise Television, he speaks on the zoning controversy in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and his party. He also speaks on issues of insecurity in the South-East and other issues. Excerpts: What is your reading of the political issues in the country as the nation prepares for the 2023 general elections? What you pointed out is a much challenge in Nigeria. The idea is that our political class has not been able to migrate to issue-based politics because of the nature of the Nigerian state. We are still questioning the idea of Nigeria. So, fundamentally, if you go to the streets of Nigeria and conduct a poll, you will find out that there are many people questioning whether indeed the idea of a multi-ethnic and multi-religious country is the pathway for Nigeria’s future. So, building the Nigerian state is actually where we are today. The problem is that around the world, people are in this turmoil about whether the rightist populist government is the way to go. In Nigeria, the question is the idea of the Nigerian nation and because that is the question, anything about the economy, about how to run Nigeria, is almost secondary to the idea that I want to feel like a member and part of this country. I think that what is at stake is politicians and leadership that can construct a new middle ground. And unfortunately, the kind of president we need in 2023 has to come very much like the Muhammadu Buhari of 2015. He has to carry the trust of Nigerians. If in 2015 Buhari had said to Nigerians let’s remove the fuel subsidy, I’m sure many Nigerians would say if that is what we needed to do then, you can do it. He has eroded the trust and confidence Nigerians gave him in 2015. -Advertisement- But sadly, in 2023 we need a president who Nigerians will trust that he needs to fix the foreign exchange mess, he needs to fix the debt crisis, he needs to put a stop to many expenditure heads to be able to get the country again back on track. Ten years of work is required to reverse this massive degradation of Nigeria’s economy and the ties that bind Nigerians. That is why I feel that this election has more or less not given the opportunity for people to have conversations about Nigeria’s economy but conversations about whether Nigeria as a nation has started the march to nationhood, which is why the zoning and particularly the people in the South are saying zone it to the South, and very specifically, zone it to the South-East because when you say South, it is amorphous entity. The South-West has been president for eight years, vice president for eight years and wants to be president again. That poses in itself a problem to the idea of zoning, so if we are going to zone then it has to be to those who have not been able to get to. But if you say to the south, then what is the purpose? It could better go back to North-East or North-West and it doesn’t matter if the idea of zoning is that the person with the muscle in any region will take it then there is no basis for zoning What is your reaction to the consensus candidates that have emerged from the North and the fact that your party, PDP, has not ruled out the possibility of a presidential candidate from the North? It just goes to what I have told everybody about Nigeria. The idea of a consensus candidate has been tried several times in the North without any effect. At a time, it was Atiku Abubakar, and now, it is Bukola Saraki and Bala Mohammed. So, whenever people say to me that the South-East needs to present a candidate to become a president of Nigeria and that we need to come together, I always say which region of Nigeria has ever come together to produce a candidate. The fact that they couldn’t produce a northern consensus candidate, saying that two people are consensus, proves the point that politics is a contest, a process of mobilization and getting people together. Whoever will be a president of Nigeria is more not likely to be a president if he is a candidate of a zone. Buhari tried for 12 years as a candidate of the North, but he couldn’t leave the North until he moved to the South-West, where he got a new consensus that gave him a national appeal. What makes you popular in your zone tends to earn you distrust in other zones and there is no basis for that kind of conversation in Nigeria. We have always argued for the Igbo presidency that the rest of Nigeria should choose the Igbo man of their choice. It is not for the Igbos to give you a candidate. Whoever we give you will not be acceptable to the rest of the country. They will find a reason why the man is too Igbo in his behaviour or being controlled by forces in Igbo land. When Chief Olusegun Obasanjo became president, he was roundly rejected in the South-West but the rest of the country chose him. When we chose Umaru Yar’Adua, he didn’t win some of the key states in the North. POLL Even President Shehu Shagari; I keep reminding the young people that the idea of two-thirds when it was argued up to Supreme Court, the state in contention was Kano. Shagari didn’t make 25 per cent of the votes cast in Kano because Aminu Kano was on the ballot. He didn’t win in Borno but he won in Cross Rivers, Benue, Kwara, Niger, Sokoto and Bauchi states. So, the idea of zoning is that if you zone to the South-East, the rest of the country will make up their mind whether they want Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, who has knowledge of the presidency or Peter Obi, who brings to the table, prudent financial management and his record of governance in Anambra State or Governor Dave Umahi, who they believe has done a lot of infrastructural projects in his state. It is the rest of the country that will make that decision. Igbo votes cannot make anyone president and the idea of consensus is dead on arrival. In 2019, it was voted to the North with 12 presidential candidates and we spent all night trying to get them to step down to reduce the number but none of them agreed to step down. It didn’t mean that the North was in disarray but it means that a political contest is when people feel that they have something to offer and then the public would make their choice. I think that the PDP is in a dilemma and the dilemma is that the only zoning they can do now is to zone to the South-East. Anything short of zoning to the South-East cannot be considered as zoning. Two mistakes have been made, one was that the South-East argument for zoning ought to have been heightened sometime in 2020 for the party to have taken that decision as we took for the North two years before the election. So, everybody from other zones who wants to run can go to another party. Six months to an election and one month to the primaries, PDP is now in a dilemma. How do we tell people who have bought the forms not to participate in the primaries? But the truth of the matter is that the question before the country is to decide whether the South-East is a critical part of Nigeria and has become an accepted part of our nation, if so there is no basis for anybody to argue that you cannot zone to the South-East either in PDP or APC. When we zoned to the South- West, PDP didn’t win in the South- West because we got 15 per cent of the votes in the South-West in 1999. So, not being able to get votes in the South-East does not preclude APC from doing what is right, which is building national consensus. We have to build this nation because if the two parties present Igbo candidates, I can tell you that the question will now be what these people have to offer to the country. The argument would shift from where they come from to what they have to bring to the table. But once we default our fault lines on the southern and northern presidency, then the argument changes and the conversation becomes almost an identity politics. So, I think it is in the best interest of the country to continue that tradition that started in 1999. In 1999, we had two South-West people and we chose the person we like. In 2007, two northerners and we chose the northerner we want. In 2011, that trajectory was broken unfortunately because of the death of President Yar’Adua. I’m saying that it is time for us to return to that trajectory because in 2019.