ABUJA – The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, Honurable Muktar Aliyu Betara, has emerged unopposed the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for Biu, Bayo, Kwaya/Kusar and Shani Federal Constituency of Borno State ahead of the 2023 National Assembly polls. Hon. Betara, who recently received overwhelming support from the people of his constituency, who contributed money to purchase the nomination and expression of interest form for him is coming back to the House for the fifth term unopposed. The primary election that took place in the Local government Areas featured a massive turnout of supporters who came to witness the formality of their illustrious son picking the ticket for the first without any challenger. -Advertisement- All the delegates from his four Local Government Areas making up the federal constituency affirmed his nomination through the ballot monitored by INEC and APC officials. Below is a breakdown of the result announced by the Returning Officer, Dr. Amadu Umar Babaye, from the National working Committee of APC on Wednesday: In Shani local government, the total number of delegates accredired were 55, with 55 votes cast, out of which 51 were valid and 4 were invalid. In Bayo, a total number of accredited delegates were 50, with 50 valid votes cast. Same with Kwaya where 50 delegates were accredited, but only 44 cast their votes out of which 38 were valid, while 6 were declared invalid. POLL In Biu, a total of 55 delegates were accredited with a total of 55 votes cast, just as they were all valid. In the end, Hon. Muktar Betara Aliyu polled 194 votes to authenticate his candidacy. Betara’s constituents who were present at the venue were full of excitement aa they celebrated with the lawmaker, just as majority of the women were heard chanting solidarity song “Say Betara”, “Say Betara.” They listed his numerous achievements to include the provision of road infrastructure, education, scholarships, women empowerment, skills acquisition among others. In his acceptance speech, the lawmaker thanked his constituents for the show of love He said” I am happy my people want me back because i am always on ground for them. This has shown how much they appreciate my effort and i will keep doing more for them.” “I want to use this medium to thank everyone for believing in me”, together we will work to achieve goals for the good of our Constituents. Recall that Rep. Betara’s Constituents had scored the lawmakers achievements in the state very high, saying they have “never had this good before.” Many who chanted solidarity song as “Sai Bobi”, “Sai Betara, described him as “a man of the people.”