The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Tuesday inaugurated the various screening and Appeal committees destined for the 36 States to screen national assembly Aspirants with a warning that effort to elect leaders during the transition period present unique challenges. Senator Abubakar Kyari, Deputy National Chairman North, who stood for Abdullahi Adamu the party’s National Chairman at the inauguration, therefore asked the committees to stick to the APC constitution, Electoral Act and the Nigeria constitution in their decision to clear or disqualify Aspirants. He said the mission to screen the state assembly Aspirants is key to the primaries of the ruling party and urged the committees to ensure justice is done to all Aspirants. -Advertisement- Also speaking at the event Suleiman Muhammad Argungu, National Organizing Secretary described the assignment as Special and critical to the success of the party at the poll in 2023.He lost the minimum requirements for the committee to include educational requirements; payment of form fees which qualifies each aspirant to contest; sponsors and if anybody goes against Section 84(3) of the electoral acts as amended stands disqualified. “All these and more are in the guidelines that would be given to each group. And also, we would provide each group with aspirant assessment verification form that you will ensure you follow diligently to ensure you do justice to each of the aspirant who has purchased forms and submitted” The party he said is expected to “elect 5 delegates per ward and that there are 8,809 wards in the country. Those elected 5 delegates per ward will go to the state and elect the governor; we are going to elect 3 delegates from each of the 774 local governments who will elect the president. But the first job is the screening and the delegates would be elected and the delegates would in turn elect the Guber and presidential candidates. “I think they will have enough time. Don’t forget that we are not working alone, we have our state executive that we are going to work with, local government and ward executives across the length and breadth of the country. So, we are not working alone.