Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, on Tuesday, officially inaugurated the 3km Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road within the Abeokuta metropolis. The road which traverses Abekouta South, Obafemi-Owode and Ewekoro LG, was one one the roads started by the immediate past administration in the state. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony at the popular Panseke Junction, Abiodun described the event as symbolic, as the road was one of the inherited road projects from his predecessor. -Advertisement- He further described the project as fulfilment of his administration’s promise to the people of Ogun state. “This road has a history. It was started on December, 2018. That makes it one of the inherited projects from the immediate past administration. At the inception of our Administration, and, in our usual methodical, strategic and inclusive approach, we inaugurated a committee to consider the status and viability of these inherited projects. “Then, I made a promise to the good people of Ogun State that we will complete all inherited projects that have direct bearing on the development of our dear State. Here we are! We are fulfilling our promises. “Since 29th May, 2019, our dear State has witnessed a new vista in infrastructural development. We thank God that we are here gathered today not only to commission this road, but to fulfil the promise made. This is to show that our words are our bond with the people of Ogun State”, the governor noted. Abiodun explained that the 3km road is particularly of economic importance as it traverses three Local Government Areas and also provides a viable bye pass to the busy Ita-Oshin-Lafenwa end of the Abeokuta-Ifo-Sango-Lagos expressway through Obada Oko. POLL He added that, “on the micro level, this road is an added infrastructure and adds to the aesthetics of this area. It has a reinforced concrete median, a carriage width of 8m in each direction, and reinforced concrete drain and walkway. “More than that, its benefits on the macro level are far greater. It is no doubt an added advantage to the successful implementation of our Transport Master Plan, especially the road transportation aspect of our multi-modal transport agenda.” The governor noted that the people have been enjoying the benefits of the road before the official commissioning, pointing out such underlined the fact that his government is more committed to the provision of amenities that make life easier to the people than the pomp and pegeantry. Abiodun, therefore, charged the people in Ogun State, especially the residents of Panseke-Adigbe-Opako axis, to take ownership of the road and other projects that his administration has continued to provide across the state. “You are to protect them as they are truly yours. By doing this, you will not only partner in the successful implementation of our Administration’s “Building our Future Together” Agenda, but also in creating a viable economy for our dear state”, he noted. While acknowledging the dedication and cooperation of all those behind the successful completion of the project, the governor sought the people’s continued support for his administration in the drive to provide more infrastructure to the benefits of all by paying their taxes and other levies regularly as and when due.