Jurgen Klopp reveals he snubbed Bayern Munich ‘a few times’ but stuck with Liverpool to ‘enjoy the journey’. The iconic German manager made the surprise admission ahead of the Reds’ FA Cup final against Chelsea, using it as an example of why winning isn’t everything. Klopp moved to Anfield in 2015 to manage a club in disarray, with a sub-par squad following the departures of Luis Suarez and Steven Gerrard, and only one trophy in the previous eight seasons. -Advertisement- Fast forward seven years, and Klopp has recently signed a two-year contract extension after guiding Liverpool to their first league title in 30 years, and their sixth European Cup. But, if winning was all that mattered, he likely would have gone long ago, as he’s now revealed. “I could have gone to Bayern a few times,” Klopp said. “I could have won more titles in my life, pretty sure I would say, I didn’t do it. “I had a contract here and I never went to Bayern. That’s completely fine. The world is not full of winners, the world is full of triers hopefully. “And I try and sometimes I win with some other people together. I am happy with that.” POLL Liverpool are still in with a chance of an unprecedented English quadruple trophy win, looking to add to their February Carabao Cup triumph. It’s the longest any team has been in all four competitions, but as Klopp explained it’s not about the end, it’s about the journey, and there’s no place he’d rather do it. He said: “Which club should I go to to have a different situation? Tell me. “The only thing I could do is ask Pep [Guardiola] if he is sick of all that winning and I take over at City! Is that the idea? That wouldn’t work, I don’t want to do it. “This club went through incredibly tough periods and always hit back, and if people can’t appreciate the time we are in or the team they have I would really feel for them because it’s fantastic what these boys do. “If we are all only happy when winning when your race finishes what life would that be? When I say ‘Enjoy the journey’ I mean it. Enjoy the journey as there have been so many great moments already. “If we stop now it’s not great then we didn’t win the FA Cup final and didn’t win the Champions League final and came second in the Premier League. “Forget that and just say ‘Wow, that was a ride’. We only cause ourselves problems as human beings – ‘Don’t come home without a quadruple’, for example – you will never be happy. If that is the only way to satisfy you then I can’t help you.”