A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ekiti State Chapter, Sen. Opeyemi Bamidele has expressed his appreciation to the leadership of the party and former aspirants for ensuring that he emerged as the sole candidate for Ekiti Central Senatorial Distirct for the 2023 General Elections. Bamidele, who spoke after he was screened by the APC Senatorial Screening Panel in Abuja, pledged to redouble his efforts,  to ensure that the party emerged victorious at the forthcoming June 18, 2022, Governorship Elections in the State. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, has declared that he won’t take the electorate and party men for granted despite emerging as the APC senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central for the 2023 elections, in an unopposed fashion. -Advertisement- Bamidele stated that this respect would further buoy his spirit to serve the people more zealously than he had exhibited in the last three years at the Senate. Bamidele, who is also the  Chairman of the Southern Senators Forum in the current ninth Assembly, saluted the APC members in Ekiti Central for displaying immense love, by allowing him to emerge without contest, describing this as an impetus for him to serve better and more committedly. The federal lawmaker commended the Screening Committee for proper organisation and conduct of the screening process, branding the exercise as hitch-free, interactive and devoid of witch-hunting. “I do not take this respect for granted that I am being returned unopposed as the flagbearer of our party in the 2023 Ekiti Central Senatorial elections. I know what it entails to contest any primary. “This means so much to me. I am grateful to the leadership of APC in Ekiti State and grateful to the leadership of the party at the National level. I am also grateful to the people of Ekiti Central Senatorial District for this honour. I don’t take it for granted at all. POLL “That no one is running against me in this race for the ticket of the party is an endorsement of my humble efforts in ensuring effective representation in the Senate in the last three years. “It is also an acknowledgement by the leadership of the party and members of the party that I could be entrusted with the position of an elected Representative of the people and one of the leaders of our people in this tough time. “It is not that we don’t have equally qualified people or eligible people who can obtain the form. But the fact that this has not happened and the leadership of the party has done so much to ensure that I am given a smooth ride to be the candidate of the party, is, to be a sincere and profound effort and from whom to whom much is given, much is also expected. ” It is a call to further and greater duty.  I will do everything possible to ensure the unity of the party through meaningful reconciliation where it is still necessary to do so and to ensure to drive a process in which there will be integrity and mutual trust.” On the impending Ekiti Governorship Election, Bamidele said: “Going back home, we have an immediate assignment, which is to go and campaign thoroughly and vigorously to ensure the victory of our party in the June 18 Governorship Election. “I believe that is the next assignment I am looking forward to and I will put in my best in this regard by the Grace of God.”