Lagos  – The Federal Government has said it hopes to generate $30 billion from Free Trade Zones (FTZs) in annual export earnings and create 1.5 million jobs by 2025, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, said. The Free Trade Zones would also boost manufacturing’s share of Gross Domestic Products to 20 percent by 2025, improve the utilisation of Nigeria’s factor endowments and comparative advantage by 2025 and create local models of global best practices in provision of hard and soft infrastructure and an enabling business environment. Adebayo spoke in Lagos at the road show for the concession of Calabar and Kano Free Trade Zones. -Advertisement- He said the two FTZs when fully developed within a coherent, well-designed and executed framework can deliver tangible outcomes like their counterparts in other climes where FTZs have contributed significantly to their economic development. He also said the advent of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) has also made it imperative that the two zones (owned by the Federal Government) are revived, reformed and transformed into world class standard to make them functional and globally competitive. He added, “Based on this, the Federal Government through the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) under the chairmanship of His Excellency, Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, GCON, SAN and of which I am a member approved the reform of Calabar and Kano FTZs through concession. ‘’The concession model is adopted to ensure that private sector investors with the requisite technical competence and financial capability that would emerge from a competitive transparent process are allowed to invest, operate and manage the facilities for certain number of years while the ownership remains with the Federal Government. “The event today is therefore a demonstration of the Federal Government’s commitment, desire and implicit confidence in the ability of private sector not to only reinvigorate Calabar and Kano FTZs, but to make them functional, competitive, explore the huge potential of Af- CFTA to enable the country achieve rapid, inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, create jobs, and diversify her export earnings”. POLL Speaking, the Director- General of Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex Okoh, said the showcase provides an opportunity to not only showcase the two zones but also to interact with potential investors, receive some feedbacks and provide some clarifications as regards the transactions. He said following the submission of the responses, an evaluation will be carried out and the list of qualified bidders for the next stage will be announced. “We anticipate that these transactions will attain commercial close (that is, signing of the concession agreements) by December of this year,” he said. He assured all stakeholders that all activities leading to the successful conclusion of these transactions would be carried out in line with best global practices as well as the stipulated ICRC guidelines. He added, “The expectation of the Federal Government in undertaking the concession of the FTZs is that it should be able to catalyse business in the West African sub-region, through strategic production of goods and services that optimise the vast potential of the industrial axis of Cross River and Kano states, respectively. “Similarly, it is government’s expectation that the FTZs must move beyond the disjointed clusters of business premises to worldclass special economic zones comparable to their counterparts globally.”