elev8, the world leader in digital training initiatives, recently launched the Digital Center of Excellence in Doha, Qatar, together with the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and Microsoft, to accelerate sustainable human development and digital transformation in line with the National Vision of Qatar 2030. elev8 consolidates its operation in the Middle East with a modern campus for training in new technologies It is a modern training center, the first of its kind in Qatar and the region, located in Msheireb Downtown Doha, joining the global expansion of elev8, which currently operates in Nigeria and Costa Rica. -Advertisement- The event was held a few days ago under the auspices of His Excellency Mr. Mohammed bin Ali bin Mohammed Al Mannai, Minister of Communications and Information Technologies, and a high representation of government officials and private sector executives. The initiative seeks to create a highly qualified and competitive workforce for a fast-growing, diversified, technologically advanced economy. The center is expected to play a vital role in building the talent pool that will help accelerate the digital transformation of government institutions and private sector companies. “Digital transformation is no longer an option; Qatar must improve its competitiveness at a regional and global level. “ Our wise leadership realized this many years ago. It has managed to achieve significant milestones in reducing the digital skills gap by launching many partnerships and initiatives, the most important of which is the Digital Center of Excellence, established with our partners Microsoft and elev8. POLL “These efforts are vital to ensure that more people in Qatar have the advanced digital skills necessary to enable an open and flexible economic environment, capable of competing in a changing world and building a knowledge economy based on research, development, innovation, and excellence in entrepreneurship,” said H.E. Mohammed bin Ali bin Mohammed al-Mannai, Minister of Communications and Information Technology, during his opening speech. María Balbás, President of elev8, said that the partnership with Microsoft and the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology marks a crucial moment in Qatar’s digital transformation journey to create a highly-skilled workforce with essential digital skills for success in the fourth industrial revolution.