LAGOS – The women national bas­ketball team, D’Tigress, have pleaded with the federal government to reverse the two-year with­drawal from international bas­ketball. Only last week Thursday, the federal government announced the country’s withdrawal from international basketball for two years on the premise of the leadership crisis rocking the Nigeria Basketball Federation. The government promised to use the period to resolve the crisis in basketball, promising to set up an Interim Manage­ment Committee that will ad­minister the sport and address other related issues bordering on the development of the sport. -Advertisement- The government reiterated its interest and commitment to the development of the sport and also the huge talents abound domestically, stating that it wants all these to happen in an atmosphere that is free of rancour and squabbles. The government called on players, officials, fans, and oth­er stakeholders to remain calm as it embarks on far-reaching initiatives to reposition, sus­tain and stabilize the sport for growth and success in the long-term. However in a statement on Friday, the women team cap­tain, Adaora Elonu, speaking for her colleague, disagreed with the ban. “This ban is taking away all our future competitions, accomplishments and goals to elevate, inspire, and make Ni­geria proud,” she stated. “We would like to be given the opportunity to play for our country that we passionately love to represent in this upcom­ing FIBA Women’s World Cup. POLL “We have worked very hard to be three times Afrobasket Champions, Olympians and now we are blessed with an­other opportunity to continue that representation for Nigeria. “We want Nigerian Basket­ball to continue to grow and succeed on every level; from the local leagues, grassroots and even on the international stage. We believe that all levels of Nigerian basketball can ex­cel with the proper attention, togetherness, and organization. “Our team is a testament to how successful Nigerian Bas­ketball can be and how we have been an inspiration to all Nige­rian athletes across the globe. We wish to express our grat­itude to all the coaches, medical staff, organizers, & fans. This ban not only penalizes us but you all as well. Your commit­ment and loyalty to our team will never go unnoticed. We, as the Nigerian Wom­en’s National Team plead for the reversal of the Internation­al Basketball ban,” the state­ment concluded.