LAGOS  – The Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa), brainchild of Abdul Samad Rabiu – philanthropist, industrialist, and Chairman of BUA Group, in collaboration with Rebecca Foundation of Ghana, has commenced the construction of eight multi-functional libraries in schools across Ghana. This is coming a few months after ASR Africa awarded the Rebecca Foundation a $500,000 inaugural Africa-focused basic education infrastructure grant to support the Foundation’s “Learning to Read and Reading to Learn initiative”. Udoh Ubon, Managing Director of ASR Africa, while speaking at the sod-cutting ceremony for the construction of the first library situated in Kwahu Bepong community, Kwahu South District of the Eastern Region in Ghana, commended Rebecca Foundation for its role as the implementing partner of the project, and for their commitment to building a reading culture amongst children in Ghana. -Advertisement- Udoh also thanked the Kwahu Bepong community for providing the land for the construction of the library and noted that the sustainability framework of the project will ensure its sustenance even after it is handed over to the Ghana Library Board for management. He further added that construction of the other libraries will commence over the next few weeks in other communities across Ghana. According to Udoh, “This modern library project seeks to provide Ghanaian children a comparative advantage in competing with their peers all over the world. “This is the beginning of a partnership that will go beyond the library. I can assure you that with what we have seen and with how you have responded to this first grant, we intend to consider future partnerships on other developmental projects”. Rebecca Akufo-Addo, the Ghanaian First Lady, who is also an Executive Director of the Rebecca Foundation, thanked Abdul Samad Rabiu and the ASR Africa initiative for supporting the Foundation to build the libraries, and expressed confidence that before long, the library will be up and running. Represented at the ceremony by Akosua Newman, Director of Operations for the Office of the First Lady, she said that since inception in 2017, Rebecca Foundation had carried out several programmes and infrastructural projects under its “Learning to Read Reading to Learn” initiative in line with the United Nation’s (UN) Sustainable Development Goal 4 (SDG 4) which aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. With our partners from ASR Africa, the Rebecca foundation looks forward to building more of these libraries in other communities”. Rebecca Akufo-Addo added.