Sir Temple Ogueri Onyeukwu, a retired Air Force Officer, three-time candidate of different political parties for the Mbaitoli/Ikeduru (Mbaike) Federal Constituency seat, is a leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the constituency as well as the National Leader, Turning Point Youth Empowerment Initiative. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he speaks on the coming 2023 general elections and other crucial issues. Excerpt: You have contested several times for the Mbaitoli/Ikeduru (Mbaike) Federal Constituency seat. As the elections are approaching, will you contest for the seat in 2023? Mbaike stands for Mbaitoli and Ikeduru Local Government Areas. Mbaitoli is the second largest local government in Nigeria, but shares the Federal Constituency with our sister local government – Ikeduru. At inception, the two sister local governments reached an agreement that each local government shall go once and step down for the other. That is, one tenure each. Hon. Uche Nwole kick-started the process in 1999. At the end of four years, we compelled him to step down for Ikeduru local government. He obliged. Then Rt. Hon. Bethel Amadi of blessed memory stepped in. Before the expiration of his first tenure of four years, he engineered the amendment of the agreement. It now became two tenures per local government. Mbaitoli accepted and did not contest during the second term. It was an all Ikeduru affair and he won for a second term. Again, before the expiration of his second term, he hinted that he wanted a third term. Most people championed by myself were against a third term. He, however, with the conspiracy of some very gullible Mbaike politicians, was declared winner for third term. Thus, Ikeduru at the end of his third term had done 12 years, while Mbaitoli had done only four years. Hon. Nwawuba stepped in and has done eight years, that is two terms, in the spirit of the subsisting agreement between the two local governments. Now that the two local governments are at par, in terms of the number of terms and years by 2023, justice, equity, fairness, integrity and responsibility demands that Ikeduru kick-starts the next round for a two-term period after which the federal constituency seat comes back to Mbaitoli. I encourage all the political parties to choose their candidates for the Mbaike Federal Constituency seat for the 2023 elections from Ikeduru and allow the electorate to elect the best from among all of them. It will amount to a betrayed of trust and irresponsibility for any son or daughter of Mbaitoli to want to context for the federal constituency seat in 2023. I have always insisted that all the political parties micro zone their presidential candidate to the South East for justice, equity and fairness. Anything short of this appears inequitable, unfair in bad faith. Ikeduru local government must produce the next member House of Representatives for Mbaike Federal Constituency. qInsecurity in Nigeria has assumed alarming proportion as the security agencies appear overwhelmed while the executive appears to have run out of ideas. Where do you think the nation should go from here? Insecurity in the country has become hydra-headed. The magnitude is disturbing. Human life does not have value again in Nigeria. A school of thought points that the presidency has the powers to contain the insecurity, while another school of thought tends to blame politicians of Northern extraction for their apparent complicity in alleged massive importation of mercenaries to help prosecute the 2015 presidential and general elections. No matter which divide one leans to, the bottom line remains that all of us are now victims and must solve the problem collectively. Fundamentally, the ability of this country to significantly tackle terrorism and reduce insurgency and banditry to the barest minimum lies in the proper restructuring of the entire political and socio economic configuration of the country. The six geopolitical zones must become proper federating units, the governors must be Chief Security Officers (CSOs) of their states in words and in fact and be able to deploy and control the security apparatchik in their states. The military must be made to face their constitutional mandates and allow state and local government police to handle internal security issues. As long as we continue to deploy the military to do police work and refuse the states and local governments from having their police, we are not ready to fight terrorism and insurgency. Terrorism, insurgency, kidnapping, armed robbery and many other criminal attacks on innocent Nigerians have their origin among the locals. If the youths in any community organise themselves and agree that there will be no attack on their community, come what may, they will make all necessary sacrifices to protect their community. A situation where weapons of mass destruction are illegally in the hands of non-state actors while law abiding citizens cannot defend themselves is unacceptable. The government has failed to protect lives and property which is the primary essence for its existence the government must rethink it strategies immediately before the nation finally slides into anarchy. It is insanity to continue to adopt an approach that did not work in the past, has not worked and is not working. Why are the political benefactors afraid of restructuring the country to true federalism? Nigeria is rapidly retrogressing. It is either we restructure now or await the dooms day which appears not too far away. Restructuring does not connote the disintegration of Nigeria. Nigeria exited the Paris and London clubs debt traps during the Obasanjo administration. Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and that executive negotiated Nigeria out of that debt burden. Since 2015, Nigeria has been borrowing, and it appears to be headed for economic strangulation in the near future. What is your take on this? Essentially, this is part of the reasons for Nigeria to restructure. Where a part is too lazy not to generate revenue to sustain its economy and goes a borrowing, it then bears the cost of its ineptitude. It disturbs me when trillions of naira is borrowed in the name of Nigeria and no project from the borrowing is sited in the South East where I come from. At the end of the day, my generation and our children will be compelled to pay for funds they did not benefit from. That is part of the systemic injustice in Nigeria. Majority of our borrowing has been allegedly for consumption and servicing previous debts. We have not started repaying the capital. We lack the basic productive capacity. Our local currency will continue to depreciate in the absence of extreme lack of productivity. We appear headed for economic disaster. Petroleum subsidy is one major headaches of this administration regime. How should the government handle this very sensitive issue? POLL The National Assembly just approved further borrowing to fund petroleum subsidy regime. This government has failed to revive the refineries for seven years. The government has not built any additional refineries in seven years. This is one of the greatest areas of failure of this administration. How on earth can we continue to export crude oil and import finished product of the crude? The NNPC recently announced that it bought 20% or there about of Dangote refinery shares for an amount alleged enough to build an equivalent refinery. The monumental corruption in the oil industry is staggering. It ranges from inflation of cost of production per barrel, round tripping in the importation of petrol, over invoicing under-declaration quality produced an outright stealing of crude in connivance with international crude oil thieves on the high sea. If Bayelsa is in charge of the oil in Bayelsa, Rivers in charge of the oil in Rivers, just as Zamfara has been mining the gold in Zamfara State, this economic banditry would have been controlled a nation that uses about 75% of its revenue to service debts is headed for economic strangulation. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has been on strike for several months now. What do you think should be the solution of these incessant strikes? In 2021, about 17,000 Nigerians were admitted to British universities for both undergraduate and post graduate fee paying courses. We have just repatriated about 5,000 Nigerians who were willing to return from Ukraine. All of them studying in the universities there and paying their fees, accommodation, feeding, books and living expenses. Can you imagine the number admitted to study in the USA, Canada, Ghana, Benin Republic and other countries? Why is it difficult for the government to grant our universities full autonomy, allow them to charge appropriate fees, pay their staff, upgrade their infrastructure while the government concentrates on settling and enforcing standards? Education tourism is draining the Nigerian economy more than medical tourism. The Federal Government must not be involved in everything, primary school feeding, unity schools admission, university establishment and control. The duplication of the functions of the local governments, state governments and the Federal Government is a present danger inherent in the constitution we operate today. Until there is a holistic review of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the country will continue to wobble. Until honest men of integrity take up the mantle of leadership, Nigeria will continue to be the laughing stock among the committee of nations. The leadership of Nigeria from 1966 to date can be said to be the most hypocritical, most pretentious and most nepotistic. While always mouthing that the unity of Nigeria is not negotiable, they continue to increasingly adopt the policy of divide and rule, exclusion and nepotism. We know our problems but the present structure cannot bring any solution to the problem of this country. Was Nigeria designed to stagnate or fail? Time will tell.