LAGOS  – Coscharis Motors Plc has stated that it would display three of its major brads at the 17th edition of the 2022 Lagos Motor Fair, which begins Tuesday next week in Lagos. The automobile company mentioned the iconic brands to include Ford, Renault and Ford Trucks. Mr. Abiona Babarinde, the General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, in a statement, stated that apart from the above mentioned brands, the company would also showcase other global products at the fair, which commences on May 30 to June 4, 2022 at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel & Casino, Lagos. -Advertisement- Babarinde hinted that Ford and Renault would feature passenger vehicles, including sedan, Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) and Pick-Up trucks, while Ford Trucks would feature heavy Duty Commercial Vehicles (HDCV) ranging from Tractor Heads to Dump Trucks, Concrete Mixer and Tippers. He assured that the automobile company would delight her numerous customers with special promotional offers across the three brands at the fair, stressing that the highpoint of the motor fair would be the unveiling of a new Ford name plate, BRONCO, into the Nigerian market. He said: “As the exclusive representative of these three brands in Nigeria, we are bringing our showrooms closer to our customers at the fair. Also we are excited to announce that we will be delighting our customers with the many mouth-watering offers we have lined up for them at the motor fair. We are also keen to reveal the latest addition to our Ford brand in Nigeria, the BRONCO.” While at the fair ground, Babarinde stated that Coscharis Motors would also offer vehicle sales, aftersales services, trade-in options and vehicle finance options (in partnership with Coscharis Mobility and some other finance companies) to her customers at the motor fair. He explained that this is in order to deliver a total brand experience to customers and prospects alike when they visit the Coscharis pavilion throughout the duration of the fair.