Ahead of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primaries slated for May 28 and 29, former Vice President and presidential aspirant, Atiku Abubakar on Friday met with the party’s delegates in Lagos State to seek their support. Atiku who addressed the party faithful in the state decried the state of governance in the country while calling on Lagos PDP to make the right ahead of the 2023 general election by supporting the most experienced and competent presidential contender with a proven track record of leadership, especially in the areas of security, economy, and infrastructural development. The former Vice President, who presented letters of appeal to each delegate, counselled the youth leaders to seek the progress of the nation and shun aspirants offering to buy their votes. “If another aspirant gives you money, take it. But do the right thing for the sake of your own future.” -Advertisement- Addressing the youths, Atiku said, “Even during the Civil War, it’s never been this bad. Now, more than ever, we are so divided, because people across this country have been treated unfairly under the current administration. “This country has never seen the level of insecurity that we are facing today. I am here because I have the requisite experience to govern this country well and equitably, to give everyone a sense of belonging. I am here to appeal to your conscience; you have a historic responsibility to bail out this country.” He, also reiterated his promise of 40% youth and women representation in his cabinet, the former Vice President expressed his desire to restore a sense of belonging to marginalized Nigerians. In his remarks, the incumbent Lagos PDP Chairman, Mr Philip Aivoji, welcomed the PDP presidential aspirant and called on the state delegates to ensure the party wins at levels during the forthcoming elections. “I’m glad to receive our presidential candidate. He remains our candidate until we have another congress. All the LGA Chairmen and I are here together as one body. In 2023, by God’s grace, PDP will win all elections, from presidential, House of Representatives, and Senate to governorship and state assembly. In Lagos, everything will be won by the PDP,” Aivoji said. POLL A former Minister of Cooperation and Integration in Africa, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu, in his welcome address, highlighted the track record of the former Vice President, adding that Nigerians have all they need to galvanize their institutional processes and fight their problems. Speaking to Atiku, he said, “Sir, you have your work cut out for you. We have problems with our security and economy. With economic transformation, the issue of power, insecurity, and the like will be solved. With you as president, most of the country’s problems will be taken care of; many people will sleep peacefully and many who have left Nigeria will return home. We have one job to do and that is to make sure you are elected president.” Another PDP chieftain in Lagos, Olumide Thompson, expressed the support of the youth, whom he said represents 70% of the population. The gathering includes former deputy governor, Chief (Mrs) Kofoworola Burknor- Akerele; former minister, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu; Sen. Sumbo Onitiri, Hon. Tolani Animashaun, Sen. Dino Melaye, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, Chief (Mrs) Aduke Maina, Chief (Mrs), present and former Lagos State PDP chairmen, Hon. Phillip Aivoji, Alhaji Muritala Ashorobi and Captain Tunji Selleh, respectively. Others are Hon. Tunji Soyinka, Hon. Adekunle Obasa, Hon. Oghene Egoh, Chief (Mrs.) Onikepo Oshodi, Hon. Wahab Owokoniran; local government chairmen, youth leaders, and members of the State Working Committee, among others.