President Muhammadu Buhari has urged the South-East leaders to allow the court to determine the fate of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. President Buhari stated this on Friday when the Igbo leaders pleaded with him to release Kanu and other Igbo youths in detention across the country during a meeting with leaders from the region at the New Government House in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Speaking at the Executive Council Chambers, the Chairman, South-East Traditional Rulers Council, Eze Charles Mkpuma made the plea while also calling on the President to grant the plea for the South East region to produce the next President come 2023. -Advertisement- “We stand by you in all efforts towards the fight against insecurity in South East and the country in general. We however plead with you as a compassionate father to temper justice with mercy in the case of our son, Nnamdi Kanu. “We have started a dialogue to ensure that all those who feel aggrieved are brought to round table discussion. We shall continue to support you and your administration. Do not listen to those advocating for the interim government for they are inviting anarchy. “We urge you to look inwards and build the rest administration around the South Easterner who has outstanding performance.” Buhari, however, noted that the determination of the court on the matter was necessary. He further expressed dissatisfaction over the spate of insecurity in the country, noting that anybody, (apart from security operatives) seen carrying an AK 47 rifle in any part of the country, should be treated as a criminal. POLL He listed among others, some of the projects being carried out by his administration in the South East region including the reconstruction of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, the ongoing construction of the second Niger Bridge, and the N5.5 billion Diagnostic Centre in Umuahia. Daily Independent had on Wednesday reported that Buhari will on Thursday commence a two-day working visit to Ebonyi with the inauguration of projects at King David University of Medical Sciences, Uburu. The president’s aircraft landed at Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu at about 10. a.m. on Wednesday. Buhari was received by Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State and some governours of the APC, including the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo and his counterpart from Jigawa, Alhaji Badaru Abubakar were also on a solidarity visit to welcome the president to Ebonyi. The president would conclude his visit to Ebonyi with a closed-door meeting with the South-East leaders in Abakaliki before departing for Abuja on Friday.