By: Sir Henry Olujimi Boyo (Les Leba), first published in April 2018 Intro: Last week, this column repub­lished “High Cost of Borrowing: Who is Fooling Who?” The article discusses the impact of economic mismanagement on local business­es and the everyday man. The re­publication can be found by access­ing the link below. -Advertisement- (See www.betternaijanow.com for this series and more articles by the Late Sir Henry Boyo) The overall theme of today’s re­publication, is centered on debunk­ing commonly misconstrued ideas about Nigeria’s economy. It reflects on the 2nd Vanguard Economic Discourse and analyzes the obser­vations of the keynote speaker. In the face of increasing population growth and inflation, without ef­fective practices in place, Nigeria will continue to plunge into debt and poverty. Kindly read on. As you read through the below article taking note of previous events and rates, keep in mind its initial publication (2018). ………………… The above is the title of the lead paper presented at the 2nd Van­guard Economic Discourse, held in Lagos, on Friday 13th April, 2018. POLL The theme was; titled “Economy in Rebound: Pitfalls, Trajectories, and Resetting.” The keynote speaker, Mr. Bode Agusto, CEO of Bode Au­gusto & Co is an ICAN fellow, and a “Finance professional by vocation;” the Guest Speaker admittedly, also, taught himself Economics and In­dustry Analysis, in order to “under­stand how macro-economic issues and economic dynamics impact his client’s finances”. Agusto was Vice President of City Bank Nigeria and also served as Director General and Adviser (Budget Matters) during President Obasanjo’s tenure. Hereafter, some of the keynote Speaker’s salient observations will be highlighted, while related com­ments will be made, wherever nec­essary, by this writer. Bode Agusto, began his presen­tation by debunking the following ‘myths’ in our country. First Myth: “Nigeria is an oil rich country”; False. “In 2013, oil revenue per person was US$520 when crude oil prices averaged US$100/barrel, whereas in Qatar and Kuwait, it was US$31,000 and US$27,000/ person respectively.” Second Myth: “Nigeria’s Pop­ulation is a strength;” False. “Pop­ulation is only a strength if it is well educated and healthy” and if the economy has capacity “to pro­vide them with employment that sustain households’ income to buy the goods and services produced by several businesses.” Third Myth: “Nigeria’s debt to GDP ratio is below 20 percent, so we have one of the lowest ratios and therefore have additional leverage to continue borrowing to finance fis­cal deficits. Incidentally, large popu­lation, does not necessarily generate greater tax revenues; for example, in Nigeria, we don’t (readily) pay taxes, consequently, national debt as a percentage of revenue would be a more meaningful assessment; such a ratio, would immediately spike government’s local currency debts well above 325 percent of all revenues, when compared with the median of 200 percent for countries in Africa and Middle East.” Furthermore, the current annual interest charges on government’s loans are estimated at 50 percent of FGN revenues, “whereas Portugal, for example, with a debt/National income ratio of 130 percent applies only 11 percent of reserves to pay in­terest on her loans!” The presenter disagrees with the notion that “our problems cannot be solved”, and argues instead that, “with sincerity of purpose and pres­ence of mind, our problems, can infact be solved”; consequently, he expects that “we can still return our country to the path of growth and prosperity.” Nonetheless, the Accounts Guru, identifies 5 key sectors as drivers in every economy. The first three sec­tors i.e., the Central government, the external, and the financial sectors, are usually identified as drivers of the other two, i.e., businesses and consumer sectors. Furthermore, inflation, interest and exchange rates are also identified as three key prices in every economy; the rate of inflation is the most import­ant amongst the three key prices, because, it drives both interest and exchange rates. Savvy investors will normally factor inflation rate when making investments, because, an unexpected inflationary rise could erode earlier projected profits. Agusto recognizes that stable exchange rates will not be possible, “If a country cannot effectively keep inflation at best practice levels be­low 3 percent;” furthermore, uncon­trolled population growth may also remain Nigeria’s biggest problem, if population continues to increase by 5 million annually. Agusto’s paper suggests that credible projections indicate that, from 1960-2070 i.e., after 110 years, Nigeria will add over 500 million to her population, whilst the UK would add only 30 million even when UK’s base population of 52 million was initially higher than Nigeria’s in 1960. Consequently, the fear is that we may never produce enough goods and services to keep pace with population growth. The least we can do therefore, according to Agusto, is “to encourage families’ with sanctions and benefits, to just replace themselves by having max­imum of two children.” Sadly, non-oil taxes presently represent only about 4 percent of Nigeria’s National income, while the same non-oil taxes subhead in Ghana, Kenya and South Africa are 16, 17 and 24 percent respectively of national income. Furthermore, available records suggest that gov­ernment’s obligatory annual ex­penditure is already more than 100 percent of actual revenue and therefore, clearly constrains gov­ernment’s ability to spend on social services and infrastructure without resort to more borrowings. Agusto however admonished that; when­ever government has to borrow it must do so at very low interest rate. The financial Guru, is obviously concerned that we may have re­placed Paris Club with Abuja Club debts, as current external debt is $36bn i.e., well in excess of the $32bn paid to exit the controversial London/Paris Debt trap in 2006. The principal holders of these new debts are, notably, the banking system, pension funds and foreign private investors. Consequently, according to Agusto“the finances of the gov­ernment is presently broken and we need to fix it” otherwise “gov­ernment will not be able to fulfill its purpose.” However, in order to fix it, gov­ernment must do unpopular things, such as: population control, cutting of costs, enforcement of tax compli­ances and relinquishment of gov­ernment control over infrastructure spending, while we sell down some of our oil and gas assets and use the proceeds to improve critical infra­structure such as the ports, railways and a robust national grid. However, as for the external sec­tor of the economy, Agusto recom­mends that government should sus­tain Naira/dollar exchange rates, that reflect purchasing power parity and formulate investor friendly pol­icies, that will improve the competi­tiveness of Made-in-Nigeria goods. However, the former Government Adviser, seems bemused that, al­though government is keen to en­sure stable naira to dollar exchange rates, however, government still seems unconcerned with the well over 10 percent difference, in the long-term rate of inflation, between the two currencies. Consequently, “whenever our central bank is short of dollars, they become com­pelled “to allow large devaluations.” This according to Agusto was how “NGN/USD exchange rate moved from 1:1 to 360:1 in our lifetime.” In place of the present regulat­ed exchange rate, Agusto’s paper, recognizes that pegging Naira to dollar is not a viable option because “we don’t have sufficient reserves to back up the 10 percent difference between naira and dollar inflation rates”, consequently the crawling peg option is favoured, because it allows the naira to appreciate or depreciate against the dollar, by a rate which is close to the differ­ence in inflation between the two currencies. Ultimately, in order to protect the Naira exchange rate, the Guest Speaker recommended that infla­tion should be kept below 3 per­cent/annum, while measures, that will support inclusive growth and enhance the “capacity of banks to remain healthy to lend to business­es will be adopted, but government must keep the level of loans within statutory limits.” Sadly, according to Agusto, the present rate of unemployment and underemployment is already close to 30 percent, consequently, a turn­around or increase in the rate of employment will invariably, posi­tively instigate increasing growth of domestic output. Curiously, despite his earlier ad­monition or preference for best prac­tice inflation rates below 3 percent/ annum, Agusto unexpectedly makes a somersault and recommends that Nigeria needs “to prioritize growth and employment above inflation in the short to medium term.” Conse­quently, the Guru moaned that “CBN has prioritized price stability over growth and employment.”“They have chosen to bring down infla­tion by stabilizing exchange rate!” Conversely, Agusto advised that, “if we control our population and grow domestic production significantly, shortages will thin out and inflation will begin to drop.” Unfortunately, Agusto’s other­wise sensible paper, would regret­tably fall flat if CBN abandoned its prime mandate for price stability, at best practice inflation rates below 3 percent as suggested. However, that will be an unwise option; in­structively, inflation will be easily tamed when CBN ceases to fuel the ‘eternal’ systemic Naira liquidity surplus, which drives rising pric­es when it substitutes naira allo­cations for dollar-derived revenue every month. Quite simple really! SAVE THE NAIRA!! SAVE NIGE­RIANS!!