LAGOS – Following alleged erroneous report published in some dailies on Tuesday claiming that one Elijah Adeogun, aka, Akogun, an Estate Developer, was arrested by the DSS, Abeokuta Command, over his alleged involvement in two murder cases as stated in a petition received by the security outfit, Barr. Taiwo Elijah Ogunleye stated that Elijah Adeogun is not a murderer. Barrister Ogunleye however said, Elijah Adeogun is a certified Estate Developer that is well known and respected by many in his community, and especially by those who have benefited from his various land sales, describing his arrest and detention by the Department of State Security (DSS) as an abuse of power and serious disregard for constitutionalism and human rights. Recall that Daily Independent and other dailies reported on Monday the gestapo manner Adeogun was arrested and abducted by unknown gunmen was widely condemned by the public. -Advertisement- The family of Elijah later realised that he was in the custody of the Ogun State Command of the DSS in Abeokuta since Monday morning, after he was forcefully abducted by the operatives of the DSS at his Ota residence at about 2:25 a.m. on May 16, 2022 by gunmen numbering up to 30, who were fully armed and refused to disclose their identity or the reason for the arrest. Elijah’s wife, Mrs. Adeogun said, “At about 1:30 a.m. on May 16, we were awoken by noise around our house. Peeping from the window, I observed that some persons were making effort to gain entry to our residence by breaking down our fence. More than 30 fully armed persons entered through the broken fence and began to hit the main entrance door to our living room with heavy objects before they successfully broke the door.” Mrs. Adeogun added that the sophisticated gun she saw were not for decoration as several shots were fired in the living room and other parts of the house with bullet holes visibly seen in more than five places. Mrs. Adeogun said she could not identify those who invaded her house as security operatives since they were led by someone whom she alleged was a land grabber who had been involved with her husband in several disputes over a period of time. POLL “The armed men were led by the land grabber. I saw him clearly in his red shirt. He was the one showing the other men around.