As the 2023 presidential election gathered momentum across all political parties, former Senate President and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Bukola Saraki has reminded the party delegates of how he defecated the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu to emerge as the Senate President in 2015. Saraki who spoke while appealing to the PDP delegates in Lagos to support his move to secure the party’s presidential ticket said that he remained their own as someone who last defeated the “Emperor of Bourdillon” who vowed that he would not become the senate president. It could be recalled that Saraki, then a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), emerged as senate president in 2015 against the preferred candidate of the party and the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. -Advertisement- Speaking at a meeting with the delegates, Saraki promise the party delegates that if he emerge the PDP flag bearer he would help the party reclaim the state in 2023. According to him, due to the reconciliatory effort he spearheaded, PDP was united in Lagos and many other states like Plateau, Ogun and Oyo. Saraki also said the move by the executive to remove him as senate president failed because he was a team player and his colleagues had confidence in him. He said, “And you all know that I was the last person that defeated your Emperor of Bourdillon who said that I would not be Senate President but I said ”No. I would be Senate President’. “And you know that I would ensure and fight and God’s willing in 2023, PDP would take Lagos State. We will take Lagos State. We started that effort with the issue of reconciliation.” POLL Decrying the state of the nation, Saraki stated that Nigeria is inching toward a failed state and requires a President with the capacity to redirect the country on a path of growth and unity. He said, “Today in Nigeria we all see where this country is. We have never seen this level of disunity in the entire history of this country even during the difficult time of the Civil War. The level of insecurity today is frightening. Today as a country we are inching towards a failed state. “A failing state is defined when the authority of the state no longer has a monopoly upon violence. Today, there are parts of the state we just can’t go to. It was not like that eight years ago. Today, the level of banditry…we are the World Capital for kidnapping, we are the World Capital for Poverty, youth unemployment. “This is not the Nigeria we all dreamt of. So this time, we want a President that can do the job and we must ask ourselves what kind of President is that? I believe the President we have now is the President that can unite this country because, without unity, you cannot have progress. “To unite this country, you must be somebody that everybody will feel comfortable with and say yes that is the Nigerian for all Nigerians. I believe that I can be and I am best to be that bridge between the North and the South of Nigeria.”