ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Gov­ernor, Godwin Emefiele, has crossed the red line when he said that Nigerians could go ahead and “have heart attack” over the widespread anxiety in the country arising from his involvement in partisan poli­tics. The party, which con­demned as reckless, irrespon­sible and unpardonable, the comment, added that Eme­fiele could no longer be trusted with sensitive materials. The party, which also said that Emefiele could not contin­ue as CBN Governor, insisted that his actions were in viola­tion of the CBN Act 2007 and the Public Service Rules. -Advertisement- The PDP, in a statement by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Olo­gunagba, said that Emefiele’s comment was provocative and enough to trigger a nationwide restiveness, pitch Nigerians against the CBN, shut down the economy and destabilise the polity. The PDP asserted that de­spite Mr. Emefiele’s alleged withdrawal from the presiden­tial race due to the pressure by the party, he still could not continue as CBN Governor having become partisan as a card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “The CBN, which keeps ALL sensitive materials for elections cannot be trusted with the custody of such ma­terials with a biased Mr. Eme­fiele at the helm of affairs. “It was despicable to watch Mr. Emefiele on Thursday May 12, 2022 at the Presidency, brazenly and derisively spit at the concerns of millions of Nigerians, the International Community and the Corpo­rate World when he said of Nigerians, ‘let them have heart attack. It’s good to have heart attack. I am having a lot of fun.’ “Mr. Emefiele has crossed the red lines; he is provoking and daring Nigerians to do their worse especially in the face of huge allegations and revelations of massive looting, manipulations and doctoring of the books in the CBN under his watch as recently exposed in a leaked phone conversation and for which he ought to be behind bars. POLL “His unthinking and insen­sitive comment further estab­lishes that he is not a fit and proper person to hold public office and continue the coor­dination of our national com­monwealth as the CBN Gover­nor, having exposed his lack of the required professionalism, code of conduct and regard for public concerns on issues that affect our economy and the electoral process.”