Dreams are life goals that provide humans with a sense of purpose and direction. Despite being born into affluence and and wealth, for Nosa Okunbo, son of late businessman and billionaire, captain Hosa Okunbo, it is  about everyone chasing their dreams. In this generation, money changes the sense of morality of youths, how they think, live and relate with others. But Nosa Okunbo, who plays college basketball in the United States of America, is aligning himself with his passion and the things he cares about. At such a tender age, Nosa Okunbo plays the role model to a lot of underprivileged families, speaking for others whose voices cannot be heard by the virtue of their distance from the top of the social stratification. It earned Nosa Okunbo the Euroknowledge Youth Advocacy award this year, and he is the youngest recipient of the award. Nosa also bagged the international Burj CEO awards by the Dubai Royal Family for his outreaches through his Africa To The World (ATTW)  a non-profit organization he founded recently. The dream of every college basketballer in the US is to play in the NBA, where the best names in the slam and dunk game in the world ply their trade. “Everyone hopes to one day play in the NBA, but I’m just taking everything one day at a time and not focusing on that too much right now, but instead on how I can get better day by day,” Nosa Okunbo disclosed. As a young child growing up in the United Kingdom, Nosa Okunbo developed interest in football, until he moved to the US, where he encountered a twist of fate and fell in love basketball, having been blessed with the height, standing at 6ft 7inch as a young teenager. POLL “It was a big decision I had to make, to quit football after already being an established football player back home and to move across the world and start a completely new sport,” Nosa Okunbo said at a time. Many would have espected him to learn the rudiments of business and continue his father’s dynasty. However, Nosa Okunbo disclosed that his family is fully in support of his decision to purpose his dream to become a professional basketballer. “My family has been very supportive to some extent, but like every other Nigerian parent my academics always come first,” pointed out Okunbo.