LAGOS – BetKing, the sports and digital entertainment company in Nigeria said it has concluded its first edition of the ‘Month of Good’ campaign, which was geared towards driving environmental sustainability in Nigeria. The month-long campaign that launched on April 18, 2022 was anchored on the company’s commitment to positively impacting lives within communities they operate and beyond. Through partnerships with two prominent Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs); Market Doctors and the African Clean-Up Initiative (ACI), the campaign supported medical outreach across major cities such as Lagos, Ibadan, Abuja, Benin, Enugu, Port Harcourt and Anambra; and beach fronts and drainage clean-up activities within some of these cities. -Advertisement- Gossy Ukanwoke, Managing Director, KingMakers, while speaking about the campaign, said that the company was deeply passionate about doing good and impacting the lives of people around it. He said that the campaign helped to provide relief through medical support, health and wellness initiatives in the target communities through a 360 approach that involved collaboration from all its key stakeholders – employees, agents and customers. Ukanwoke expressed delight at the support KingMakers received with the last campaign, assuring that the company would revisit the project in the coming year. He said: “When we look around, we see opportunities to support communities with basic amenities that can help to change lives. We want to use this avenue to encourage like-minded organisations and individuals to also play a part by giving back or performing acts of goodwill to aid sustainable development in the country. “BetKing Cares, and as a responsible corporate, we will continue to sponsor and drive more initiatives that contribute to a good cause.” he added. POLL Commending BetKing for this initiative, Dr. Yetunde Ayo-Oyalowo, the Founder of Market Doctors described the campaign as a remarkable gesture towards aiding health and wellness in Nigeria.