ABUJA – The Spanish government on Tuesday donated 4,400,000 doses of Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine to Nigeria. The Spanish Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Juan Ignatio Sell, stated that this was the largest COVID-19 donation to any African country. He made this known during the handing over of the vaccines at the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) head office in Abuja. -Advertisement- According to Sell, the grant demonstrates his country’s dedication to assisting underdeveloped countries in increasing COVID-19 vaccination rates. According to him: “In 2020, the world was faced with the challenge to develop an effective vaccine. In 2021 the challenges evolved to the production and distribution of the vaccines. Today in 2022, we need to put these vaccines within people’s reach. “As we want to leave the acute phase of the pandemic behind, we dare not linger and there are lessons to be learnt. “One of them is the need to improve global mechanisms for technology transfer to decentralize the production of health products in all regions, Africa in particular. And that is why Spain has joined the WHO Technology Access Group. “And that is also why the EU has launched a Team Europe Initiative on manufacturing and access to vaccines, medicines and health technologies in Africa, with 1 billion euros, and that will benefit Nigeria. “And we need to protect, safeguard and invest in health and health workers, and this is the effort line that Spain is co-leading in the framework of the Global Action Plan, and we have committed 300 million euros for further donations and projects to strengthen public health systems,” he advised. Receiving the donation on behalf of the Nigerian Government, the Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, thanked the Spanish government for the donation, said the gesture came at a time the country most needed. He used the opportunity to call on eligible Nigerians who were yet to be vaccinated to do so. POLL According to him, if we keep up with the vaccination, the likely scenario is that even though the virus continues to evolve, the severity of the disease will reduce over time as the immunity increases due to vaccination. Meanwhile, EU Ambassador to Nigeria, WHO and UNICEF Country representatives all commended Nigeria in its efforts to vaccinate all eligible Nigerians.