The Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has criticized the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency’s (NDLEA) proposal for mandatory narcotic tests for all aspirants running for an elective position in the 2023 general elections. IPAC said that the request was an “outrageous, outlandish, preposterous, despicable and deliberate attack on the sensibilities of lovers of democratic governance in Nigeria.” The Council also frowned at it, insisting that the proposal “portrays politicians as drug addicts who must be certified fit to run for various elective offices by the agency. It is reprehensible and unacceptable.” While rejecting NDLEA’s demand, and seeking a “limit to rascality in the discharge of public duties,” the advisory body for political parties in the country asked for an apology from NDLEA, while “warning the anti-narcotic agency to desist from impugning on the character and integrity of politicians including those contesting for president who are patriotic, highly respected, well-accomplished statesmen and women with proven integrity. “ A statement signed by IPAC National Chairman, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani accused NDLEA Boss, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (rtd) of lacking “the audacity to make a similar proposal to the nation’s armed forces that have on several occasions “accidentally bombed” civilian settlements killing innocent citizens including children in the course of military operations to get rid of terrorists, insurgents, militants and bandits.” It asked the anti-narcotics agency “to show regard for the nation’s political leaders as obtainable in other democracies.” IPAC strongly condemns drug abuse by misguided citizens and urges NDLEA to discharge its duties in tandem with the law establishing it, adding that a nation is governed by the rule of law, not by impunity. “It is obvious that political parties’ activities are guided by the 1999 constitution as amended, the Electoral Act 2022, INEC guidelines/regulations and respective parties’ guidelines. POLL “There is no justification whatsoever for extra-constitutional requirements as proposed by the NDLEA boss. This is the position of the Supreme Court ahead of the contentious 2003 general election where it held that INEC had no power to impose nomination fees on aspirants vying for elective offices outside the requirements provided by the constitution. “This is the clear position of the law and the position of IPAC for aspirants seeking political offices in the 2023 general election. Political parties will not be distracted by this absurdity. IPAC will continue to uphold democratic ideals ethics and ethos as we jointly build a better, greater and prosperous democratic society,” it stressed.