JOY ANIBGOGU Female entrepreneurs in Nigeria are increasing in number, but they are challenged by limited access to funding to help them grow their businesses. Issues facing women in business can range from lack of finance, inaccessible to market and cultural impediments. According to record made available by Partnership for Advancing Women Empowerment In Development (PAWED), the 2020 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have highlighted the fact that the majority of businesses (46%) had an initial capital of less than N100,000 which is complicated by limited access to credit. -Advertisement- According to the record, for Nigeria Medium, Small and Medium Enterprises to be eligible to get a loan via Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDANs) many activities, the main requirements is usually to have a registered business and because many women own businesses are usually informal, this poses a great challenge to them accessing such loans and grants. It is also noted that most commercial financial providers require businesses to have proper documentation and be registered in addition to more stringent criteria and high interest cost. The collateral requirements by most financial providers play a significant role in excluding women from the formal credit market. Female entrepreneurs in Nigeria may have less access than their male counterparts due to limited personal financial assets. Many informal women entrepreneurs rely on internal sources of capital, such as personal savings and informal capital from friends and family members and this will in turn limit the scope of their business. Nkechi Tioluwani Abiola, the founding President of Ladies On Wheels Association of Nigeria (LOWAN), a community of female drivers who work together to make money and support their families. POLL Abiola said: “Our members start by getting cars through rentals and hire purchase. There are people who have cars and don’t want to drive but can rent them out to drivers in return for a fee weekly. In the case of hire purchase, every month you pay a certain amount of money and when you finish making the payments, the car becomes yours. “The challenge that we have is that we don’t have enough of these cars. So many women are out there who are willing to drive but the cars are not available, and they don’t have the money to buy cars. We don’t have the opportunity of getting cars the way we really want, and so many of these women are without jobs even though they are ready to work. While speaking on the challenges of accessing loans from the bank, the founder of the association said that it was a very herculean task when they approached the bank as an association. “We tried, but we were not successful. The requirements from the banks were not something that we could meet. “Many of these women could not meet the requirements because they were very demanding. They had loads of requirements ranging from collateral to all other forms of documentation and the women were not able to meet the requirements. “I must tell you that this is the major challenge that we have in this business and we don’t know how we can surmount this challenge. We are educated women but the major challenge is access to fund to run the business and other cultural impediments. “We are contributing to the economy and we expect the government to help us. We are providing employment to women who before this time had nothing and through our association they have been gainfully employed. ‘We are not asking the government to give us the cars free of charge but to give us loans and spread the time for payment for us. They can do that through any of their Ministries, Agencies or Departments (MDAs). If they give us grants we will appreciate it but where they cannot give us grants let them give us loans. “Another huge challenge that women have is in the area of cultural barriers. It is believed that in some cultures some businesses or jobs are an exclusive reserve for men and no matter how women try they will always meet obstacles. Abiola while relating the experiences of her members said that some of them have lost money because of issues relating to gender parity. “You know how it is when women are trying to get into male dominated business there is always one form of setback or the other. “The challenge from our riders is the one that is most disturbing to us. When they call and discover that you are a woman, terminate the transaction. They are not always comfortable with a female driver. What you will hear is “I can’t have a woman drive me” They will immediately cancel the ride. Apart from the challenge from the riders, we also have the challenge of our husbands not coming to terms with the fact that his wife is an Uber driver, they just believe that the job is for men. ‘We record a lot of cancellation from our male customers in particular. How are we going to make it if the customers that we are supposed to service are rejecting us on account of our gender? We really need society to get sensitized and begin to accept us. “We are service providers like our male counterparts. We try to break the barriers when we go to our social media to sensitize men. We appeal to them to encourage us. “We are ladies trying to make ends meet. We go out there do our best, add to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and create jobs for ourselves so we need every encouragement that we can get from the men. I must commend our female riders because the majority of our female riders have actually encouraged us. ‘I must also tell you that some of our riders have also become drivers. It is so because when they see the way we operate they are encouraged to join the business. It will interest you to know that 80 percent of LOWAN members are graduates. ‘We were doing one thing or the other before we saw the opportunity and we jumped at it. This job affords us the opportunity to control our time, take care of our children and our homes. ‘We have people who left their banking jobs to join us. We have lawyers, surveyors, teachers, estate agents and fashion designers like me, as members. Some do the business part time while others do it full time”. Omolola Adeleke, the social Director of LOWAN and a mother of three enumerated the contribution of the association. “I joined LOWAN in August 2019, and prior to joining the association I made a lot of mistakes, lost some money because I was doing it alone but when I joined LOWAN I was exposed to so many things. “I got to know about some APPs that could boost my business; I get to start having safety tips, locations that I should avoid at certain times. In fact, information dissemination is very important. These are the benefits I got from joining the association three years ago. Sometimes when you leave your house later than others they will share information of traffic with you and it helps you to manage your business efficiently. Another benefit that I receive as a member is that when you have issues with government agencies or you have security issues the association will intervene. You will also have more contacts or market as a member and not be limited to your network. The association also offers us the opportunity to expand our scope of business. “I have benefitted more operating uber business and have more job offers. As a single mother I have been able to take care of my children. I started the business by renting a car in 2019, and I then went into hire purchase which I finished the payment last year and by the grace of God I have my own car, Sylva Ikeji, is the head of Public Relations of LOWAN, she enumerated the impact of the business. “I love driving and I went into it first for fun and when I started seeing money I got stocked. The company of other women really helped me. We also help other women to be financially independent. With your own car you can save even if it is a couple of hundred thousand in a month. With the kind of economy that we have it is good for everyone to have multiple streams of income. Some of the challenges that we have are security concerns, bad roads and sometimes the drivers are at higher risks than the riders. We have heard stories of drivers getting killed, unfortunately they were mostly men but I have never heard a story of a rider getting killed by a legitimate rider. “How are we going to make it if the customers that we are supposed to service are rejecting us on account of our gender? We really need society to get sensitised and begin to accept us. We are service providers like our male counterparts”