A gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, Terlumun Ikya has pledged to review the Benue tax laws to impact the economic climate of Benue and place it on the path of sustainable growth. The aspirant who made the declaration while launching his blueprint for the state in Makurdi on Monday noted that, if given the opportunity to serve as Governor, he would turn around the fortunes of the state within the first four years of his administration. Ikya explained that his blueprint, titled “The Benue Recovery Plan” has been designed to ensure that from the onset, his administration would begin by reviewing and assessing current realities on the ground, so as to “Rescue, Recover and Rebuild” the state during his first four-year tenure. -Advertisement- According to him, “Our road map for Rescue, Recovery and Rebuilding is designed to cover a four-year tenure. We believe this time is sufficient to create visible and measurable strides in our identified sectors for development. “The plan has been designed for implementation within an initial four-year period, but will also target short, medium and long term development goals aimed at bringing the state out of its current economical challenges and placing it on a path of sustainable growth. “An effective evaluation monitoring framework will be developed at the inception of the administration to guarantee effective implementation of the Plan. “I am mindful of the need to improve the fiscal discipline and credibility of the state’s budgeting system, and as such we will adjust our spending patterns and review our tax laws to accommodate the current socio-economic realities and ensure that we impact positively on the overall economic climate of the state. “We will implement a strategic paradigm shift in fiscal policy planning, with emphasis on investment in transport infrastructure, public utilities, schools, hospitals, ICT development, job creation and security amongst others. POLL “Our administration, if elected, will introduce a Single Treasury Account (TSA) with a designated financial institution as our prefers tool for effective management of public finances.” He further noted that “From day one, our transition team will be reviewing and assessing current realities on ground, using existing data from relevant government agencies, development partners, an active private sector within Benue state and information gathered from engaging community leaders – traditional, religious, youth and women. “We shall embark on more meaningful transformation with the dispensation of Economic Diversification beyond our tenure in the following phases: Phase 1- first year, Rescue and Assessment; phase 2 – second year, Recovery and Repositioning and phase 3 – the last two years, Rebuilding. “Our rescue mission is a purposeful and dynamic drive that will require changing our orientation, approach and structures to generate different results. The designed template enforces different processes and disciplines to restructure existing traditional methods. ‘The plan shall be driven by reforms to improve the financial status of the state, thus improving the overall economic stability of all industries and eventually, increasing the earning potential of the state’s labour force. “This template shall also incorporate an ICT component to using a phased method, migrate current systems from analogue to digital platforms for seamless integrations to global economic systems as required”, he further stated.