Ahead of the election primaries of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has as­sured party members in the state APC under his leadership would be fair to all irrespective of mis­demeanor of any party member in the past. Abiodun gave this assurance when he received the immediate past Commissioner for Local Gov­ernment and Chieftaincy Affairs, Jide Ojuko and his supporters who joined the mainstream of the party led by the governor, at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta. The governor posited that since the returnees retraced their steps, they would be reintegrated into the party. -Advertisement- He said: “I know that you fought for a cause and if we are fighting for a purposeful leader­ship then we understand. But there is no need for the fight to continue since the election had been concluded and a governor emerged. I am not going to be the governor of APC alone, but the governor to those who did not vote for me. “Your coming to join us was not by compulsion, it is out of your conviction. This action of yours is a vote of confidence of what we are doing. It is a vote of endorsement. This is a day of cel­ebration for all of us in the APC. We may have our differences, but the important thing is for us to put those differences aside and work for the good of the party and the state. “Let me assure you that as your leader and on behalf of the party, since you strayed and de­cided to come, you are welcome. I commend your sense of loyalty and determination to come back home. We welcome you with open arms. Please, integrate yourself and contribute to the success of the party.” The governor, who used the oc­casion to reiterate efforts made by his administration to give Ota and its environs a face-lift, said two boundary roads were completed, while the most expensive road in the state, the Atan-Agbara, was on asphalting stage while plans have been put in place to extend the La­gos rail line from Okokomaiko to Agbara, to ease transportation in the area. On the deplorable condition of the Lagos-Ota-Abeokuta road, the governor explained that the sum of N16b was needed to complete it, adding that work would soon commence on the road as the state has secured commitments from a private partner to fund the balance. POLL “We are collaborating with the Lagos State Government to extend the rail line going to Oko­komaiko, we are extending it all the way to Agbara and Lusada. So, our people will have options – either they want to go by the road, which is a dual carriage express­way or they can go by train. The train will also be able to carry con­tainers, goods and services and agro produce between Ogun State and the port of Lagos State. “I want to plead with you that there are other roads that require attention, we may not be able to do all the roads in a three-year peri­od, even in a four-year period, but, I believe that we’ve established trust and confidence in you and we will ensure that all roads that are critical to the socio-economic development of Ogun West, par­ticularly in Ado-Odo-Ota, will receive our priority attention,” Abiodun submitted.