Lagos – The Lagos state government is proposing to host the 2023 ITTF World Championships. The state’s Deputy Governor, Femi Hamzat, made this request on Tuesday when the former Commissioner for Sports in the state and ITTF Executive President, Wahid Enitan Oshodi, led an ITTF team to pay him a courtesy visit. Hamzat, while making the request, assured the ITTF of the state’s readiness to host the World Championships following the successful hosting of several ITTF-sanctioned tournaments in the last eight years. -Advertisement- He promised that the state would continue to support table tennis while assuring that they would be willing to host the world based on the experience of hosting several tournaments in the past. “I am excited to receive the ITTF team. We are happy that our efforts have started yielding positive results with Quadri Aruna now ranked among the top 10 players in the world. We will continue to support table tennis and we are ready to show what more we can do by hosting world championships as we are ready to do it and we believe ITTF will consider maybe for next year,” Hamzat said. Oshodi in his response said that the visit became necessary following the huge support ITTF got from the state in the last eight years. “We are here on a Thank-You visit because Lagos has been a major supporter of table tennis in Africa, and we are happy that the support has started yielding fruit now that Aruna is now ranked among the top 10 players in the world. We hope that more players will come through like Aruna. POLL Lagos has been the backbone of table tennis in Africa, and we hope that this support will be sustained by the state,” Oshodi said For the President of ITTF Africa, Khaled El-Salhy, Lagos has continued to raise the bar when it comes to hosting major table tennis tournaments while ITTF and ATTF would continue to look up to the state for more support. “We are grateful to the government and good people of Lagos for their hospitality and support in the past few years and we at ITTF has recognised the important role that Lagos plays in Africa, and we hope we can continue to partner with the state to host more tournaments because of the experience in terms of putting a top-class organization,” El-Salhy. The Lagos team had the state Commissioners for Youth and Social Development, Segun Dawodu and his Information and Strategy counterpart, Gbenga Omotoso. The ITTF has Vice President of ITTF Africa, Prof Germain Karou; Deputy Chairman, ITTF Tribunal, Morenike Obi-Farinde; Chairman, Youth Committee, ITTF Africa, Kweku Tandoh and President of the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF), Engr Ishaku Tikon.