The Christian Conscience Group has warned Nigerians, especially the political class against reckless lifestyle, even as it urged everyone to imbibe godly principles. The group, in its Easter message contained in a recent statement issued by its National Chairman, Dr. Mrs. Yetunde Akinluyi, and the National General Secretary, Rev. Dr. Kolawole Verrals, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT. While the group assured Nigerians of a bright future, it urged the ruling class to abhor a lifestyle detrimental to the peace and unity of the country. It exhorted Nigerians to allow “the will of God to prevail in their daily activities as there is still hope for a better country of our dream.” The group hinged its conviction on the promises of God and the outcome of some spiritual exercise it embarked on recently. “We believe judging by what the Lord is telling us there is still hope on the horizon. But our political leaders must make God the cornerstone of their activities. They must be submissive to His Will. They must do things with the fear of God. They must be considerate to fellow human beings in all things.” The group stated: “We must have hope where there seems to be none because the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ have given us hope against all odds”. While rejoicing with all Christian faithful and Nigerians in general for this year’s Easter Celebration, the group further admonished Nigerians “not to give up hope despite the various challenges facing the nation but trust in the Almighty God who is sufficient and efficient in all matters of life.” POLL The group also called for prayers for the political leaders, stressing, “The power of the devil cannot be compared with the power of God as He is capable of defeating darkness at all times. If we, as a Nation genuinely seek His face without pretense, He will come to our help.” The group also urged eligible voters to take advantage of the ongoing continuous voters’ registration update. “People should go and register to vote and keep abreast with development on the political front.” the statement read.