LAGOS  – As part of its commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of ensuring Health for All in Africa by 2030, the Lions Club of Ikeja has donated medical equipment worth N1.5 million to Oregun Primary Health Centre (PHC), Oregun, Lagos. The District Governor of Ikeja Lions Club District 404B2, Lion Kayode Osinuga, who had led his cabinet to the commissioning commended the president of Lions Club, Ikeja, Lion Abiodun Fashina, for the sacrifice, describing it as a worthwhile investment. He praised them for their philanthropic gesture, year in, year out, quarter by quarter and urged them to continue, adding, “I will be coming to commission another project before the year runs out.” -Advertisement- Lion Osinuga disclosed that he had commissioned four projects early in the day that included a Primary Health Centre, at Kola, Alagbado area of the state. “Onbehalf of theIkejaLions Club and all Lions in District 404B2, I hand over this legacy project to the management of Oregun Primary Health Centre in order to offer quality medical services to the community and promotion of honour.” In his welcome address, the President of Ikeja Lions Club, Lion Abiodun Fashina, thanked the District Governor whom he described as a father for honouring the club with his presence. He noted that the project, which was conceived within two weeks and four days, could not have got off the ground without the sacrifice of the members, particularly the chairperson of the organising committee, Lion (Dr.) Kelechi Onyedi, Lion Ayo Amusan, Lion Ademola Adebowale, among others. Receiving the donations which included a canopy, filing cabinet, height and weight meter, thermometer, chairs among others, the officer-in-charge of the centre, Mrs. Folashade Giwa, thanked the Ikeja Lions Club for the donations of essential needs of the centre. POLL In her words: “I commend you for meeting us at the point of our needs. I specifically thanked Lion Kelechi Onyedi who periodically visits us to assess our needs.” Giwa prayed for the Ikeja Lions President and his team, asking God to bless, protect and preserve their lives. “None of your family will lack any good things, the Lord will supply your needs,” she prayed. Other eminent, Ikeja Lions members that attended the event included Lion (Barr.) Gbadebo Ajeigbe, Lion (Dcn) Kola Anulopo, Lion (Dr.) Kelechi Onyedi, Lion Ayo Amusan, Lion Ademola Adebowale, Lion Ebare Mark, Lion Kayode Fashina, Lion Kayode Majekodunmi and Lion Amiola Adebiyi.