LAGOS  – The Nigerian bourse (NGX) has proved some analysts wrong in it’s performance so far in 2022 as it sit atop the ladder as Africa’s leading exchange. The exchange has increased its lead over its closest rivals on the continent, the Johannesburg (Joburg) and Nairobi (NSE 20) Stock Exchanges, since the last time we touched on the subject. The NGX is now up roughly 23 per cent year-to-date (ytd), a performance that contrasts sharply with the -6 per cent and -8 per cent delivered by Joburg and Nairobi respectively. -Advertisement- The majority of the gains were made between April to date, as the NGX ASI has rallied by over +13 per cent, compared with the -6 per cent to -7 per cent sell-off by its two counterparts over the same period. Analysts at FBNQuest said: “This strong performance was not anticipated by the market at the start of the year. Our call was for modest gain of around 10 per cent. “The principal driver has been improved investor sentiment on the back of stronger-than-expected Q1 ’22 earnings results by several listed non-financial companies – including those in the industrials, FMCG, telecommunications and oil and gas sectors”. They added that some bellwether equities, such as Dangote Cement, MTN Nigeria, and Airtel Africa reported strong earnings increases of up to 30 per cent to 45 per cent year-on-year (y/y). “Cement producers benefited from solid sales growth due to price increases. For GSM network operators, performance was largely underpinned by robust y/y growth in data revenue, together with double-digit y/y revenue growth across other key revenue lines”. POLL The shares of oil and gas companies, and other commodity producers, such as Seplat, Presco and Okomu, have rallied strongly on the back of soaring prices of energy and commodity prices primarily due to the Russian-Ukraine war. The market’s turnover has also improved, averaging $11 million ytd, compared with $8 million in the corresponding period of 2021. However, domestic investors continue to dominate market activity. Offshore investors have largely stayed away due to the country’s foreign exchange liquidity concerns. The analysts also added that “the performance of Joburg and Nairobi reflect the negative return delivered by many stock markets globally, due to risk-off investor sentiment on concerns around weaker growth, rising inflation, and hawkish monetary policies by most central banks globally. “Even though most stocks have rallied strongly ytd, another positive earnings surprise in Q2 could serve as a trigger for the index”. Temi Popoola, the Chief Executive Officer, NGX, believes that some factors responsible for the performance being recorded in the exchange were actions taken in 2021. He said: “In line with The Exchange’s drive to develop and improve the digital experience for our stakeholders, NGX launched the maiden edition of the Digital only version of the 2021 NGX annual Factbook (X-Factbook), and released an enhanced version of its X-Mobile App. “In the equities space, NGX listed Bricklinks Africa, NGX Group and Ronchess Global Resources Plc by introduction on The Exchange; while the fixed income market saw corporate bond issuances by BUA Cement Plc (N115billion); CardinalStone (N5billion); Nova Merchant Bank (N10billion); Coronation Merchant Bank (N25billion) “. He added that the NGX also grew the total value of securities borrowed/lent in 2021 to N513.10 million up from N95.18million in 2020 and N340,000 in 2019. Market Making: Received approval on amendments to the NGX Market Making Rules and relaunched the NGX Market Making Program across the various listed asset classes. In upholding its key pillars of sustainability, NGX recorded the following achievements.