Engr. Suleiman Adamu, Minister of Water Resources, has tasked the members of the Nigeria National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage (NINCID) to ensure a paradigm shift from the traditional and unregulated irrigation practices in Nigeria to more sustainable land and water use management approach. Adamu gave the task via zoom at the meeting of the National Irrigation Forum on Institutional Strengthening and Management of Public Irrigation Schemes in Nigeria and the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Nigeria National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage (NINCID) in Ibadan, Oyo State. A statement on Tuesday issued by Mrs Funmi Imuetinyan, Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations Unit in the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, quoted Adamu as saying that Nigeria is endowed with water resources, but the sustainability of these endowments is threatened by land degradation, deforestation, rapid population growth and other social-economic development including the effect of climate change. -Advertisement- The Minister further noted that this myriad of challenges can be arrested through stimulation and promotion of development and application of arts, science and techniques of engineering, agriculture, economics, ecology and social science in managing water and land resources for irrigation, drainage, flood control and river training alongside related research. Speaking on the expectations from the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Nigeria National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage (NINCID) the minister revealed that the AGM  is geared towards bringing together various stakeholders and experts within the sector to deliberate, share ideas, knowledge and experiences on how to advance irrigation and drainage practices in Nigeria. He added that it is expected that members would come up with resolutions that would further consolidate irrigation practice for the attainment of sustainable irrigation and water management in Nigeria. In her opening remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, who also spoke via Zoom, noted that NINCID as a knowledge-based sharing platform is dedicated to improving the status of irrigated agriculture and management, including rain-fed agriculture driven by experts’ contributions for the development and acceleration of irrigation and drainage practices in Nigeria. She added that as part of its development effort, NINCID has established a forum called Young Professional Forum with members drawn from the sector such as the Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR),  River Basin Development Authorities (RBDAs), and the National Water Resources Institute (NWRI), among others. POLL She expressed optimism that the Committee would discuss ways and means of strengthening the Young Professionals Forum and suggest options for its sustainability and also come up with resolutions that would reposition NINCID to operate optimally. Earlier in her welcome address, the Chairperson of NINCID and the Director of Irrigation and Drainage, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs Oyeronke Oluniyi, recalled that NINCID is a subsidiary of the International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage ( ICID), a leading Techno- Scientific non-governmental and non-profit making International Organization dedicated to the improvement of Water and Land management to enhance the worldwide supply of food and fibre for humankind. She urged members to participate maximally and develop sustainable ways of ensuring that NINCID activities grow in more beneficial ways. Present at the meeting were Directors of Irrigation, Country Representatives, retired Irrigation Directors, members of the academia and water stakeholders.