The PEARL Awards Nigeria has officially announced that the 25th edition of the widely acknowledged prestigious Awards in the Nigerian Capital Market will take place in November 2022. Mr Tayo Orekoya, President, PEARL Awards, made this known on Thursday, May 5 in Lagos.According to him, this kick-starts the official process and activities that culminate in the hosting of the Awards on the last Sunday of November each year. The President said the 2022 PEARL Awards with the theme: Sustaining Excellence Through Tenacity (SETT), reflects the current realities of the Corporates and Capital Markets, locally and globally. -Advertisement- Inaugurating the Central Working Committee (CWC), Orekoya explained that the awards were stepped down in 2020 and 2021 due to the devastating impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on businesses and events around the globe including Nigeria. He, therefore, reiterated that the PEARL Awards was therefore faced with the herculean task of bringing back the Awards fully to the corporate space of Nigeria after two years of inactivity. “The yearnings of our stakeholders for the Pearl Awards to return cannot be over-emphasized and therefore we must do everything possible to ensure that this year’s Awards surpasses their expectations. “Over the years we have built and sustained a legacy through the PEARL Awards and this is attested to by the high reputation and credibility which corporate Nigeria and other stakeholders ascribe to the Awards Project for its impartiality and reliance on verifiable indices to determine the yearly winners,” he said. Orekoya challenged the CWC to ensure that through their ingenious ideas, innovation and commitment, they meet and surpass the standards set for a world-class event of this nature. POLL He charged the first female Chairman of the CWC, Mrs Ifeoma Adibe-Chukwuka and her 15-man committee of top-flight professionals to proffer ideas, initiatives and innovations that would make the 2022 edition to be fundamentally different and outstanding beyond the level of the Awards over the past two and half decades. He noted that PEARL Awards was the only award in Nigeria that rewards the outstanding performance of quoted companies in the Nigerian Capital Market based on veritable facts and figures. “Pearl Awards are based on impartiality, fairness, transparency and unbiasedness that continues to endear major stakeholders in the capital market, to the annual Awards. “It is gratifying to note that in spite of the tight and challenging business environment, some quoted companies have continued to deliver superior performance, a quantum leap in bottom lines and good returns to shareholders. “We promise to remain committed to uphold and be sustainably guided by our avowed principle of fairness, transparency and objectivity,” he said.