Lagos – President of the Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF), Hon. Daniel Igali, has praised Team Nigeria wrestlers for their excellent performance at the just concluded 2022 African Wrestling Championships in El Jadida, Morocco. All the 11 wrestlers that represented the country at the Championships each won a medal. In the Women event, Team Nigeria won four gold, two silver and two bronze medals while in the Freestyle wrestling, Team Nigeria won a silver and two bronze medals. “I am very proud of the wrestlers. They really lived up to expectations and we all need to praise their performance at this championships,” said Igali. Wrestling in the 57kg FS, Commonwealth silver-medallist Ebikewenimo Welson won silver, while African champions Ogbonna John (74kg) and Ekerekeme Agiomor (86kg) both settled for bronze medals. -Advertisement- After securing quarter and semifinal wins against Congo DR’s Rabby Kilandi (12-1 via fall) and Diamantino Iuna Fafe of Guinea-Bissau (2-1), Welson lost 5-0 to Gamal Mohamed of Egypt in the final. On his part, John, who had won four straight African titles hitherto failed to make it five in a row, after he was stopped in the semi-finals by Egyptian Amr Hussen via a fall victory. He however won bronze by overcoming Brian Oloo of Kenya 10-0 via superiority in the 74kg class. Similarly, Tokyo 2020 Olympian Agiomor (86kg) also claimed bronze after beating Tunisian Sabri Mnasria 9-0. After receiving a bye in the qualification round, the 2018 African champion defeated Guma Bashir of Sudan 10-0 via pinfall in the quarterfinals before narrowly going down 3-2 to Egyptian Mahmoud Badawi in the last four. Gold medalists are: Mercy Adekuoroye (53kg); Jumoke Adekoye (55kg); Odunayo Adekuoroye (59kg); and Blessing Oborududu (68kg). POLL Patience Opuene (62kg) and Hannah Reuben (76kg) both won silver, while Sunmisola Balogun (65kg) and Ebi Biogos (72kg) settled for bronze medals. In Freestyle, Ebikwenimo Welson (57kg) picked a silver medal while the duo of Ogbonna John (74kg) and Ekerekeme Agiomor (86kg) picked bronze medals.