Religious leaders in Ekiti State have renewed their commitment to leading advocacy for a peaceful and violent-free election ahead of the June 18, 2022 governorship poll. The clerics spoke in Ado-Ekiti, the State capital, as they endorsed the election peacebuilding programme tagged, ‘Vote Not Fight: Election No be War Inter-Faith Forum on Non-violent Elections’. The event, organized by a non-governmental organisation (NGO), the New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD), with the support of the National Democratic Institute (NDI). -Advertisement- In her address of welcome, the Executive Director of NIGAWD, Abimbola Aladejare-Salako, who was represented by the senior programme manager, Kackah Alex, said the event was necessary to promote peaceful and participatory June 18 poll, revealing,“the platforms of religious leaders is great and huge.” Amongst the discussants were the President -General League of Imams & Alfas, South-West, Edo, Delta States, Sheikh Jamiu Kewulere, Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Ekiti, Reverend Peter Olowolafe and the State Pastor of Living Faith Church also known as Winners Chapel, Solomon Olaife. Specifically, they promised to use their platforms to preach peace and campaign against violence and vote-buying during the poll They admonished the electorate to secure their future by rejecting financial inducement from political parties and gladiators. They jointly appealed to the Independent National Electoral Commission and the security agencies to ensure a credible, free and fair elections where the electorate will exercise their franchise without being harassed or intimidated and as well have their choice respected and upheld. POLL In his submission, Sheikh Kewulere advised youths to avoid being used by politicians to disrupt and cause violence during the June 18 poll, saying that sons and daughters of the gladiators are safe in faraway countries. Represented by Alhaji Isiak Mubarak, the Islamic leader warned candidates and the political parties not to turn the state into a battlefield and reincarnate the 1983 political scenario in the state, urging them not to force their individual ambitions on the citizens of the state. Also, Revd Olowolafe, who was represented by Revd Kolade Kayo-Ajayi, noted that as head of the Christian faithful in the state, they would deploy their pulpits to educate the people on the need to eschew violence before, during and after the election. The CAN leader, who explained that the role of the church ahead of the election cannot be over-emphasized called on members to be ready to participate during the election to elect the next governor of the state and avoid allowing politicians to buy their conscience. Olaife, on his part, canvassed for a peaceful election, saying, “We will go back to our churches to educate our people on the need to come out to vote on June 18 and not sell their votes for peanuts that can’t impact their lives.” Earlier Program Director of NDI, Bem Aga, who commended NIGAWD for bringing together respected clerics to deliberate ahead of the election, saying the religious leaders have a critical role to play in ensuring credible, peaceful and participatory June 18 poll and the 2023 elections. He said the NDI would continue to support and work in a bid to strengthen democratic institutions worldwide through citizen participation, openness and accountability in government, adding that the support to CSOs to implement the ‘Vote Not Fight’ campaign was made possible by USAID and Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).