Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and a presidential hopeful on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has said that he has the capacity to rebuild Nigeria having delivered as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and still delivering good governance as a governor, therefore he has what it takes to lead the country in 2023. Tambuwal who was in Lagos on Wednesday to seek the votes of Lagos PDP delegates ahead of the party’s convention, urged them to be guided by their conscience as they cast their votes, stressing that the task ahead of rebuilding Nigeria is huge He said, “Some of us are going to midwife the process of rebuilding Nigeria and to do that you must go for content, competence and experience -Advertisement- “We are in the recruitment system of who will be the standard flag bearer of our party, and must bring ourselves to the level of our consciousness of not being in trance but must have clear vision and understanding of the kind of leader that Nigeria requires. “Nigeria must work again for all of us; it can only happen if we have a partnership. I appeal to your conscience. Don’t mortgage the future of your children. He added, “I have delivered as speaker of the House of Representatives, I am delivering good governance in Sokoto State. We do not owe any worker salary, we do not owe pensioners. I am a pan Nigerian. We shouldn’t be talking about sentiments, when President Obasanjo discovered the problem of the Niger Delta and set up the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), he was not from Niger Delta. “When President Musa Yar Adua identified the problem in Niger Delta, he wasn’t a Niger Delta.  It is not about where you are from; it is about competence, your past and whether the people can trust you. “We must address the issues of the moment, insecurity and disunity. These issues call for all of us, men and women who believe in this country to come together and rescue our country from the cliff. Until we do that, Nigeria will go underground, God forbid. “We have never been in this situation before where our unity has been so threatened, where our stability has been so threatened, where governance in this country has been so bastardised and corruption has been taken to the next level.“The situation where those in power are helping themselves with public funds, we have never been in this situation where one cannot move around in any part of this country and be safe. We will do everything possible to rescue Nigeria. The governor added, “This is the beginning of that process when we take turns as presidential aspirants on the platform of our party to address you, lobby you, engage you on issues and provide you with the opportunity of accessing us for the job. POLL “The job requires experience because we cannot afford to take a risk by experimenting with this country again. President Muhammadu Buhari was the Minister of Petroleum, and was ahead of state but he was not democratically elected and therefore never in tune with the democratic governance system, that is why he is stretched with the governance system and Nigerians are finding it very discomforting,” Tambuwal noted Chieftains of PDP who accompanied Tambuwal to Lagos include, Muktar Shagari, former Minister of Water Resources, and Prof. Femi Kila, among other dignitaries.