LAGOS – The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), said it has saved the country about $3 million capital flight in 18 months, amounting to N.785 billion in today’s exchange rate of N595 to a dollar. The regulatory agency also said that it had carried out about 400 aviation courses on its technical personnel locally within the same period. Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of NCAA made the disclosure in an interview on the sideline of the ongoing Africa India Ocean (AFI) Aviation Week in Abuja. -Advertisement- According to Nuhu, since he came onboard in 2020, the management had made training and retraining of personnel a top priority, which had been beneficial to the agency and the industry at large. He explained that since November 2020, NCAA had domesticated some of the key mandatory courses of its inspectors, stressing that it had ran over 400 courses within the period. He emphasised that apart from saving the country capital flight, the domestication of the courses had also increased the number of personnel for training, stressing that the result of 18 months would have cost NCAA 10 years to achieve. He said: “Since November 2020, we have domesticated some of the key mandatory courses of our inspectors. We have run over 400 courses in the last 18 months. In the past, because foreign exchange is involved, you could not have sent more than 30 t0 50 people in a year. What we have done in 18 months, would have taken us eight to 10 years to do and tremendous saving in foreign exchange. “When I say this, we have saved millions of dollars and what we have done is to send them to different cities in Nigeria like Ogun States, and other places. The money we would have taken out has remained in Nigeria and improved our economy. What we have done is our own contribution to the curbing of scarcity of foreign exchange. POLL “In all, we have saved over $3 million in the last 18 months through domestication of training. If we had done that outside Nigeria, it would have taken us over 10 years to get that done. So, you can imagine the 10 years capacity development, we squeeze it in 18 months and it has impact and effect on the industry. “Do we have a long way to go? Certainly there are a lot more to be done. We have started the process and it can only get better. Those are parts of the programmes we are implementing to make NCAA much more efficient.”