The Nigeria Lagos Congress (NLC), has in a letter titled, “Re: Complaint by Rivers State workers against the inhumane disposition of the Rivers State government to the plight of public workers and pensioners” drew the attention of Nyesom Wike, Governor of Rivers State to the collective plight of workers in the State. Recalling earlier letters dated 6th February 2020, 24th March 2020 and 10th August 2020 on the subject matter, the letter signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, urged the governor to intervene and resolve a sleuth of concerns and complaints by public workers and pensioners in the state, which necessitated the national intervention by the NLC and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) on Tuesday, September 2, 2020. It explained that owing to the governor’s last-minute decision to interface with the leadership of organised labour in Nigeria and resolve all the outstanding issues bothering on workers’ and pensioners’ welfare that the planned mass action and industrial shutdown of Rivers State was averted. -Advertisement- “It is regrettable that nearly two years after reaching a Collective Bargaining Agreement with Rivers State workers and pensioners, the State Government has reneged on agreements reached”, it stated: . The agreements cut across non-promotion of civil servants eligible for promotion since 2012, non-payment of salaries arrears to civil servants not paid February and March 2016 salaries due to the aborted 2016 biometric verification as well as non-harmonisation of Pension for state retirees. Other agreements reached at the time include non-payment of pension arrears, gratuities and death benefits to retirees in Rivers thus exposing them to unimaginable pains and trauma and Non-implementation of pension incremental rates and non-implementation of annual salary increment for state workers. The NLC in its statement also reminded the governor that a tripartite committee was set up to resolve the issues and present its report to the state government for implementation in pursuant to Article 6 of the Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) signed between Organised Labour and the Rivers State Government on Monday, 7th September 2020. The Labour Center express its disappointment as it told the governor that he has failed to act on the Report of the Tripartite Committee contrary to the agreement reached with the government which by national laws and international labour conventions has a binding force of law. POLL The NLC also expressed its disappointment over the government’s continued failure to pay the terminal benefits of retirees for the past seven years, despite the economic viability of state which is at par with Lagos State as Nigeria’s most financially solvent states. NLC also upbraided the governor over the gale of donations to different causes embarked on by the government, and noted that the donations has not escaped the attention of hungry workers and pensioners in the state who watch as their state literarily adorns the robe of Father Christmas to other states while their salaries and pension are withheld. It added that “Many in Rivers State now believe that the maxim ‘Charity begins at home’ means nothing in Rivers State. We learnt that workers in the State now go about in black mourning robes and the children of retirees now protest naked in the public. Those are all ominous signs”.