LAGOS  – The African Association of Professional Freight Forwarders and Logistics of Nigeria (APFFLON), of the maritime sub-sector of the economy has declared the country’s logistics supply chain management system as “sick” and in urgent need of efficacious remedial measures. The group, even as the 2023 poll is fast approaching has challenged the electorate to judge the capacity of each of the aspirants or candidates mainly by their respective proffered workable solutions to the country’s lingering logistics supply chain management problems. APFFLON lamented that issues concerning the decayed maritime sector, however, have not been forthcoming from any of the political gladiators, even as it noted that the acts of omission or commission of the three tiers of government impact the logistics milieu profoundly. -Advertisement- Mr. Godfrey Emeka Nwosu, the Chairman of the Association, Speaking on the sideline of APFFLON meeting at the Tin-Can Island Port Chapter Secretariat in Lagos, expressed disgust that, thus far, none of the aspirants or candidates for the various seats, including States Houses of Assembly membership, Governorship, National Assembly membership, and the position of President, had publicly enunciated manifestos on enthroning cost-effective, efficient, and sustainable logistics supply chain management. The leading freight forwarder posited that, once Nigeria is able to get it right on the logistics supply chain management front, all other sectors will fall in place for the actualisation of her boundless potential as a great nation. According to him, for too long, a lack of the requisite appropriate logistics supply chain management system in Nigeria has retarded and stunted the nation’s development and progress. Nwosu posited that Nigeria is in self-denial of the much expected huge investment opportunities the African Continental Free trade Area (AfCFTA offers the continent by removal of trade barriers by not yet being fully positioned to participate effectively as a major maritime nation in the continent. He noted that Nigeria’s bad logistics supply chain management system drags and keeps her back from keying into the AfCFTA, which the promoters tout as aimed at accelerating intra-African trade and boosting Africa’s trading position in the global market by strengthening Africa’s common voice and policy space in global trade negotiations. POLL “Nigeria has suffered needlessly and endlessly from revenue leakages and persisting inflation, among other ills, because she is yet to get her logistics supply chain management right,” Nwosu said. He went on: “The bane of efficient logistics supply chain management in Nigeria is inexorably linked to the sharp practices by unscrupulous officials of government at the local, state, and Federal tiers, respectively. It is an unfortunate state of affairs that keeps breeding endemic corruption and inefficiency in the system.