YENAGOA – A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bukola Saraki, says he possesses the boldness to pull Nigeria away from a near state of total collapse, if elected president in the 2023 general elections. Saraki, who spoke on Friday when he visited the Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, at the Government House in Yenagoa, also said that he has the courage to restructure the country. According to a statement issued on Saturday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Daniel Alabrah, the former Senate President said the country was moving towards becoming a failed state in terms of security and its poor economy and needs a competent person like him to reverse the drift. -Advertisement- While lamenting the disunity among Nigerians, he said he would be the bridge to unite the north and the south, young and old as well as Christians and Muslims. Saraki, therefore, appealed for support from the state’s delegates in the party’s forthcoming primary election. Welcoming the former Kwara State governor, Diri said that Bayelsa delegates would support any presidential aspirant of the party that would restructure the country, if elected. He noted that as an oil and gas-producing state, which contributes huge revenue to the country’s economy, restructuring would ensure equity and fairness to the oil-bearing Niger Delta region, the state and the Ijaw nation in particular. The governor said the Federal Government, as presently constituted, does not encourage productivity and competitiveness. Rather, he said, it turns the federating units to beggars where states go cap in hand to Abuja on monthly basis for revenue sharing. POLL He said there is too much concentration of power at the centre, which has prevented the country from functioning effectively, adding that devolution of power would enable states to develop at their own pace. Diri restated his call on aspirants to place the interest of the party and country above their ambition, saying that as an opposition party, what is required to wrest power from the ruling party and rescue the country from total collapse, is unity among members. He said that Saraki has the capacity to govern Nigeria, stressing that only the PDP was capable of tackling the challenges facing the nation, and restore it to the path of growth and honour it was known for. Diri said, “You talked about certain things that touch us as a state. You talked about the restructuring of this country.” The Ijaws have always talked about justice and equity. As a state that produces oil and gas, which have been the mainstay of our economy, we subscribe to any aspirant that has included restructuring of this country in his manifesto, to ensure equity and justice.”