Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawal who is also one of the Presidential aspirants on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday in Minna, Niger state capital assured Nigerians that he would work hard to restore peace, unity, stability and security if voted President in 2023. The Senate President made the declaration in Government House, Minna when he visited the state in continuation of his consultations with APC delegates across the country ahead of the party’s national delegates’ conference. Senator Lawan told the delegates at the Government House, Minna, that all that he needed was their support to emerge the APC flag bearer and subsequently elected as president of Nigeria. The aspirant said voting for him is voting for peace, unity, economic and educational development, and security to enhance the required development of the country. According to him, “We have to educate our youth and give them the best education at primary and secondary schools as future leaders. I will reform the educational system, the opportunity to develop the country”. He added that “For the last three years I have been the Senate President and I have been able to work very well with my colleagues and have made the senate very peaceful and cooperative, it’s that kind of stability, peace and unity that I want to bring to the villa in 2023”. As a Senator for many years, Ahmed Lawan who also paid homage to the Emir of Minna, Alhaji Umar Farouk Bahago said he is not just competent but capable by years of experience to take Nigeria out of present socio-economic predicaments including insecurity and poverty ravaging a greater number of Nigerians. “If I become President I will consider restructuring the security architecture of Nigeria. I want to see a situation whereby citizens who give information on how to tackle the security situation are protected and traditional institutions as well playing their roles. It will be my priority to build on the successes of President Muhammadu Buhari”. Responding, Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello state has told Niger state APC delegates that the aspirant has laid down his plans for the state and Nigerians for consideration to emerge as the party’s Presidential candidate in 2023. As a Senator who has been at the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly since 1999, Governor Bello said the Senate President is eminently qualified haven broken the record as the longest-serving lawmaker in the National Assembly. Also speaking, Niger state Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Haliru Zakari Jikantoro reassured the party’s Presidential aspirant of the state delegates’ support. “Relax and be sure that the APC in Niger state is one big family”. Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, the Senate Chief Whip who accompanied the Senate President on the campaign visit told their host, ‘I have brought a good market for the people of Niger state.“The Senate has been playing opposition for years. I believe he will look into the economy, security and agriculture. I bought the form to run but, I decided to withdraw for him because we both can’t be running at the same time”.