Nigerian filmmakers have been challenged to use their skills to preserve Nigeria’s unity and promote African history to the rest of the world. Alhaji Lai Muhammed, Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, made the appeal while giving awards at the Zuma Film Festival’s closing ceremony in Abuja, Nigeria, with the theme “show the money.” Saying, “I believe that this year’s film festival has demonstrated to filmmakers how they can use new platforms to boost profitability and worldwide reach for their works by not just seeing but also touching and keeping money.” -Advertisement- He noted that he is proud that, the Nigerian Film Industry today is now the most important platform for showcasing the country’s arts and culture to the outside world. Earlier, the Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu said that Nollywood must be given the necessary support to thrive better and compete favorably in the global film market. Saying, this can only be achieved through robust partnership and collaboration. Aliyu called on members of the Nigerian industry to unite and ensure constructive and healthy competition among them. Meanwhile, the Managing Director of Nigeria Film Corporation Mr. Chidia Maduekwe believes that the creative economy of Nigeria can only grow further if programmes like the Zuma film festival are supported. POLL He said that the search and consumption of Nigerian movie content have increased tremendously due to the capacity to create jobs and wealth as well as promote peace and unity in the country. Mr. Maduekwe noted that the “government remains committed to promoting the growth of the sector by massively undertaking major policy decisions that are required. Film works must be protected.” The climax of the Zuma Film Festival witnessed the presentation of awards to winners and lifetime legendary actors and producers. The best actor was Ikechukwu Ike from Nigeria, best picture was Uche Udo, Nigeria, best foreign film went to Bangladesh, while best student film went to Kanzi Zange from the People’s Republic of China.