Bayern Munich will reportedly offer a contract worth €18 million per year to sign Barcelona forward Ousmane Dembele in a Bosman move. According to a report by French publication L’Equipe, Bayern Munich and Ousmane Dembele are in talks over a possible Bosman move in the summer transfer window. The Bundesliga champions are ready to offer the Barcelona forward a four-year contract worth €18 million per season. Ousmane Dembele has been an enigma during his ongoing five-year stint with Barcelona. While the Frenchman has always shown the enormous potential he possesses, his fitness issues and attitude problems have hampered his progress at Camp Nou. But Xavi Hernandez has overseen a pleasant transformation of the youngster, especially following the announcement of the talks between the club and the player breaking down. -Advertisement- Dembele has won over the Barcelona fans with elan and has supplied more assists than any other player in La Liga this season (13) despite playing only 20 games. But the 25-year-old’s long-term Barcelona future remains up in the air, with his contract running out next month. Such a situation has captured the attention of Barcelona. The interest from Bayern Munich could be stemming from the uncertainties surrounding the future of Serge Gnabry. In July, the German international will enter the final year of his contract and is no closer to reaching an agreement with Bayern Munich over a bumper new deal. The German international has been linked with a gamut of high profile clubs across Europe, with Barcelona also briefly showing an interest in him. Dembele has thus emerged as a viable target for Bayern Munich, who are scouring the market for a wide attacker heading into the summer transfer window. According to L’Equipe, the Bavarian giants are in talks with the Barcelona forward and are willing to offer him a four-year deal worth €18 million per year. The figure should trump Barcelona’s contract offer, considering the Catalan giants remain in financial turmoil. But recent reports have claimed that the La Liga heavyweights are confident about keeping hold of Dembele beyond the summer transfer window. However, it will be interesting to see if Bayern Munich’s imminent €18 million-a-year contract offer to Dembele does the trick, ending Barcelona’s hopes of keeping hold of the French forward.