Real Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti targets another Champions League Final and explains what the Merengues need to beat Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City tomorrow. The La Liga giants won their 35th La Liga title on Saturday, but have another important target to achieve this season. They will host Manchester City at the Bernabeu tomorrow in the second leg of the Champions League semi-finals. The Italian tactician has already won the Champions League three times as a coach, so he knows exactly what it takes to qualify for the Final tomorrow. -Advertisement- “If you reach the Champions League semis, the final, or even if you win it, the heart is not enough,” he said at a press conference, as quoted by Mundo Deportivo. “Personality is important, but there are many other crucial factors such as the individual qualities and the team’s commitment. If we want to win, the heart won’t be enough, nor the push that fans at the Bernabeu will surely give us. “You need all this to win the Champions League, just a part of it is not enough to make it.” Ancelotti said David Alaba wouldn’t be available, but the Austria international has been included in the squad list. Casemiro returns tomorrow after serving a one-match ban in the first leg. “History doesn’t count. Every game has its own story,” the former Milan coach continued. POLL “Manchester City have the advantage and we know we must do something more. It’s hard, but after winning the title and with the help of the Bernabeu, we can make it. “We need a complete performance. We must defend better than in Manchester and we press well to avoid passes between the lines and transitions. We don’t want to sit deep but we know that sometimes it will be necessary. What we need is a complete performance.” During his pre-match press conference, Manchester City coach Pep Guardiola revealed that he had congratulated Ancelotti for winning the title. The Spanish tactician also added that he admires the former Italy international, who can reach a Champions League Final for the fifth time in his coaching career.