ABUJA – Delegates to the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Primaries slated for Sunday, on Thursday in Abuja endorsed the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, to contest the President of Nigeria in the 2023 elections. Lawan’s endorsement followed a meeting with the Delegates led by the Chairman of the FCT Chapter of the party, Hon Abdulmalik Usman. At the meeting, the Senate President told the delegates that he is a detribalized Nigerian whose goal is to among others, revamp the economy, ensure security and create general stability in the country. -Advertisement- “The contest should be a contest of ideas and not where somebody comes from. “I can serve better having practised governance at close range with the presidency within the last three years. “I have four cardinal programmes revolving around security in all parts of the country, all-inclusive economy, agricultural revolution and functional education sector as the bedrock of National Development. “Your votes for me at the Presidential primary, are investments for a better Nigeria in no distant time,” he said. His position was reiterated by Senators at the venue who described Lawan’s Presidential aspiration as the needed saving grace for the ruling party in the coming election. POLL In a light mood, the Senate President put approval of his candidacy to voice votes of the delegates who all responded affirmatively. In his earlier remarks on behalf of Senators on the team, Senator Sani Musa ( Niger East) said Lawan’s candidacy will serve as a saving grace for APC in the 2023 general election. He said what Nigerians need today is a pan Nigerian President and not a regional or zonal one. “Based on indices and realities on the ground, as far as the 2023 general elections are concerned, the issue of where an aspirant comes from is not necessary. “What the country needs is stability and what APC as a party needs now is a candidate who can win the Presidential contest in 2023 through the required votes where they are. “Lawan’s candidacy fits into that and will be a saving grace for the party from being pushed into opposition,” he said. The Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu ( Abia North) , also spoke in the same vein by declaring that if voted for, Lawan would be President for all as demonstrated by his leadership of the Senate within the last three years. On his part, the FCT APC Chairman said they are for Lawan but want the National Assembly under his Chairmanship to be more responsive to aspirations and yearnings of indigenes of the Federal Capital Territory as regards, ministerial slot, proper administrative structure in form of mayoral status. ” National Delegates from FCT are no doubt, for you and will vote for you at the convention but as the Speaker of the FCT House of Assembly, we want all the critical demands forwarded to the National Assembly to be considered and approved “, he said.