A former Chief of Staff, Government House, Yenagoa, Konbowei Benson, has defeated the incumbent Senator representing Bayelsa Central, Moses Cleopas, at the senatorial primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) conducted in the state on Tuesday for the 2023 National Assembly polls. The exercise, which was held at the Samson Siasia Sport Complex, Yenagoa, had accredited delegates from the three local government areas that make up Bayelsa Central- Kololuma/Opokuma, Southern Ijaw and Yenagoa. Benson, a former speaker of the state House of Assembly, polled a total of 110 votes to pick the party’s ticket while Cleopas, who was seeking a return ticket to the Senate, scored 22 votes, according to the result announced by the returning officer, Dede Ofulu-John. -Advertisement- The process had earlier ran into a hitch after an error was detected on the ballot cast by the delegates, which had to do with the printing of the name of a House of Representatives aspirant from the district, Oforji Oboku, against the photo of Cleopas, whose name should have accordingly also reflected on the ballot. Delegates from Kolokuma/Opokuma and Southern Ijaw had voted and their counterparts from Yenagoa were about filing out to also vote when the agent of Cleopas raised the alarm over the error. In protest, Cleopas staged a walk out from the venue, describing the exercise as “an abnormality.” The senator said, “I cannot subject myself to such an abnormality. I have asked my agent to put in his protest, and I walk away from it (the primary election) and report (the matter) to the leader of the party.” However, soon after the aggrieved Cleopas walked out, members of the national PDP panel for the Bayelsa Central primary polls led by the acting chairman, Ugochukwu Okeke, and the state chairman of the party, Solomon Agwanana, entered the venue. POLL The intervention of Okeke and his team, however, resulted in the suspension of the exercise for five hours with a view to resolving the error to enable a fresh start. Speaking with journalists, Okeke said, “The picture of one of the aspirants is there (on the ballot) but the name is not there. So, we have got in touch with our headquarters in Abuja and they said that we should hold on. “We are not postponing the election, but we are holding on to see how we can resolve it. Whatever it is, we are going to ensure justice in the election and all the delegates will have the opportunity to cast their votes for their choice of candidate.” But after about five hours, the exercise resumed with the error corrected and Benson was declared winner at the end of voting by the returning officer, Dede Ofulu-John at 8.30pm. Benson thanked the state Governor, Douye Diri, his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, the national PDP panel for Bayelsa Central and the delegates as well as the security agencies for the successful and peaceful conduct of the primary polls.