AKINWUNMI KING As the date for the 2023 presidential election draws closer, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is determined to reclaim power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) even though the ruling party is committed to retaining the presidency beyond 2023. Analysts have argued that the 2023 presidential elections will present to the PDP a golden opportunity to wrest power from the APC but the greatest challenge facing the main opposition party is how to utilise this opportunity by presenting a candidate that can secure for the party sufficient votes throughout the country. As of today, all indices indicate that the APC’s presidential candidate may likely come from the South-West but the PDP, on the other hand, seems to remain in dilemma as to where its ticket will go. Presently, the PDP seems to be confused over the issue of zoning. While some stakeholders within the party are mulling the idea of consensus, others are rooting for an open ticket. Throwing the ticket open will mean that every interested aspirant will go into the primary and test their strength and popularity before the delegates. Meanwhile, if the party decides to adopt consensus, it means all other aspirants would step down for a particular candidate that will be endorsed by the party. Though the newly signed Electoral Act allows political parties to adopt consensus as a means or process of electing a candidate, this will have to be done with the consent of other aspirants vying for such a position. This is stated in Section 84(9) of the Electoral Act, which stipulates that, “A political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate.” Few weeks ago, it was reported that some of the PDP presidential aspirants have agreed to settle for consensus. The Consensus Group POLL Media reports claimed that at least four aspirants on the platform of the party said they would accept a consensus arrangement to position the party for victory in 2023. The aspirants were said to have made the disclosure while briefing journalists on the outcome of their visit to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia in his Umuobiakwa country home in Obingwa Local Government Area (LGA) on Tuesday, April 12, 2022. Speaking on behalf of other aspirants, the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, was quoted as saying that the decision was informed by their determination to make Nigeria better. He said the lives and welfare of Nigerians were more important than the individual ambition of every aspirant. “Nigerians are going through hardship and insecurity. These are the events that are happening in the country that make some of us see that we are doing the right thing. Let me reassure Nigerians that we are very determined and driven by the determination to make this country work. “If this is the sacrifice that we will make to turn things around in Nigeria, we want to let Nigerians know that we are willing to make it.” Saraki said that they were in Abia to seek the governor’s support to ensure that the consensus arrangement would work so that PDP would win the general elections. He pointed out that Ikpeazu’s encouraging words had inspired and further motivated them to move forward, adding that this was the first time aspirants would come together on their own to adopt a consensus arrangement. He said that although the initiative was a tough challenge, they were convinced it would make Nigeria work. “We are heading for Enugu to see the governor of the state and by the time we have visited Enugu we would have completed the tour of the 19 PDP states and the governors have shown their support,” he said. In his response, Ikpeazu expressed delight over the development, saying that it had rekindled his hope in the emergence of a new Nigeria. He described the consensus arrangement as “a commendable and altruistic initiative”, adding that it was borne out of the desire to forge an alliance to transform the nation. He added: “I want to say that you have my commitment and cooperation to move on and I will do my bit to ensure that all of us come together. The survival of our country, interest of the poor masses of the country should come before whatever personal agenda we have. I am happy that Nigeria has patriots and leaders, who are capable of putting Nigeria first.” There are claims that Saraki, Aminu Tambuwal, Bala Mohammed, governors of Sokoto and Bauchi respectively, and Mohammed Hayatu-Deen came together to engage in consultations towards agreeing on a consensus candidate. Although it is unclear whether the Iyorchia Ayu-led national leadership endorsed the move, the idea behind the consultations was that at the end of the day one of the aspirants will be selected as the party’s consensus presidential candidate. Towards actualising the consensus plan, sources claimed that Saraki, Mohammed, Tambuwal and Hayatu-Deen embarked on consultations with party stakeholders across the country, preaching the need for the PDP to unite around a particular aspirant ahead of the general elections. As it was gathered, at a meeting with the Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, who also heads the PDP presidential election zoning committee, in Makurdi, on March 28, Saraki made a case for the adoption of the consensus option. Meanwhile, there was a media report, last Friday, which stated that a group of Northern elders led by former Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, had shortlisted Saraki and Mohammed in the interim. This was contained in a communique signed by a former Vice Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, in which the Northern leaders said the selection of Saraki and Bala Mohammed was arrived at based on certain criteria adopted in the assessment of the four aspirants who submitted themselves for the exercise. The communique read in part: “For the purpose of this exercise, it is hereby resolved that Gov. Bala Mohammad from the North-East and former Senate President Bukola Saraki from the North-Central be presented as the Northern consensus candidates for the moment. “It was resolved that a leading aspirant from the North-Central and one from the North-East are to be presented as Northern Presidential candidates. “The two would in turn be required to make further concessions so that in the end, one of them would be presented as the consensus candidate, out of the four that presented themselves from the North. “It should be recalled that four major presidential aspirants in the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, have met and decided to limit the number of aspirants from Northern Nigeria by forming a consensus among themselves. The candidates that presented themselves for the consensus are Gov. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Gov. Bala Mohammed, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. “This was indeed a commendable development and a huge sacrifice for the love of the country and the northern region in particular on the part of the four aspirants. Consequently, all the four aspirants visited the former military President, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida and gave him the mandate to lead the process for a consensus and agreed to abide by the outcome of the decision. “The former President encouraged the aspirants to have a resolve within themselves and come up with one candidate, which they reported back to him after some days and asked him to go ahead and pick one out of the four. “General Babangida, on his part, opted for inclusion, through wider consultation and assigned me to design a criterion and carry out the necessary consultations with elders and leaders across the three geo-political zones of the North.” In phase one of the exercise tagged “andidates’ assessment”, the communique added that the opinions of six distinguished persons each from the three geo-political zones, were sought with regards to each of the four aspirants. “Each of the zonal delegates were allocated two votes to choose the first and second choice making a total of 36 votes overall. “At the end of this phase, Saraki and Gov. Mohammed scored 10 votes each while Tambuwal and Hayatu-Deen got 7 and 5 votes respectively. “One of the elders deferred his votes on grounds of continuing consultations with traditional rulers and other major stakeholders. Two members did not cast their second ballots bringing the total to 32 votes cast out of 36,” the communique further noted. “In phase two (zonal assessment), Saraki got 8 votes, while Bala Mohammed and Aminu Tambuwal got seven and two votes respectively. No vote was recorded for Hayatu-Deen. In the third phase, “PDP previous experiences”, Ango Abdulllahi stressed on behalf of the group: “In the end, resort was made to the historical antecedents of the PDP with regards to previous northern aspiration and the following conclusion was reached: “That the North-West has had the opportunity of contesting and even forming government in 2007. “In 2011, a consensus was made among the four northern candidates, which North-East got but lost at the primaries. In 2019, it got the slot again though the party could not form the government. “The North-Central has not had a single opportunity to get the PDP ticket since the inception of the current Fourth Republic.” Ango Abdulllahi, on behalf of the Northern leaders urged Saraki and Bala Mohammed to work together to make allowance for further consultations “to foster understanding among themselves, and the PDP community to ensure a rancour-free primaries in which all eligible delegates would be free to exercise their right.” Consensus Moves Crash Tambuwal reportedly backed out of the consensus arrangement later on when it became clear that Saraki and Bala Mohammed were highly favoured. He has since appointed a chairman for his campaign council in the person of former Akwa Ibom military administrator, Senator Tunde Ogbeha. Following the adoption of Saraki and Mohammed as Northern consensus candidates, Babangida-led group, leaders of the party from the 19 northern states, on Monday, said the PDP remained a party for Nigerians not an ethnic party for the South or North. The leaders, made up of former governors, ministers and federal and states’ legislators, dismissed the Babangida/Ango Abdulllahi-led group that produced Saraki and Mohammed, saying the founding fathers of the PDP created a party of national consensus where every zone or region had a sense of belonging. In a joint communique by former Jigawa State governor, Sule Lamido, and former Minister of Police Affairs, Adamu Waziri, the PDP leaders urged all presidential aspirants to head to the convention to test their popularity. The communique read in part, “We would like to state from the onset that there is nothing called the Northern PDP. Our coming together as key stakeholders from the northern states is only for the purpose of debunking any notion or impression, which might have been created by Prof Ango Abdullahi’s media statement about the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), having shortlisted consensus PDP presidential candidates. “The Peoples Democratic Party as conceived by its founding fathers is and remains the foremost national political platform wherein the democratic aspirations of its teeming members can be actualised devoid of any sectional consideration. Our party is neither Northern nor Southern but Nigeria. “We are happy to note that the Northern Elders Forum has, through its Secretary, Dr. Hakeem Baba Ahmed, disassociated itself from Prof. Ango’s media statement. They made it clear that it is Ango’s personal opinion.” The Lamido-led group noted that it had been informed that, “they are discussing among themselves. They are consulting other senior citizens in order to create a better understanding and unity among themselves. “Their ultimate objective is to build a national consensus that will produce a national candidate for the party.” The communique further read, “Our meeting today is to reinforce the press release issued on 23rd April, 2022 by Sule Lamido. “We maintain that all our aspirants are qualified to occupy the Nigerian Presidency under the PDP banner and we shall continue to support, promote and campaign and win the Presidency by the candidate produced by our national convention scheduled for May 28-29, 2022. “We appeal to all aspirants to be more temperate in their utterances and work to promote harmony and better understanding within the PDP family. “We also want to assure all PDP members and indeed all Nigerians that we are aware of your pains, prayers, expectations, and hope to be rescued. Your abiding faith in PDP shall set us free in 2023.” Many of the presidential aspirants have come out to deny their involvement in the consensus arrangement, as they insist that all of them must be given a level playing field to contest in a free and fair primary election. Speaking on the consensus arrangement by the northern elders, Atiku Abubakar notified his supporters that he did not subject himself to such a deal organised by the IBB-led group, and was therefore not bound to their selection of a candidate for the PDP. Atiku spoke through a press statement by the Chairman of the Technical Committee for the Actualisation of Atiku Abubakar’s Presidency in 2023 (TEECOM), Chief Raymond Dokpesi, last weekend. TEECOM’s statement read, “It must be stated categorically and equivocally that; Waziri Atiku Abubakar, the Vice President Federal Republic of Nigeria (from) 1999- 2007, was never a part of this purported consensus arrangement, neither did he at any time nor in any place, subject himself to any purported consensus process. “Therefore, Waziri Atiku Abubakar is not bound by any of the recommendations and conclusions of the purported report.” The campaign organisation stressed that Atiku never believed in any consensus arrangement because it would further widen and deepen the regional, zonal, and ethno-religious “wounds that urgently need to be healed,” in the country. In the same vein, Tambuwal rejected the arrangement, saying the move has failed and he is now prepared for a primary election. Tambuwal, in a statement by his campaign office, said, “For the avoidance of doubt, Gov Tambuwal has submitted his Presidential nomination forms and now that the quest for a consensus candidate out of the four has clearly collapsed, will go ahead and face screening and indeed contest the PDP presidential primaries, just as he insisted that the announcement by Prof. Ango Abdullahi is false. In like manner, Hayatu-Deen, dissociated himself from the announcement of Mohammad and Saraki as the preferred Northern consensus candidates for the PDP by the Prof. Ango Abdullahi-led committee. In a statement by the Director-General, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen Campaign Organisation, Senator Isa Galaudu, the politician said he could not reach an accord with Saraki, Bala Mohammed and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal before they parted ways on the issue. “For the record, it must be stated that the four candidates seeking a consensus had agreed that the process had collapsed prior to this announcement. The candidates could not reach a compromise resulting in the decision of our principal, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, and Governor Aminu Tambuwal to discontinue the process. The campaign organisation explained that the purpose of last Saturday’s meeting was for candidates who participated in the consensus process to express their gratitude to the Northern Elders for their efforts in seeking a consensus. It further stated that, “Unfortunately, one of the candidates had other plans which led to a press conference that misrepresented the outcome of the closed-door meeting. “After this announcement, we consulted with the Northern Elders’ Forum and agreed that the campaign of Mohammed Hayatu-Deen would henceforth proceed independently to maintain the sanctity and integrity of the People’s Democratic Party. “The sham news conference we witnessed yesterday reiterates the fact that Nigeria needs a new breed of leaders. We believe that true leadership should be built on the principles of truth, integrity, and equity. “Going forward, the focus of our candidate, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, is to prove to our great party and Nigerians in general that he is the best man for the job, as we proceed towards a truly democratic process at the PDP primaries.” Also speaking, one of the aspirants, Dele Momodu, said the move for a consensus PDP flagbearer was dead on arrival. He said, “I see a very dangerous kind of desperation in our career politicians in Nigeria as our country prepares for the 2023 presidential election. It is unfortunate that some of our leaders are toying with the hard fought democracy most of them were never part of. “At a time our country is at its worst state in decades, career politicians are only interested in hijacking power for themselves and they are totally disinterested in engaging the electorate on how they plan to rescue our country and its long-suffering people from the brink of total collapse. “The concept of consensus as practiced in Nigeria is anathema to democracy because it is based on everything that democracy is not. It denies merit, enshrines illegality and enthrones mediocrity. Moreover, it embraces corruption, bullying and other unseen ills and threats. “How are the proponents of consensus different from President Muhammadu Buhari, who has virtually taken over the control of APC as the Alpha and Omega? How will they enforce their consensus on someone like me when I have bought my nomination form and I am ready to contest all the way? “They should please preserve their energy and let the people make their choices in a free and fair contest. That is the essence of democracy.” Sam Ohuabunwa, who is also a presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, questioned the principles that would govern the choice of a consensus presidential candidate being promoted. He is of the opinion that consensus should not be approximated to an arm-twisting scenario, saying, “Why is the talk of consensus at this time when the clamour for a Nigerian president of South-East extraction has gained critical mass at the national level? “Someone brought the idea of this consensus to my attention, to buy into it. When 10 people are contesting or vying for a position, you don’t exclude nine to the advantage of one person. Consensus must be a collective decision of all those involved in this game. Period.” Analysts believe that sparks would fly on Wednesday May 4, when the PDP National Executive Committee (NEC) meets to deliberate on a variety of issues, particularly the review of the zoning committee report, venue and methodology for a seamless Presidential primary. What direction PDP is headed, whether there would be tempest or tempers will cool for reason to prevail would be seen after the party’s NEC meets on Wednesday.