Six House of Representatives aspirants on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) have demanded a new date for the party’s primary in the Ibadan North-West/South-West constituency. They told newsmen on Monday at Lafia Hotel in Ibadan, that the election was earlier suspended through an agreement unanimously signed by all the aspirants. The aspirants addressed some members and delegates at the venue of the primary to establish no election took place. -Advertisement- The six aspirants are Chief Rotimi Ajanaku, Mrs Folake Olunloyo-Oshinowo, Mogaji Samuel Ajadi, Mr Biodun Ikumoguniyi, Mr Temitope Oyewale and Mr Mutair Fasola. Oyewale, who read a petition on behalf of other aspirants, said that they had unanimously agreed to suspend thez primaries as a result of the fake delegates list. He said that they’d earlier been told that an authentic delegates list would bear the stamp of APC, and INEC and presented with the party’s letterhead paper. “When we got to the hall to meet the electoral committee, we requested for the list and what we got were mutilated sheets with cancelled names and handwritten names on it. POLL “We were told that the list was given to the committee by the two local government party chairmen. The INEC stamp was not on the list presented,” he said. Oyewale said that they were surprised to hear that one of them, Saheed Fijabi had declared himself the winner of a primary which never took place. Ajanaku said that they have submitted their demands to the committee and expected a positive response from them. “We have submitted our demand to the committee that they should give us a date as soon as possible to conduct the election. “And if this is not given as demanded, we will challenge the matter in court,” he said. Ajadi said that what they were demanding from the committee was a new date for the conduct of the election. “What we are asking for right now I’d for them to give us a date when the primary election will be conducted as soon as possible,” he said. Oshinowo, Ikumoguniyi and Fasola in their separate remarks, expressed confidence that the party would not shortchange them or allow anyone to perpetuate illegalities.