There are failures of governance and there are failures of governance! Nigerians used to gripe arrogantly about the country’s prestige and pride of place in Africa and the globe. When, the Second Republic incepted in 1979 with President Shehu Shagari’s inauguration, Nigerians, as arrogant as they were then, never stopped complaining. Yet, by then, respectable primary and secondary schools as well as universities abounded. And by such, I mean public schools. The interstate dual carriage-ways were connecting one Nigerian state with another, and they were as smooth as conveyor belts. -Advertisement- Then the military shot its way into power -again -, and before the soldiers left the stage when democracy returned in 1999, Nigeria had been fatally battered. The Obasanjo, Yar’Adua and the Jonathan administrations under the Peoples Democratic Party tried their hands at putting Nigeria on an even keel, but they too registered some fatal failures. Yet, and this is important, some of their failures were not hidden or excused by their fellow PDP members. Now, please note what follows: as the Obasanjo administration was winding up, and the ministers congregated for their last group photo right inside Aso Rock after their valedictory Federal Executive Council meeting, General T. Y. Dajuma, then still the Minister of Defence, announced that the government had failed because “we failed to grow the economy and grow jobs”. Actually, Danjuma did not say anything new. All through Obasanjo’s first tenure (1999 -2003) the House of Representatives led by a PDP member Speaker, the illustrious Ghali Na’Abba, (in a House of Representatives in which the PDP had a comfortable majority) led in the effort to keep Obasanjo on his toes. POLL They opened up inquiries into the transparency of the operations undertaken by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (now the corporation has been changed to Company). Once in a while, the Representatives even invoked the “I“ (impeachment) word against Obasanjo. It was actually from that arm of the House of Assembly that the message went forth across the land that the Obasanjo administration had failed irredeemably. With time, especially, after Evans Enwerem, the Senate President, fell and Dr. Chuba Okadigbo replaced him, the Senate joined in excoriating Obasanjo’s hapless administration. Please compare that era to the present, and you would know that the National Assembly of that time knew that it was an arm of government totally independent of the Executive. The National Assembly of that era knew that it was the representative of the Nigerian peoples and should have an oversight function over the Executive – on the people’s behalf. But what obtains today? It appears that the National Assembly thinks itself to be an extension of the Executive. And the outcome stares us all in the face! Today, Nigeria is steeped in failure at every turn. In every index, Nigeria hugs the part representing not just failed nations but the very worst among the failed nations. The Naira is now close to being worthless. Electricity supply is almost non-existent. Water supply to homes and industries is so negligible that many Nigerians do not know that a public water supply system exits. The manufacturing base of the economy is steadily being eroded. The public school system is comatose, so comatose that the very teachers in government- owned primary and secondary schools actually pay exorbitantly to send the children to privately owned schools. The Federal and State Universities have remained closed owing to a lengthy lecturers’ strike. And then, there is insecurity everywhere! Yet, none of the failures mentioned above is as troubling as the failure I am about to mention next; the enthronement of shameless rubberstamp-ism. It is noteworthy that those who took the reins of the PDP after the 2003 election had ensured that those young turks who had cried out that Obasanjo’s failures were destroying Nigeria, and so had opposed him – the likes of Nduka Irabor and Ghali Na’Abba (as well as the old turks such as Chuba Okadigbo himself – were not allowed to return to the National Assembly. That was how Obasanjo could fluff away four years of his second term in the Third Term useless effort, because of a cowering National Assembly. Now, the ill of rubberstamp-ism is in full stride. All the APC members who have declared their interest to become President come 2023, have never hinted that anything is wrong with the Nigerian economy or national security. And I hope, dear reader, you are not asking me to assume that all of such candidates know that a lot is wrong but are being diplomatic about it, because that was how Buhari was re-elected despite his glaring 2015 to 2019 failures but he refused to learn any lessons or introduce any change after his second inaugural speech. This arrogance of failure is not only galling, but it is destructive, in that the concept of failure is becoming blurred in Nigeria. Already, we have seen the failure of a messiah that Nigerians celebrated as he was succeeding President Goodluck Jonathan. He was heralded as Nigeria’s ultimate hero and messiah. Today, his administration has not made Nigeria better in any way. In fact Nigeria has become worse in every way. Yet, today, I must say with Marie Corelli (in The Sorrows of Satan): “But I do not write with any hope of either persuading or enlightening my fellow-men. I know their obstinacy too well”. This is Nigeria where democracy is a joke, where ethnicity is all that matters and where the truth changes colour every moment. Those who excoriated President Jnnathan and the PDP the most (including journalists, clergymen and NGOs) are now playing dead. Those who marched in the streets over the high pump price of petrol have gone lame even as the price under Jonathan’s administration has doubled. So, one could rightly ask how many problems afflicting Nigeria in 2015 has President Buhari and his APC political party solved since Nigeria voted them into power? You may ask how much electricity that is consumed nationwide and the answer would make you weep. According to The PUNCH newspaper of March 5th 2022, “After hitting a peak of 4,582.2 megawatts on Wednesday, March 2, 2022, Nigeria’s power generation on the national grid dropped by 598.3MW to 3,983.9MW on Thursday, March 3, 2022, latest grid performance released on Friday showed. This came as the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company Plc informed its customers in Kogi, Niger, Nasarawa and Abuja that the current low and unstable supply of electricity to homes and businesses was as a result of low power generated to the national grid”. Nigeria had hit the 3,900 megawatts level almost all through the month of March 2015. For instance, Nigeria had 3,914.75megawatts on 29 March 2015. This year, a high government official blamed the current wave of poor power supply experienced in the Federal Capital Territory and other parts of the country on low water levels in hydropower dams. Offering further explanations reasons for the blackouts, the Chief Marketing Officer, AEDC, Donald Etim, said in a statement issued in Abuja that “in recent weeks, the level of power generated and served to the national grid for onward delivery to customers has been abysmally low”. That was in May; the Chief Marketing Officer had forgotten that in April the national grid had collapsed two times. And a system collapse meant there was no electricity anywhere in Nigeria. The THISDAY newspaper of April 9, 2022 captured it thus in “Darkness Nationwide as Power Grid Collapses Again” report: “The nation’s electricity grid crashed again yesterday after the collapse to zero generation and supply recorded in March, which plunged many homes and businesses into total darkness and resultant pains. “The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) disclosed the latest grid collapse yesterday in a mail sent to its customers, saying the collapse happened at 6:30pm leading to outages across its network.” During an administration headed by a one-time Petroleum Minister who as President retained that portfolio, any Nigerian would have been right to expect that petrol importation would be a thing of the past. But not in Nigeria under Buhari and the APC. According to a Dataphite report of March 30, 2022, “The NNPC announced in 2021, that it spent N100 billion to rehabilitate refineries although the refineries have yet to bridge the gap on refined petroleum products despite the investments. Just recently, the country imported ‘dirty fuel’, a development that has led to fuel scarcity which is still ongoing in some parts of the country”. Pray, what has resulted from the large investment of (N100 billion) on the refineries? Absolutely nothing in terms of locally refined petrol. The exact effect on Nigeria’s economy is this, according to Dataphile: “The lack of functional refineries has meant continuous importation of refined petroleum for Nigeria. For instance, Nigeria spent 37.9 billion dollars to import refined petrol between 2015 and 2019. “Already, refined petroleum takes the largest chunk of Nigeria’s import bill. Between 2015 and 2019, Nigeria’s total import value stood at $220.2 billion. In the same period, refined petroleum imports contributed $37.85 billion. This is almost 17 percent (16.91%) of the total import value. An analysis of the data on product importation by Nigeria revealed that almost 17 out of every 100 dollars spent by Nigeria companies on product imports is spent on refined petroleum”. May 8, 2022 is this article’s publication date. Buhari’s administration’s expiration date is May 29 next year. Yet, some APC top shots are saying that the Buhari administration has been focused on providing infrastructures for the country. That is actually laughable for infrastructure means this: the basic physical and organizational structures and facilities (e.g. buildings, roads, power supplies) needed for the operation of a society or enterprise. That is why bureaucrats talk about “the social and economic infrastructure of a country.” The Cambridge dictionary describes infrastructure as “the basic systems and services, such as transport and power supplies, that a country or organization uses in order to work effectively”. Could someone please tell the APC loud mouths that infrastructure also includes petrol refineries and power generation and transmission facilities. The entire aviation sector may soon experience a total shot down over the punishingly high cost of aviation fuel! Buhari and Lai Muhammed begin and end every address with the problems inherited from President Jonathan. Perhaps they should be reminded of a statement Alhaji Lai Mohammed signed as Interim National Publicity Secretary of the APC on Dec 1, 2013 in Lagos. While lambasting the PDP on the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) that was on then, he said: “What is a President elected to do if not to solve problems?”. You now know my title’s provenance; it rests on a solid authority of a serving Minister.