The search for the best secondary school teacher in Nigeria commenced on Thursday as the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund declared the 8th edition of the competition open. Created in 2015 and funded through the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund, the competition is aimed at recognizing and celebrating exceptional secondary school teachers in Nigeria for their contribution and impact on developing tomorrow’s leaders. Speaking at the flag-off of the 8th edition which was held at the NBL PLc Headquarters in Iganmu, Lagos, the Company Secretary/Legal Director, NBL Plc, Mr. Uaboi Agbebaku lauded the roles teachers are playing in the lives of the Nigerian child, saying that no reward on earth will be enough to compensate for the amazing selfless work teachers do every year. -Advertisement- Agbebaku, who represented the management of the organization, advised eligible teachers in public and private schools to participate by logging on to the dedicated website: www.maltinateacheroftheyear.com. Speaking on the commencement of entries, he announced that the competition commenced immediately on Thursday, May 26th and closes on Friday, July 22nd, 2022. To be eligible, a participant must be a classroom teacher employed by a school in Nigeria, not older than 55-years-old, and must be registered with the TRCN. To participate, interested teachers are to visit www.maltinateacheroftheyear.com, complete the form and submit it directly on the website, or download the application form, fill, scan and send the completed form by hand or mail to maltinateacheroftheyear@heineken.com. The 2021 competition had 1001 entries with 813 valid entries from 33 states of the federation. The Company Secretary/Legal Director disclosed that the overall winner would go home with a total of N6.5m, a plaque and a certificate, adding that the grand winner would go home with N1 million as a national champion and another N500, 000 as a state champion on the day of the award ceremony in October where he or she would be unveiled, the person would also be paid N1 million yearly for the next five years. POLL Besides, he announced that the school represented by the winner would get a block of six classrooms or a laboratory depending on its needs. Emphasising that participants can also submit entry forms by hand, Agbebaku said the first and second runners-up would receive N1 million and N750, 000 respectively, plus another N500, 000 as state champions, while other state winners would also go home with N500, 000 each. Agbebaku commended all educational stakeholders working with the company on the initiative, including Federal and State Ministries of Education, the NUT, All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS) and the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) for their support. The TRCN Registrar/CEO, Professor Olusegun Ajiboye and the Lagos NUT Chairman, Comrade Hassan Akintoye in their goodwill messages lauded the sustenance of the annual competition and called for more participation by teachers across the country. Since its inception, the Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative has produced seven grand winners, Rose Nkemdilim Obi, Anambra (2015), Imoh Essien, Akwa Ibom (2016), Felix Ariguzo, Delta State (2017), Olasunkanmi Opeifa, FCT (2018), Ezem Collins (2019), Oluwabunmi Ahoefa Anani (2020) and Abanika Taiye (2021). The Fund has footprints across the six geographical zones in Nigeria at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education. Through the Fund, NB Plc has constructed and furnished over 400 classrooms, sanitary facilities and libraries in 74 communities across the country. The Fund has also granted scholarships to deserving students in tertiary institutions.