Uromi Like Minds Initiative (ULMI) with members home and abroad, has commenced the renovation of the Edo State Library situated in Uromi, the administrative headquarters of Esan North-East Local Government Area of the state. The group, in a telephone conversation with selected journalists from the UK, said that the project is part of its corporate social responsibility. The group has in the last two years since its establishment been involved in some community and human capacity development projects. -Advertisement- “Only during the last Easter celebration, it supplied some orphanage and old people’s homes relief materials and food items to celebrate the season. While speaking to newsmen on the matter recently, Chairman of welfare committee and Vice Chairman of the organisation, Engr. Sebastine Osita described the library project as the biggest project the organisation has embarked on since its formation two years ago and harped on the need for students in the community to rekindle their interest in learning, being one of the reasons for the project. Osita said, “ This particular project is dear to my heart because in my earlier years in the town I had the privilege of visiting the library to study and having unrestricted access to various textbooks. “The serenity of the library provided a perfect environment for study. It was also a place to meet and share ideas with students from other schools. “Having enjoyed all these privileges in the past, it was heartwarming when we as a group decided to take on the effort to revive the library” POLL “So, our strategy is to first provide a modern library with ICT facilities and then follow with an awareness campaign aimed at encouraging full utilization,” Osita said. Picking the Uromi library was not a difficult decision to take according to the ULMI vice-chairman. “As you know, we met towards the end of the year to select projects/programs that will be executed in the following year once approved by the Exco team, and blessed by the entire members at the General Meeting. On his part, the executive chairman of the organisation which has its members across the globe, Mr Sylvester Abumere Ekpen, recalled how the state-owned library had in the past been a source for learning and getting academic material and harped on the need to bring back the past glory of the institution through this renovation works and equipping it with books, ICT. The renovation work on the building has cost ULMI N4.6m, which is being handled by an indigenous firm, Melvin Global LTD and the completion is estimated to be within five weeks, according to Prince Kenneth Edenojie who is the association`s director of Projects.