***Says ‘I Was Not Given Equal Opportunities In Election Process’ LAGOS – Chief Lawani, former Benue State Deputy Governor and one of the Guber aspirants for the state has faulted the just concluded All Progressive Congress (APC) primary election that took place in his state. Lawani, who expressed displeasure over the mode of the primary election , stated that he was not given equal opportunities in the process of nominating a governorship candidate for the party ahead of 2023. -Advertisement- While thanking his supporters who stood firm in their unwavering belief in his reform-promising aspiration across the state, Lawan said he will keep hope alive towards his ambitions. “ Your support was overwhelming. It further demonstrates an unusual willingness by the generality of Benue people to usher in purposeful leadership for the state. “I particularly feel the disappointment of the good people of Zone C who invested enormous faith in my aspiration with the hope that we would break the jinx of over 45years and produce the first Governor of Benue state from the Benue South District.” “I am equally disappointed we could not achieve that age-long desire. As you all know, we ran an exhaustive campaign, consulted widely across the state and worked even harder because we knew that being from the minority, we had to double our efforts to stand a chance to win. I cherish your support and faith in me.” “Recall that during my consultations, I was emphatic that if I win the governorship position of the state in 2023, I will become the first Benue state governor of Idoma extraction but that I do not want to be the last. That I will work, work and work so that whenever there is leadership deficiency in the state, our brothers in zones A and B will look up to the Idoma nation for leadership. I might not stand the chance to achieve that aim in again, but we have succeeded in creating a fertile ground for our collective destiny to continue to thrive.” POLL A statement further signed by Comrade Sylvanus Okpe, the Director, Media and Publicity Lawani Campaign Organization (LACO) on behalf of Lawani further implored his cherished supporters, to remain calm and law abiding. “I also want it on record that we were not given equal opportunities in the process of nominating a governorship candidate for our party ahead of 2023. As aspirants, we received an official notice for a change of the mode of primaries at 12pm, on the day the indirect primary was already scheduled to hold. At that time, we already made every necessary preparations for an indirect primary election. Even when the direct primary mode was adopted, as an aspirant, I was unaware of where and how the election was to be conducted.” “I was never contacted to send agents for the purposes of any election. I was not informed at what locations in the wards the election was to hold as required by law and there was no electoral committee set up to collate the results across the 276 wards of the state. No electoral materials were deployed in any part of the state in prosecution of the said election and no party register for proper identification of registered party members as well as proper accreditation of intended voters.” “I was therefore surprised to read yesterday (28th of May, 2022), that the election had been conducted with an imaginary votes allotted to all aspirants, and a winner declared.” “Despite this obvious provocation, I wish to implore you, our cherished supporters, to remain calm and law abiding. Our next line of action will be properly communicated in a more detailed release at the appropriate time,” he said.