Chief Anita Nana Okuribido is the president of Smiling Simon Greenbuild Foundation, president of Women in Renewable Energy Association; founder and first female of the Women Green Energy in Africa, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks on how the policies of the government are not friendly to the green energy sector and women. Excerpts: What does the foundation do? Smiling Simon Greenbuild Foundation provides high capacity renewable energy devices, which include solar and biomass. -Advertisement- We encourage the use of energy that is made from charcoal of palm fronds. We want to encourage everybody to go green. We provide green efficient energy devices. We hope to make Nigerians energy independent and sufficient. We want to create a situation in which when there is a power outage, you do not have to be sad, you just bring out your green or solar device and continue with what you are doing. What advantages do renewables have over energy from petroleum? Energy from petroleum emits carbon dioxide and sulfur and these harm the environment; green devices are environment friendly and do not emit carbon dioxide. POLL We want to protect the environment; our actions are geared towards mitigating climate change. Have Nigerians accepted renewable energy? Nigerians are happy with green and renewable energy; but they have an issue with cost because it is expensive relative non-renewable source of energy. The initial cost is high but if you spread the cost over a period of time like one or two years, it becomes cheaper than energy from petrol or diesel. Kerosene, petrol and diesel will give you dangerous fumes, which are dangerous to the health of the people and the environment. However, with the use of green energy, you protect the health of the people and the environment at the same time; the air is clean and people will live longer in good health. You reduce the incidence of cancers, asthma and other diseases; these diseases lead to early and untimely deaths among the people. If we curb environmental pollution with the use of green energy, people will live longer. How long have you been in the business? I have been in the business for over 35 years At the beginning, I was creating awareness and doing capacity building and skill acquisition programmes; I still do that. Most of the people who work for me and those who work with me were attendees at our capacity building programmes. They attended our academy and they are doing fine. We also have the first Green Women Institute in Africa; the aim is to empower women in the green economy so that they can position themselves. Some people see the green energy sector as only for men to do. We want to change that and position to play top roles in the sector. How has the business fared over the years? I would say the business has flourished over the years; if you know how to manage your finances, you will succeed in the business. You should make sure that you restock at the appropriate time. What challenges do you face? The main challenge is finance; the sector is capital intensive. You need good capital to do the business in a sustainable manner. The energy policies are not green and women friendly. The government should relax some of the polies for women. The government should reduce duties on green devices; it should not treat green devices in the same it treats electronics. It is zero duty on green devices in some countries and Nigeria should do the same.