Four journalists were on Monday arrested in Edo State for allegedly covering a parallel senatorial primary which took place at the Event Centre, adjacent to the Benin Airport in Benin city while one of the PDP delegates was allegedly shot dead at the venue. Although the unconfirmed report said the victim is the chairman of one of the electoral Ward in Oredo local government of the state. Those arrested, according to the report are Sunny Ohioze of AIT and his cameraman, Deborah Coker of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) and Ogbom of ITV -Advertisement- Daily Independent gathered that the four journalists were arrested by the police on the order of the head of the Edo Security Network and were taken to the Command, Intelligence Rapid Response Squad at Oko Central in Benin where they were interrogation and detained for over five hours before they were left off the hook. Deborah Coker, one of the victims while lamenting her ordeal to Daily Independent said, “We were arrested, detained for about five hours and interrogated on trump up accusations that we went to cover a parallel primary. We were interrogated on why we went to cover a parallel primary and who invited us to cover it after which we were whisked away by the police. Confirming the incidents, Edo Police Command’s spokesman, Bello Kontongs said no death was reported and if there was one his office has not been briefed and confirmed the arrest of the four journalists, adding that four journalists were actually arrested but have been released and did not give the reason of their arrest. Meanwhile, the results of the PDP senatorial primaries from the three senatorial districts of Edo state are: POLL Edo North Pascal Ugbome got 140 votes to defeat Tony Ezekiel and Wilson Osigwe who got 11 and 47 votes in Dan Orbih’s faction respectively, while in Obaseki’s faction, Mrs. Victoria Edelokun was returned unopposed. In Edo Central, Clifford Ordia was returned unopposed in the Obaseki faction. While Mike Onolememen defeated Friday Itulah with 123 to 17 votes in Orbih’s faction. And in Edo South, Matthew Iduoriyekemwen defeated Senator Matthew Urhoghide with 113 to 103 votes in the Obaseki faction, while Ogbeide Ihama was returned unopposed in the Orbih faction.