Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, the Primate of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), has said that any gospel that places emphasis on becoming rich and having material possession without due process is ‘Yahoo yahoo’ gospel. Ndukuba stated this at the commendation service for the late Rt Rev Peter Adebiyi. The commendation service was held exactly nine years after the retirement of the late Bishop at the Archbishop Vining Memorial Cathedral Church, Ikeja, Lagos. Adebiyi was the pioneer Bishop of the Diocese of Lagos West and retired as Bishop of the diocese on April 27, 2013 after serving the diocese for nine years. He died on February 10, 2022 and was buried on Friday, April 29, 2022 at Osi Ekiti, his hometown. At the commendation service which attracted about 28 bishops of the church and several dignitaries from across Nigeria and abroad, Ndukuba harped on the message of hope and warned against the epicurean lifestyle. According to him, “If your hope is to make it, break it, and possess it, it’s yahoo yahoo.” The primate stated that without hope people live in desperation noting that some people don’t mind wasting the lives of others because of their own hopeless situation. According to him, “The worst thing that can happen to you is to live without eternal hope. Our young people have bought into materialistic gospel because the message we hear is no longer repent and be saved. It is no longer the spiritual revival that brought about economic revival.” POLL He expressed worry over what would happen to the nation after the crop of people nurtured with godly fear had gone. “I wonder what will happen if those nurtured with godly fear get out of the system. The people that are following don’t know what they are doing. The commitment is not there. We are in a consumerist society.” He noted that Apostle Paul warned against materialistic gospel, he said, “Hedonism has taken over, epicurean philosophy of old has taken over.” Ndukuba said without hope people live in desperation, adding, “For the believer in Christ hope is a person, it is Jesus Christ. It is the person of Jesus that can turn things around. If there is anything not connected with Jesus, it is a dead hope.” He stressed: “By the resurrection of Jesus we are born again to a living hope. Hope is an essential factor in surviving. Whatever we are passing through is for a while. Thank God for Good Friday but that was not the end, victory came because there was Easter. No matter what you pass through there is hope.” He advised that people should patiently wait on the Lord to fix things in their lives. “When you hope for something you wait patiently. The goal and purpose of God in your life will be accomplished,” he assured. On the late Bishop, Ndukuba said, “Baba Adebiyi served the purpose of God in his generation. He was so committed and loyal. He was known for integrity in the House of Bishop. “Baba Akinola would always say Peter come. You could confide in him. He was not one of those who will call you names at the back.” The Bishop of the diocese of Lagos West, The Rt. Rev. James Odedeji, thanked everyone at the service, even as he recalled the great work that the late Bishop Adebiyi did while serving in the diocese.