The General Manager, Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency (LASCOPA), Afolabi Solebo, has enjoined supermarkets and grocery store operators across the State to imbibe proper and effective conduct in the management and running of their outlets within by the metropolis to avoid contravening relevant laws guiding their conduct and sales. He made the call during an interactive session organised by the Agency, held at the LCCI, Conference & Exhibition Centre, Alausa, Ikeja, in continuation of its public enlightenment efforts to educate stakeholders on LASCOPA’s mandates and ethical conduct. Solebo said the forum was also designed to discuss and educate operators on modern trends in the management of supermarkets and grocery stores, with a view to raising the level of awareness among store owners on their roles in ensuring that consumers in Lagos get value for money on all goods and services purchased. -Advertisement- The General Manager noted that the State Government is concerned about reducing the several anti-consumer friendly issues prevalent in the sector as well as its attendant effects on the image of the Agency and the present administration in Lagos State. He maintained that the sensitisation parley was organised as a result of the need to address the increasing concerns raised by the citizenry on infringement of rights by owners and operators of supermarkets and grocery stores in Lagos. Describing as worrisome the unwholesome practices by some of the grocery store operators, Solebo decried the health challenges that often emanate from the consumption of expired products, sales of defective and hazardous products and inadequate information on products displayed for sales. He listed other unethical practices to include rubbing off product information, discrepancies between price tags on shelves and the products’ actual amount on the stores’ system and non-display of price tags on products amongst other anti-consumer-friendly problems being perpetrated in the sector. The General Manager also decried the unpleasant experiences often encountered by LASCOPA Monitoring and Enforcement officers while carrying out their routine inspection at supermarkets and grocery stores, saying that the challenges encountered range from the refusal of access into some stores, the harassment and intimidation by store operators and staff, as well as the refusal by business owners to allow officers of the Agency take samples of expired product away as evidence. POLL On the responsibilities expected from the operators, Solebo underscored the need for them to always undertake due diligence in checking goods or products bought or supplied to them by manufacturers to avoid embarrassment or contravening the law as provided under the Consumer Protection Agency Law of Lagos State and other regulations. He further reminded the participants of the government’s commitment to ensure the eradication of hazardous and substandard goods from the State, emphasising that government has zero-tolerance and frowns at unethical, unfair trade practices and unscrupulous exploitation that undermines consumer confidence in purchasing goods and services. He disclosed that offenders or violators of the stipulated guidelines would be penalised or fined the sum of #500,000 for first-time offenders or a jail term of three months, while a second-time offender risks payment of the sum of #750,000 or a jail term of six months. While urging the participants to be professional in the conduct of their businesses, Solebo admonished operators to ensure that they comply with the provisions and guidelines put in place for the operational processes and procedures for their companies. In his response, General Manager, Addide Supermarket, Mr. Ade Adeshina, appreciated LASCOPA for putting the programme together to raise the consciousness of operators of supermarket businesses on proper business conduct. He, however, appealed to the Agency to further enlarge the forum by calling for the participation of other MDAs who also carry out official monitoring and enforcement duties so that the responsibilities of all the agencies can be clearly defined and streamlined. Representatives of supermarkets and grocery store operators in attendance include Shoprite, Grand Square, Addas Mall, Spar Nigeria, Addide, Prince Ebeano & Co, Jendol, Shop City, B.G. Mart and DePrince Supermarket. Others are Old English, Twins Faja supermarket, Prime Mart, Sorite Superstores, Osata Supermarket, Goodiss Superstore, Flomart Supermarket, Atikide Mart and Glory of God Supermarket among others.