The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, has assured members of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers that the commission is poised to conduct a free, fair and credible election on June 18, 2022, where votes would count. Professor Yakubu, who gave this assurance during an interface with the Traditional Rulers in Ado-Ekiti also hinted that the pending byelection into the vacant Ekiti East House of Asembly I would be held along with the Governorship election on June 18. The INEC boss while commending the traditional institutions for the relative peaceful political climate urged them not to relent in sustaining peace before ,during and after the poll. -Advertisement- He said the commission will be neutral and stand by the obligatory mission of ensuring that no extraneous interferences are allowed to affect the credibility of the poll adversely. “I want to appeal to all voters in Ekiti that their votes will count. We would still return to interact with other critical stakeholders on how to have a peaceful election in Ekiti. The atmosphere now for the conduct of the 2022 election is so calm, unlike what we had in 2018. “I asked myself what has changed, I was told the royal fathers had been working hard to ensure that the situation is calm and I could see it is really very calm. “In this election, there will be two ballot boxes in Ekiti East constituency 1, because they will elect their assembly representative together with the governor. There will be 16 political parties for the governorship election, but only two for the bye election in Ekiti East”. Yakubu said: “The number of registered voters in Ekiti is  989, 202. We expect the stake to go higher because people are still collecting their PVCs. Let me say that we are ready for the election. Our staff are being trained”. POLL Yakubu added that the Bimodal Voters Authentication System (BVAS) invention had faced the use of righting-prone Incidence Forms and the malfunctioning Smart Card readers, for the conduct of elections. “The BVAS had been introduced and with this,  smart card readers had been fully retired. As far as technology is concerned, there will be a seamless and fantastic election in Ekiti. There was a mock election here on Monday across the state and the machine worked 100 per cent. “Where the machine is unable to get the fingerprints, we will get the facial appearance of the voter. There won’t be an incidence form, we have abolished the incidence form as well. INEC is not a political party. We don’t have a candidate and all we want is to leave who leads Ekiti in the hands of the citizens and that we shall achieve. “So, we appeal to our traditional rulers to ensure peace. The atmosphere is peaceful and we want it to remain until the election is concluded. I assure you that the election will be credible, don’t doubt the neutrality of INEC”, he said The Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Gabriel Adejumo, praised INEC for the voter registration exercise it had undertaken in the state, saying this would help in widening citizens’ participation in the exercise.