AKURE – As Ondo State begins to experience low criminal activities, the Commander of Amotekun Corps, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye has disclosed that the success was recorded through inter-border fight against criminals. He said the Amotekun Corps, with all security agencies in Ondo State in collaboration with security agencies in Kogi and Edo states embarked on full force combat against criminals who operated in the border towns. The Amotekun Corps Commander stated that the military formations in the states as well as other security agencies worked hand-in-hand to make the states become uncomfortable for criminals. -Advertisement- According to him, “On the clean-up operation, the military in Kogi State partnered with the 32 Artillery Brigade in Akure and men of Amotekun Corps as well as the local hunters of all the villages around the boarder towns and, to a very large extent, we were able to drive these criminals away. “We observed that these criminals come to Ondo State, strike and move back to Kogi State. The same thing also happen around Ose Local Government where they strike and move to Edo State through the river. “These criminals always take advantage of the fact that there are no Amotekun in Kogi and Edo, but that has since seized now as the security agencies in these two neighboring states are collaborating with us .The last operation we did, a couple of days ago, we were able to engage these criminals.” The Amotekun Corps Commander, who is also the Security adviser to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu gave a breakdown of criminal activities in the state in the last 10 months, saying crime rate has nosedived in the state. He said: “Across the board, we recorded very low criminal activities in the state. That is not to say that there were not pockets of violence here and there. Very recently, in collaboration with the military, we launched a massive atteck on kidnappers in the four local governments in Akoko, Ose and Owo local governments and I must tell you that it actually yielded a good result. POLL “Comparatively, the last five months of last year and the first five months of this year, we have a very sharp decrease in the number of suspects arrested. “Last year, on maintenance of law and order in the line of violators of open grazing law alone, we arrested close to 4,000, but this year, we have not arrested up to 1,000. “Also, comparatively too, virtually all forms of criminal activities are on the decline in the state. Unlike before when kidnapping was everyday issue, it is no longer as rampant as it was within the metropolis and even at the border towns. It is now becoming a thing of past. “These are part of landmarks and achievements of the Ondo State Security Network Agency. You will recall that we started the year on a very good note, in the sense that December period is usually characterised by various criminal activities, but last December was eventfully peaceful until we had first major carnage in Ose local government.” In spite of the success recorded, the Amotekun Corps Commander disclosed that 12 control points within and outside the metropolis have been activated to improve on the response to emergency time lag of the formation. He said with the 12 control points, it would become fast for men of Amotekun to respond to emergency alert and get to the scene of the crime within the shortest time.