Obong Victor Attah, former Governor of Akwa Ibom State and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in this interview on Arise Television talks about zoning of the presidential ticket in his party, why the parliamentary system of government is best suitable for the country, among other issues. JOY ANIGBOGU brings the excerpts: What is your take on the decision of your party to throw the Presidential ticket open? We in the South have said that we will not support any party that doesn’t zone its presidency to the south and we stand by that, and now that they have thrown the ticket open, let us see who emerges. In whatever way if a southern candidate emerges we will be quite happy to support one of those that can lead this country properly. This zoning thing is a product of an unfortunate system that we run. There wasn’t any zoning when Tafawa Balewa became the Prime Minister of Nigeria. It was a product of an arrangement and agreement. He didn’t have anything close to the majority of seats in the Assembly at that time. It was NCNC that was leading, followed by the Action Group led by Chief Obafemi Awolowo. His party came a distant third, but he became the Prime Minister, and there was no zoning. So, these are controversies that came up because of a dysfunctional system that we adopted in Nigeria. What we need is a complete system change and if we have that, some of these controversies will just go away. -Advertisement- How will the system change be effected before the election or after the election? There is nothing anybody can do before the election. We want to advise, counsel and perhaps warn the next Assembly that everybody has agreed that Nigeria cannot continue as it is now. When they come in they should come with a completely different mindset. They are going to change the circumstances of Nigeria and the change must be a complete and total change of system. If we don’t have a complete system change, the system could break down. We will wait and see who will emerge from the different parties and we will take it from there. Is it that the south has been outplayed in all of these? I don’t know what that means because there are some prominent Igbo people marching on the streets of the South-East states, supporting northern candidates. There are prominent southerners who are rooting for northerners, so who are outplaying who? There is no clear line of play. There are no rules which are the reason we say that Nigeria is dysfunctional and it has to be changed. In the All Progressives Congress (APC), for example you have prominent northerners aspiring, the Senate President has emerged and some other northern aspirants. The APC hasn’t said anything about zoning and many people are saying that the body language might tilt to the north if PDP fields a northern candidate. PDP said they were going to zone to the south and sometime last year the southern governors agreed that power should shift to the south but all of a sudden your party is keeping it open, people believe it’s an indication to zone power to the north. Where is the south in all of this? POLL I will ask you a question, who is sponsoring Lawan for the presidency? A very prominent Igbo Senator is sponsoring him, which is why you cannot say that the south has been outplayed or the north has been outplayed. There are just no rules in the system that we have now. If at worst we should have repeated what we had before. Tafawa Balewa did not emerge by way of zoning but by negotiation and arrangement, threw up the person that they saw would be best to lead Nigeria. We need to go back to that system. Two of your successors in Akwa Ibom State have shown interest in becoming President, Governor Udom Emmanuel says he has been responding to calls by people who said that he is the proper person to lead Nigeria; also Senator Godswill Akpabio is interested, what do you think about their ambitions? I have to keep repeating myself about this issue of system, look at the situation where somebody like Udom Emmanuel, Godswill Akpabio, Nyesom Wike from the south and all the other spirants from the south-west, south-east and the north, should they go into the National Assembly, do you know how vibrant that Assembly will be. Do you know what volume of ideas will come out to develop Nigeria from such an Assembly? Today because a winner takes all syndromes, only one of these governors will be president and the others will just fade away. If we had a parliamentary system, all of them would be in the parliament heading various Ministries, developing Nigeria, doing something good for Nigeria. It is the reason that I have said that we are wasting our talent by creating a situation where only one person will emerge and when that person emerges he will become a dictatorial ruler. It is very unfortunate and Nigeria must see and agree that it must change. Can you comment on their capacities? How do you judge somebody’s capacity before he gets into the position? I mean based on their performance, what are your thoughts? There are so many people today saying that they are lamenting that they voted for President Muhammadu Buhari, because they had a different concept of the Buhari that they voted for, his capacity, integrity, etcetera. Today, they are disappointed, and that was why I asked you the question, how do you judge capacity before someone gets into a position? Some aspirants have been saying that they have been governors’ for eight years and did so much in their states. Almost all the former governors have been saying that, including the incumbent governors, which is why I asked the question, what is your view? We are not blind. We can say that he said that he did this, but we know that he did not. We can judge to a certain extent, but given a different level of performance you can’t know until the person gets there. If you want me to talk about my current governor, Emmanuel Udom, I believe that he can make a very good president for the country. Why do you have that belief? It is because of his antecedents and what he has done in Akwa Ibom State and because of his background. I can judge his competence. You kept saying a winner takes it all, is it not the same in every part of the world? There must always be a leader in a good situation, and that leader must not become a total dictator or somebody that you cannot say anything bad about except in whispers. Look at what happened in Britain. A Prime Minister was sent away because it didn’t seem he was performing well, and he went. Look at what happened in America, a President was impeached but he didn’t have to leave office because the Senate didn’t approve. Let me be very specific now, the presidential system is not suitable for Nigerians. The parliamentary system will be much better. There will always be a leader but Tafawa Balewa did not go there to do what he wanted to do. He didn’t decide what he was going to do. He went there because as a compromise, and as an arrangement he was going to do the will of the people who put him there and those people were truly elected from their communities. Today, this one is buying a form to contest for president because the President asked him to buy a form and that one is buying a form because a group of people bought a form for him. Nobody considered the electorate, so are the people represented in that kind of parliament? If you have a parliamentary system, come to my community and ask me to bring out who I want to represent us and we will all consult and bring him out, that is the beauty of the parliamentary system. All this issue of N100 billion for nomination form doesn’t happen. Being a strong advocate of restructuring and you are recommending the parliamentary system, will the parliamentary system address all the issues that you talked about in restructuring? Toda, we are trying to bring certain aspects of restructuring through the piecemeal, back door or whatever you want to call it. We will say today that we should go back to state police, we will run this and that, they are all part of restructuring, why not restructure comprehensively? Do you think that the political will is there to do that? No, I don’t think so. Some people said that it is the bad elements that spoiled PDP and have now gone over spoiling APC, that is not the point that I am making, the point that I am making is that we are pleading with the next Assembly that must come, to come with a different mindset. If they come with the previous mindset, they will face a public that is not prepared to tolerate them. They must agree to change the system and get us a system that must work, a system that will be inclusive, a system where people will not be talking of marginalization and polarization.