Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has thrown his weight behind the presidential ambition of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Mr Yahaya stated this when Osinbajo paid homage to the Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu-Abubakar, on Monday in Gombe. Mr. Osinbajo was in Gombe to interact with All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in the state ahead of the party’s presidential primaries. -Advertisement- The governor said that Osinbajo has the capacity to deliver good governance to Nigerians, adding that he was optimistic as the next president Nigeria would reach the next level of governance to improve citizens’ wellbeing. “We are patriotic, we want this country to progress and get to the next level we want to attain. “I can boldly say it, these people you see in traditional regalia, and on the government side, and the crowd outside are really committed to seeing you actualize this ambition by becoming the next president of Nigeria by God’s grace. “Gombe is a home to the VP for so many reasons; looking at the dynamics and the place, it is you that the president cap fits, squarely nobody can doubt that,” he said. In his remark, Mr. Osinbajo said he was at the palace to pay respect to the emir. POLL “We are not allowed to play politics in the palace otherwise I would have made a long speech, I only want to let you know that on April 11, I declared my intention to join the presidential race,” he said. The VP said with the seven years’ experience he garnered under President Muhammadu Buhari, he was now exposed to lead the country in 2023. He said that serving under a transparent leader like President Buhari, it was an asset he would leverage to give Nigerians good leadership. “I believe with the experience that God gave me in that period will be useful if God helps me and enables me to become the president,” he said. In his response, Shehu-Abubakar described Osinbajo as part of the successes recorded by President Buhari’s administration in the country. ”Your intervention in the area of economic policy had impacted in the lives of so many Nigerians. “Your vast experience and good attributes; you have maintained a track record, we are studying your humility and grace, we appreciate you and we pray for more success in all your endeavors,” the royal father said.