LAGOS – Seventy-seven members of the recently disengaged 2021 Batch ‘A’ Stream II Corps Members that served in Ogun State and found guilty of one offence or the other have been given extension of service. The Ogun State Coordinator of the scheme, Dr. Belinda Faniyi, disclosed this during the just concluded Passing-Out-Parade which was held at the Permanent Orientation camp in Sagamu. Besides, Dr. Belinda added that the affected corps members of the 4,289 that passed out, would have their Certificate of National Service withheld until they serve their punishments accordingly. -Advertisement- The Corps Members were reprimanded for various offences ranging from absenteeism, fraud to abandonment, among others infractions that contravened the regulations guiding the service year. Those on extension of service would be paid at the end of the extension. Those on remobilisation will refund all allowance collected and then they would be paid monthly in the period of remobilisation. The 4,289 Corps Members were presented their discharge certificates. Speaking further, Faniyi who described the ceremony as unique commended the ex-corps members for completing the four phases of the National Service Year programme of orientation, primary assignment, CDS and passing-out-parade, saying they have diligently and selflessly served their fatherland in the state. POLL Faniyi announced that in the tradition of the scheme in recognising excellence, some Corps Members who recorded outstanding performance during their service year were rewarded with Certificates of Commendation for their efforts. She lauded the commitment of Governor Dapo Abiodun’s sustained support for the NYSC in Ogun State. Governor Dapo Abiodun, represented by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Dr. Kehinde Oluwadare, congratulated the management and staff of the NYSC for the success of turning out another set of Corps Members who are passing out after the successful completion of their National Service. “Dear Compatriots, I have been reliably informed that many of you have truly integrated yourself with the good people of Ogun State and distinguished yourself as corps members. Your invaluable contributions in diverse fields of human endeavour such as Education, Agriculture, Technology, Health Care, Engineering and numerous others, are worthy of commendation. “Those of you who served in the rural areas would have discovered the realities of rural life. That experience is a necessary part of your training for greater challenges ahead. And, it is my earnest belief that you have all, without exception, immensely benefited from the scheme. It is also my belief that you have all imbibed the noble and lofty ideals of the National Youth Service Corps Scheme,” the governor added. Expressing confidence that the discharged corps members have imbibed the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme, the governor charged them to meaningfully utilise the experiences for future achievements. He added, “I hope that you will allow the experiences garnered to guide your perception of life and general disposition. “It is a fact that life out there is challenging, even more than ever before. As you disengage from active National Service today, I urge you to get yourselves involved in productive activities. Do not limit yourselves to being job seekers. You should strive more to be employers of labour. “Take advantage of the present initiative of the NYSC Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) to create employment opportunities for yourselves and others who may be less endowed and help nurture the economy.”