Nigeria is dying…and it is be­ing killed by many factors. An obvious one is the insur­gency which has blanketed Nigeria for years now. It began with the Boko Haram terrorism; a dastardly, senseless and totally misguided war against Nigeria by a group of people who have refused to become ashamed of the evil they have done in God’s name. Yes, they claim to be killing in God’s name. While the government megaphones have been singing aloud that Boko Haram has been degraded, the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai has recently been sing­ing another song; that of alarm, that Boko Haram elements have moved from their original base in the Sam­bisa Forest and have claimed some ground near the middle of Nigeria, in Kaduna state. Unfortunately, Boko Haram is not the only army that has picked up arms against Nigeria. The group named bandits have also been gaining ground in the country. The bandits have been spreading their influence through Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna and Niger states, and are threatening to impose a base on Abuja – if they have not al­ready done so by now. -Advertisement- El-Rufai said Ansaru and Boko Haram fighters have been detected in two local government areas and said the terror groups have been making attempts to recruit residents of those areas. According to a Voice of America report,” Authorities also said more than 360 people, including 45 females, were killed in the state between Janu­ary and March by armed groups. They said more than 1,300 people were kid­napped. The first great concern is the emer­gency of Boko Haram enclave as well as the activities of Ansaru, particular­ly in Birnin Gwari and Chikun local governments,” El-Rufai said. “The ter­rorists were making comments like the forests in Kaduna are even better that the ones on Sambisa and so they should all relocate here.” Kaduna has serious reasons for con­cern: “Authorities also said they’re con­sidering relocating three communities — Rijana, Kateri and Akilibu — over concerns that they may be harboring informants working for gangs”, the VOA report said. Yet, security agencies pretend that the Boko Haram group has been de­graded. POLL Another group, totally unstudied and so not yet understood, is made up by the killer herders. They know no boundaries. So, they are everywhere. And yet they are really nowhere. They muster themselves together like spirits or well-imbedded groups in the towns and villages where they inter-mingle with the local population, and when most probably summoned by a yet un­identified controlling nucleus, they go into a theater of operation, and leave sorrow, tears and blood behind. Yet, Insurgency is far from my mind today! Yes, there are several reasons that can cause a country to die and so cease to exist. The easiest way for that to hap­pen is if a country is divided into dif­ferent components. Those components would simply choose new names. A country can also be conquered and is absorbed into another country. Anyone would be right to suggest that Nigeria is being killed by the dis­eases that are plucking off Nigerians at a fast rate as the health-care delivery system is still near that of the stone age – though Nigeria supplies medical doc­tors and nurses to even the developed countries. Death from diseases? Yes, and the worst part of the health care delivery crisis is the scandalous decimation of innocent Nigerian children by diseas­es that are not lethal in other places. Just ask the question “Where in the world are children dying”? The answer includes Nigeria. Many reports say that “5.4 million children under five years old died in 2017. The fact that in those countries with the best health, child mortality rates are 10-times lower than the glob­al average suggests that most of these child deaths are preventable”. In India, the number of child deaths fell from 3.4 million to one million; In China it fell nine-fold from 1.4 million to less than 160,000; In Bangladesh more than five-fold from over 500,000 to 100,000; In Ethiopia from 439,000 to 189,000; And in Brazil from 235,000 to 43,000.2 But, in Nigeria? It was as high as 714,000. Even in China with a popu­lation of over a billion people, only 156,000 children died. Ask about countries where children are most likely to die and this list will crop up; Somalia, Chad, Central Afri­can Republic, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, and Mali. Between 1990 and 2017 the number of children dying each year fell by 7.2 million. But then, Nigeria has for long ceased to be part of any good news that has cheered the globe. Still, the health care system is not the issue I’m concerned about today. In other parts of the world, gov­ernments use policies to bring about certain outcomes that shape the so­cio-politico-economy. As we all know, sometimes the results are wholesome and so bring about progress and devel­opment. But in Nigeria, the results are often pernicious and ruinous. And that brings us to today’s issue; irregular electricity supply. Do our leaders know that as long as low and erratic electricity supply is what Nigerians get on daily basis then Nigeria is being asphyxiated, yes suf­focated, to death just like a being that is denied breathable? Last Wednesday (May 18th,) I left the office and rushed to the Sky Me­morial complex, an Abuja small busi­ness beehive by 8;30 PM, to photocopy certain things but there was little or no life there. I was alarmed; was there a riot in that part of the heart of the city? No, was the answer. The explana­tion for the inactivity I witnessed there was simply that there was no electric­ity with which to power the array of photo-copier machines that dotted the place. The small-scale business men and women had been managing on electricity-generating sets all day and had closed shop that early. I was shocked because the Sky Me­morial almost never slept in the early 2000s. But in the 2020s, it is adapting to a new life, no not life, but to a slow death. That was when I remembered what I was also going through. I was supervising a large-scale print job and I had had to depend on a diesel-guzzling 500KVA mammoth beast for electric­ity simply because the power from the national grid was not there for the company. The newsprint cost has dou­bled from last year’s rate. So, too, the cost of diesel. I thought of the average mom and pop business owners, and my heart wept for Nigeria. Nigeria is killing Nigerian business and so Moth­er Nigeria herself is dying. Come May 29, next year, and the Mohammadu Buhari administration will end. That would mean another eighth years fluffed away without any improvement in electricity supply in the country. This same problem has de­fied all the administrations since 1999 or even since 1976 – since then Nigeria has seen no improvement beyond the shameful 3, 000 megawatts supply for the entire country. There is this Vanguard newspaper report on Nigeria: ELECTRICITY: “How poor power supply affects small-scale businesses”. THERE are indications that inade­quate and unstable power supply may have adversely affected small-scale businesses, thus creating more unem­ployment and poverty in Nigeria. A survey conducted by Vanguard in Lagos and its environs showed that while many small-scale businesses generate private electricity at higher cost to remain in business, others have been compelled to close shops. Also speaking, Mr. Uche Donald, a trader in Festac Extension, said: “We get less than nine hours daily and an average bill per month varies from N5, 000 to N7, 000. Also, I spend an average of N1, 500 daily to power my genera­tor.” For Bose Alabi, a boutique owner at Jakande estate, “I hardly consume power for three hours daily, and it is not helping my business. I run a cold room as well, whereby power supply is needed 24 hours every day, but due to the insufficient power supply, I have to run my generator for 24 hours daily.” She added that her consumption of diesel leads to a great loss in her busi­ness, saying an average of N5, 000 daily is spent on alternative power supply to keep her refrigerator running to fore­stall her goods from perishing”. In another report, “Small Busi­nesses in Nigeria Face Downtime Amid Fuel, Electricity Shortages” published on March 18, 2022, Nigeri­ans poured out the anguish of their souls: “Weeks of scarce fuel coupled with a failing national electricity grid are hurting countless small businesses across Nigeria. Some businesses have temporarily shut down, while others reduced hours to cope with the energy shortage. In January, Toochukwu Ohatu started a tailoring business to supple­ment her laundry business and make some extra cash. But barely three weeks after she set up, the business was almost grounded by the electricity issues affecting mil­lions of Nigerians. Without power, there’s no way to run a sewing machine. “It’s just impossible to work and then as a new mom, everything,” she said. “I mean starting my tailoring business in January was a major leap for me and then we’re struck with the fuel scarcity, no power supply.” The electricity supply was inter­rupted some two weeks ago when the national power grid malfunctioned due to glitches in the operating system. Ohatu said she barely has one hour of electricity a day and it’s affecting her productivity and income. Authorities blame the fuel scarcity on the recall in January of about 170 million liters of tainted fuel imported from Europe. In February, the govern­ment announced it has released one billion liters of fuel from the national reserve to normalize distribution. But amid a worldwide rise in oil and gas prices, the situation has dragged on and is affecting the over­all economy. This week, Nigeria’s Statistics Bureau said the country’s annual inflation rate has increased to 15.7 percent. “It’s been a tussle, it’s almost be­coming a new normal,” said Abuja resident and driver Mohammed Ene­si. “Because we’re so resilient, we feel we can adapt.” Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil pro­ducer but struggles to meet its energy needs. Only about 47 percent of Nigeri­ans have access to electricity when it is available, according to World Bank estimates. Nigerian authorities in 2020 signed an electricity deal with German counterparts to improve the supply. But analysts say the energy short­age is impacting citizens negatively. “Somehow we’ve not been able to get the dynamics right,” said analyst Rotimi Olawale. “To be very fair and honest, in the last couple of years we have not witnessed this fuel scarcity that we’re seeing now. The initial explanation they gave to us I don’t think it holds water anymore. It puts a lot of pressure on people.” This week, Nigeria’s president, Mu­hammadu Buhari, promised citizens that the fuel and electricity issues will soon be over”. Nigerians have been hearing such promises for decades. Unfortunately, the President gave no information about the new refineries that would enhance petrol supply in the country or the new power plants that should increase the electricity generated and transmitted in Nigeria. So, which policies did Buhari in­troduce in Nigeria that gave him the confidence to make such promises? Promises are made to be kept – es­pecially when they are made by the President of a country to his fellow countrymen and women.