The Finnish Immigration Service has revealed that the country has granted temporary protection to 13,134 Ukrainian nationals since the beginning of the war. According to the Finnish authorities, a total of 20,380 applications for temporary have been submitted in Finland by Ukrainians. Taking into account the decisions that have been made until April 27, it means that 70 per cent of those who have submitted an application have already been granted temporary protection, SchengenVisaInfo.com reports. “This week, we will be able to make decisions regarding all the applications for temporary protection that do not include incomplete information, such as a missing photograph,” Director of the Asylum Unit, Antti Lehtinen, said. -Advertisement- The Immigration Service of Finland explains that almost all applicants are granted temporary protection. Only a small share of applicants who have fled Ukraine have withdrawn their applications. The number of applications made for temporary protection has decreased significantly in the last month. Currently, the Finnish border authorities register around 100 to 300 temporary protection applications per day. On the other hand, in March, the number of applications was four times higher. The Finnish authorities revealed that in mid-March, they received over 1,200 applications per day. In order to accelerate the processing of applications for temporary protection Finland has started for the first time to use automation in matters of protection. “This is the first time we’ve used automation in matters of protection. We’ve been able to use the expertise and functions gained from the other residence permit types in the automatisation, and this translates to considerably faster processing times,” the statement of Lehtinen reads. POLL Partial automation has also been previously used by the Finnish Immigration Service. It has been disclosed that the Finnish Immigration Service decided to use partial automation in its decision-making processes since the current legislation does not enable fully automated decision-making. The partial automation that Finland currently uses checks whether the criteria for issuing a permit are fulfilled and automatically generates a decision proposal to be reviewed and then confirmed by a processor. Persons who have fled Ukraine must contact the border authorities or the police to apply for temporary protection. After the application is made, the Finnish Immigration Service grants a residence permit. Apart from nationals of Ukraine, the Finnish authorities have explained that nationals of other countries who have been legally residing in Ukraine and who fled the country due to the war can also apply for protection.