Forum of Ebonyi Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Assembly Aspirants has called on the National Working Committee to save the Party from implosion in Ebonyi State. In a press statement issued on Thursday, titled “Urgent Need To Rescue Ebonyi PDP, call for an urgent intervention of the NWC “, which was signed by the forum’s Chairman, Mr Steve Roderick Eze and the Secretary, Barrister Ugbor Moses, said, “recent events with regards to the PDP in Ebonyi State suggests that the NWC is either bent on killing the PDP in Ebonyi or invariably doing a hatchet man’s job for the enemies of the PDP in Ebonyi State and the Southeast zone at large.” The forum warned that any action that could cause the party not to field candidates in the state would not only kill the party in the state but confirm the notion that the PDP was out to sideline the Southeast in its fold. -Advertisement- The statement reads in part, “We the aspirants for Ebonyi State House of Assembly on the platform of our great party, The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have keenly observed the turn of events in Ebonyi State PDP over the past 3 weeks and we are gravely concerned for our dear party and our ambitions. “We are concerned over the ugly uncertainty we face every day in Ebonyi State PDP, it has become URGENT that we speak out to our National Party Leaders to intervene and save the party from apparent impending IMPLOSION of the PDP in Ebonyi State. “We are, therefore, particularly appealing to NWC to quickly set matters straight as it concerns the case of 3-man ad-hoc delegates and primary elections in Ebonyi State. “It cannot be overemphasised that the PDP is the dominant, most viable and leading party in Ebonyi State and any action that causes the party not to field candidates in the state will not only kill the party in the state but confirm the notion that the PDP is out to sideline the Southeast in its fold. “We demand that the NWC of the PDP save the party in Ebonyi State and the Southeast by intervening in current crises that have thrown millions of PDP faithful in Ebonyi State into confusion, despair and uncertainty. POLL “We demand that the NWC do the needful and take active steps to set aside major impediments and ensure primary elections are conducted in Ebonyi State in a free and fair manner before the June 3rd deadline in line with extant electoral laws. “We alert our teeming members in the state and Nigerians at large to hold the PDP National Working Committee of the PDP responsible should Ebonyi State fail to field Candidates for various positions in the 2023 general elections.”