AKURE – Cocoa farmers in Ofosu Com­munity in Idanre Local Gov­ernment of Ondo State on Monday blocked the Lagos/ Benin Expressway, protesting alleged sales of their farmland to a Chinese company by the state government. The traffic flow was ob­structed by the protesters, who carried placards with different inscriptions expressing their grievances against the alleged move by the state government. The inscriptions on their placards including “Don’t Give Our Land to Mindless Capital­ists,” “No Farmers, No Nation. Please Don’t Take our Farms,” “Respect Our Right to Liveli­hood,” “We Want To Remain Farmers and Not Armed Robbers,” “Have Mercy On Us. Don’t Take Our Farms,” among others showed the grievances and demands of the protesters. -Advertisement- Addressing newsmen during the protest, a tradi­tional chief in the community, Chief Kazeem Akinrimisi, the Sasare of Ofosu, disclosed that the protesting farmers had been paying their levies to the state government for farming on the government forest re­serve without defaulting. He said he had been farm­ing on the reserve for over 20 years, adding that the state government had captured the biometrics of all farmers working in the forest reserve. Chief Akinrimisi empha­sised that all farmers working in the reserve had been adher­ing to all government’s direc­tives since 2019. According to him, in 2021, he paid N6 million to state in­ternal revenue agency as dues for farming in the reserved forest. He, therefore, pleaded with the state government to allow farmers who had been work­ing in the forest to acquire the land instead of selling it expa­triates. POLL Chief Akinrimisi disclosed that the farmers occupied 74 camps in Ofosu Community sparing on over 20,000 acres. Another farmer, Elder Eze­kiel Otatunji, an octogenarian, appealed to the state govern­ment to consider the means of livelihood of the farmers. He said, “I just want to ap­peal to the state government to consider our survival. For instance, I have been working in the forests reserve for over 20 years and paid N1.2 million as dues to the state internal revenue. “We have cocoa plantations inside the reserve, which is a source of foreign exchange for our country. “We are all shocked when we got wind of government’s decision to sell the land to ex­patriates. “So, we are appealing to our governor, Arakunrin Olu­warotimi Akeredolu, to allow us continue with the payment arrangement with the state internal revenue.”