P/Harcourt – The former Nigerian Vice President and a frontline presidential aspirant of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has come under severe criticism by a human rights group for not speaking up on the continuous incarceration of the Rivers state PDP governorship aspirant, Hon Farah Dagogo by the state government. The rights group, Renaissance for Peace and Empowerment Initiative, REPEI, in a statement in Port Harcourt, Rivers state on Monday slammed the former Vice President for coming to Port Harcourt on Saturday without a mention of Farah Dagogo, “his political protégé”. Atiku was in the state to meet with the PDP delegates and solicit support in the forthcoming presidential primary. He was shielded by his heavily armed security details from answering questions from the press. -Advertisement- It will be called that Farah was carried on a stretcher by four policemen to the state High Court on Friday and later remanded in custody till May 16. This development sparked confusion among many after the Federal High Court had earlier granted the lawmaker bail last Thursday. The spokesman of the group, Comrade Solomon Lenu in a statement said “Alhaji Atiku Abubarkar came to Port Harcourt on Saturday and left without the slightest mention of the name of his protégé who is being incarcerated for associating with him. The assumption is that Dr. Farah Dagogo is expendable in Atiku’s political chess game, and his eyes are only fixated on his end goal and every other thing or persons can burn in Wike’s hell”. Comrade Lenu therefore called on eminent Rivers men and women to rise up and save Hon Farah Dagogo who represents Bonny/Degema federal constituency in the House of Representatives from further harassment by the police even when it is obvious that his health is fast failing. “We must all condemn the arbitrary use of the instrumentality of state (police and the Judiciary) by those in charge as seen in this case, because evil knows no tribe or demography. Evil is evil and until we see it as such, we may not find the reason to come together to defeat this full blown tyranny that has kept one of us in captivity for which he may not be the last”, he said. The activist called on the state Governor, Nyesom Wike and the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka to respect the ruling of the Federal High Court that granted Dagogo bail so that he could take care of his health and rightly participate in the ongoing political process. POLL Lenu decried the draconian posture of the state government, adding that “today in Rivers state, liberty of the people has been seized, governance participation is restricted, Journalists out of fear can’t report what they see and when they attempt to do so, they are beaten black and blue by uniform men on the instructions of the government. “Everyone has been silenced, the monarchs have been caged, opposition political parties are kept on watch-list and threatened. It is at this point that the call for support for Dr Farah Dagogo has become a clarion one, because he has shown uncommon courage to challenge his fears and liberate himself and Rivers people by extension”, he said.