TotalEnergies and partners have commissioned projects in Borno, Benue, Kaduna, Gombe, Delta and Anambra States as part of its batch four Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects. The projects range from a fully equipped solar-powered science laboratory, water treatment plants, solar-powered ICT centres and a borehole. The company in a statement,saud while the Federal Government Girls College, Gboko, Benue state received a fully equipped solar-powered science laboratory, Nawfia community in Anambra state got two solar-powered borehole and a water treatment plant. -Advertisement- According to the company,the borehole with treatment plant is solar-powered, comprising Grundfos submersible pumps, powered directly by solar panels via solar charge controllers as power source as well as containerised aeration tank which ensures the protection of both treatment plant and the quality of water from the borehole. It has a capacity of 40,000 litres of treated water in four 10,000 liters GPee tanks with eight dispensing points. It also includes two functional dispensable units. The first unit is situated inside the school premises, while the second unit is situated outside to serve the surrounding communities. The solar panel and batteries powered facility will ensure constant renewable energy and help to improve the environment through reduction in emission of greenhouse gases. It said a fully equipped solar-powered ICT centre with mini theatre was handed over to the Federal College of Education, Kongo, Zaria, Kaduna State, and the Doma community in Gombe state. The building is a 4-wing structure consisting of administrative and technical offices, 2-60 capacity computer laboratories, an auditorium with rest rooms.The ICT arm has a customized 120 HP computer system with 24 monitors, voltage regulators, computer tables and chairs, wired with coaxial and wireless (D-link router) network facilities, air conditions, and server room. Its power-generating unit consists of solar panels, 35KVA inverter, solar charge controller, batteries, and a 60KVA soundproof generator as back up. The auditorium has a capacity of a 250-seater, inbuilt public address system, 2 projectors screen, in-focus lumens projector, 3500 lumens projector, wireless microphone, air conditioner, surge protector adaptors and accessories. Besides,the Jere community, Borno state, got a solar-powered women development and skills acquisition centre consisting of four training rooms, 15 desktop computers, 34 sewing machines, 400 sitting capacity auditorium, 15KVA generator, staff quarters, catering unit and other facilities. POLL Handing over the projects,Mike Sangster, Managing Director, TotalEnergies Upstream Companies in Nigeria, explained that the gesture is in furtherance of its Corporate Social Responsibility, CSR initiative to positively impact lives of its host communities in Nigeria. According to him, the projects scattered across the country, were borne out of the need to mitigate the gaps in qualitative and technical education, maternal and child health, access to clean water and women and youth empowerment. “The projects are in congruence with the related United Nations Sustainability Development Goals. The locations of these projects have also been very carefully chosen for maximum impact, coming from a need assessment carried out before the deployment. “As already mentioned, the project we are commissioning today is one of the several projects being deployed across the entire country. Unfortunately, because of the Covid-19 pandemic we could not be physically present with you today. However, we have adopted this efficient and effective remote commissioning strategy to ensure delivery of all completed projects. I thank our senior partners, NNPC, and our PSC partners, SAPETRO, PRIME and CNOOC, who have joined us in providing the means, the processes and the resources that enabled us to deploy these local development projects. I also thank our several stakeholders including the State & Local Governments, beneficiary institution and the Project Managers for their support. As we hand over the project to you today, we implore you to ensure its sustainable use to impact on the people positively. The sustainability barometer shall be seen during our Impact Assessment Exercise, when we will come back to check how this project has helped and improved the impact of the hospital and lives of the benefitting community,” he said. Bala M. WUNTI, General Group Manager, National Petroleum Investment Management Services, NAPIMS, said the completion and commissioning of the project was designed to mitigate the hardship faced by the locals especially women and children in the area In obtaining clean and portable water. “In NNPC, our vision for social intervention is to continue to operate in an ethical and sustainable manner and deal with the environment and social impacts occasioned by our activities. We pride ourselves in our slogan “we touch your lives in many positive ways”, hence the approval for the deployment of various CSR projects by our operators across the country for maximum impact. NNPC along with its partners have implemented various projects in the areas of education (building and equipping of schools/ classrooms, laboratories, donation of books, scholarships, Quiz competitions, etc.) skill acquisitions and economic empowerment, healthcare, solar power and other infrastructural intervention projects. “These projects were borne out of the need to mitigate the gaps in Health Care, Quality Education, Water, and Women & Youth Empowerment in line with the relevant Millennium Development Goals (MDG). NNPC and its Partners are socially responsible organisations committed to improving the livelihood of the citizens of our great country, Nigeria. “NNPC will continue to consistently champion the implementation of Sustainable Community Development projects that will positively impact the lives of the citizens of this Country. We are very proud and elated to be commissioning yet another laudable and essential project. We know that this facility will help provide succor to the people for the purpose it is intended,” he said. Luc Vanson, General Manager, Prime 130, said the company was proud to be part of such laudable initiative especially because clean water is an essential commodity. “On behalf of the partners, we are proud to identify with the project as we want to make sure that Nigerians have access to quality education, clean water, and international standard healthcare system,” he said. Last year, a total of 10 projects were commissioned, while nine have been commissioned and handed over so far this year under the batch four project lineups. In 2016, TotalEnergies commenced its robust plan to deploy CSR Infrastructure developments across the country which resulted in a strategy to deliver 84 Infrastructure projects across the 6 geo-political zones in Nigeria. In its 1st Phase, a total of 33 projects were launched in 2017 in the areas of Education, Health, Capacity Building and Access to Water across the country. In its 2nd Phase another 24 projects were launched in 2018 and yet another 27 projects were launched in 2019 in the 3rd Phase. Of these 84 infrastructure projects, over 40 have already been completed and commissioned from the earlier three phases and this year, a total of 14 have been completed and commissioned.