Osita Okechukwu, Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged President Mohammadu Buhari to allow a consensus option to produce the party presidential candidate of Southeast extraction. He cautioned that the use of the direct or indirect primary mode of the primary election would worsen the run as witnessed during the presidential primary of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), where he said the national currency saw massive bashing against the dollar. Okechukwu who is a foundation member of the APC said the president must take action before politicians depreciate the national currency beyond recognition. -Advertisement- In a statement made available to journalists on Sunday in Abuja, Okechukwu decried the dollar rain during the recent Presidential primary of the opposition party held at the National Stadium Abuja. While congratulating the PDP standard-bearer former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Okechukwu noted that the admission of one of the contestants, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen to the obscene use of money in the PDP primary warrants a change of strategy. He said, “Albeit, our sister opposition political party has every constitutional right to elect whoever they want as their flag bearer; the Dollar rain is worrisome as noted by Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, who dubbed it obscenely monetised presidential primary. “Sincerely, I congratulate His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar on his emergence from the opposition party primary. But, as a patriot and stakeholder in the Nigeria project, I am worried by PDP’s induced Dollar Rain, which led to unprecedented depreciation of the Naira.” He, therefore, called on President Buhari to consider the consensus option to be adopted in the APC presidential primary election to save the Naira. POLL He lamented the monumental harm PDP’s Dollar Rain did to the nation’s economy, saying “if that could happen in a party with about 731 delegates, imagine what will happen if APC with about 2, 322 delegates are allowed to indulge in Dollar Rain.” On why he is pushing for consensus instead of direct and indirect modes of the primary election, which are more democratic than consensus, the DG VON said: “All the three are democratic and are in our law books. Please, is it not paradoxical that the governors and ex-governors who oppose consensus had adopted the same consensus and even outright imposition to select their successors? “To me, they have lost the moral high ground to oppose Mr President from adopting such legal mode of the primary election. One’s appeal is that politically correct aspirant should be consensually presented.”