The Minister of Women Affairs Dame Pauline Tallen has declared her interest in the battle For APC Plateau South Senatorial Ticket against Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong. The duo on Saturday declared to run for the same ticket under the Platform of All Progressive Congress in the state. A coalition of women and youth groups from the southern zone of the state bought the APC nomination form for the former deputy governor urging her to run for the seat as their representative in the 2023 general elections. While the Senatorial form was presented to the minister of Women Affairs at her residence in Abuja on Saturday, Governor Lalong on the same day at Shendam mini. Stadium presented with Senatorial form purchased for him by Plateau Legacy group. -Advertisement- The leader of the delegation from Plateau state, Mrs. Felicia Bala said they arrived at the decision to purchase the form for the former deputy governor of the state, based on the antecedents of the minister in ensuring the welfare of the people, especially women and children. Mrs. Bala added that the women and youth contributed their personal resources to purchase the form for the minister without her knowledge as a way of demonstrating their seriousness and belief in the capacity of the Minister, to provide them with quality representation if elected. Similarly, the official presentation of the Plateau Senatorial form to Lalong took place at the Shendam Mini Stadium and was attended by supporters and APC members from the six local government areas comprising the Southern senatorial district as well as others from across the State. Speaking at the event, the state APC Chairman Hon. Rufus Bature said the APC has received a boost with the acceptance of Governor Lalong to offer himself again to serve not only the people of Southern Zone but the entire Plateau State at the National Assembly. In his acceptance speech, Governor Lalong said he was overwhelmed by the show of love and solidarity from the people of the Southern Zone and Plateau Legacy Group who have used their hard-earned resources to purchase nomination/expression of interest form for him. POLL Governor Lalong on his part said he was happy with the growing fortunes and acceptability of the APC in Plateau State over the years from 2015, having gained so much ground, attracted more members, and won more elections despite the propaganda and disinformation by the opposition. The battle line appears to have been drawn between these two gladiators Governor Lalong and Dame Pauline who hails from the same Shendam LGA of Plateau state. Both aspirants hail from the same local government area of Shendam, in southern Plateau, both are Catholics, both belong to the same political party, and both are close to the Presidency. Apparently, while Governor Lalong seems to share some closeness with President Buhari, Dame Tallen on the other hand, is a close confidant of the wife of the president Aisha Buhari. These factors will play significant roles in electing the candidate of the party during the primaries slated for the end of this month. It would be recalled that in 2019, the current Minister for Women Affairs Minister and Social Development had contested the Senatorial primaries of All Progressives Congress, APC, in Plateau South senatorial district. She lost the Primaries to the Late Senator Ignatius Longman, who eventually won the secondary election. Meanwhile, the incumbent Senator representing the zone, Professor Nora Daadut was attacked last Month in the Namu district in Quan Pan and may not likely seek re-election. However, the senatorial party primaries in Plateau APC is to be conducted on May 24, 2022.