Following the speculation that the National Leader and frontline presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is planning to decamp to the Social Domestic Party (SDP), the party has, however, said that there is no automatic ticket for Tinubu and other aspirants who may be willing to contest for elective positions on the party’s platform. The party who stated this at a press conference by its Acting National Chairman, Chief Supo Shonibare said, nonetheless, the party would provide succour for aggrieved aspirants from other parties. Shonibare said while those who felt cheated in other political parties could come and join the SDP to pursue their political ambitions in 2023, they should be ready to submit themselves to stringent conditions. -Advertisement- “On the issue of Asiwaju Tinubu, the last time I checked, he was not a member of the SDP. I checked on the list because the membership list of our party as INEC has required, has already been submitted by our state chapters to us in Abuja. “His name is not among those who are members of our party in Lagos State. That’s all I can say, he’s not a member of SDP,” he said. He, however, said that Tinubu or any other aspirants from other registered political parties interested to join the party were welcome, “Yes, we welcome anyone who felt cheated by other political parties but must be consistent with integrity. “If he (Tinubu) comes, it won’t be automatic, what we would emphasise is consistency with integrity within the public officer. “Also anyone who is controversial, rated low or with baggage, who doesn’t have integrity will not be allowed. SDP leadership does not want the party to be an opportunistic vehicle,” he said. POLL Shonibare maintained that the party would only give consideration to individuals cheated by his party but not to anyone in controversial circumstances “In instances where we’ve seen great injustices to an individual, who we feel is not coming to us with baggage, yes that individual will be welcome to SDP. “But we won’t welcome anyone who we feel has a pending court case. We won’t welcome anyone that has been convicted, even if the person is actually now appealing that conviction. “So we will try to ensure that those who we will welcome into our party, are men and women of integrity, making SDP be a succour for those who have been wrongly dealt with in their political parties. “Provided those who are coming themselves have displayed integrity and honour in the way and manner they themselves have conducted themselves in government,” he said. (NAN)