AYO BADA The quiet town of Ikorodu in Lagos State came alive on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, when it received the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria (MCN), His Eminence Dr. Samuel Kanu-Uche, as part of the programme to mark his exit as the head of the church after a glorious service. The one-day event kicked off at the palace of the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Adewale Shotobi, the Aderogushen V, where church members and dignitaries had converged to welcome the prelate and his entourage, before proceeding for the service and reception at the Patriarch Bolaji Cathedral Church, Ikorodu. -Advertisement- Appreciating the prelate’s commitment, Oba Shotobi said, “You have laid the foundation. You have laid the golden eggs, and we’ll continue to live and witness all the good things you have done in the church.” His Eminence Kanu-Uche’s courtesy visit to the palace of the Paramount Ruler of Ikorodu Kingdom, His Royal Majesty (HRM) Oba Kabiru Adewale Shotobi, was the cynosure of all eyes as the monarch, with his chiefs all in attendance, received the Prelate with his large number of ministers. Full of joy and happiness in receiving the Men of God in his kingdom and palace, Oba Shotobi confessed that he is a Methodist and happy to receive the visitors with a song: “This is thy day that thy Lord has made, I will rejoice and be glad in it….” “I am a Methodist and am happy to receive the headship of the Methodist Church Nigeria (MCN) in my palace. Since coming on the throne of my forefathers seven years ago, today is my happiest day and I thank God that He made it happen,” he said. Prelate Kanu-Uche used the occasion to reflect on the happenings in the country as they affect the citizens, especially with the gruesome killing of Deborah Samuel by Muslims extremists at the Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto. POLL The Prelate said: “We know there are things that can cause anger, hunger, economic downturns, and other things, but we should be patient with one another. We have no other country than Nigeria, so we should not start killing people. “We should not vent our anger against fellow Nigerians, we should be one another’s keeper, and we should protect one another. That is my message to Nigerians.” He thus urged Nigerians irrespective of religion and tribes to be calm and put their trust and hope in God. He said further: “The present situation in the country is disheartening and very sad but we should not as a result of that take the law into our hands. What happened in Sokoto is very unfortunate and uncalled for. “We should not see it as an issue that calls for revenge. Rather, we should be our brothers’ keeper and continue to pray for this country,” he said. In spite of all the happenings in the country, the outgoing Prelate assured that Nigeria will not disintegrate as God loves the country. “With God on His throne, we are going to douse the tension in the country. There will be calmness in the land, harmony, tranquility, peace and love in the land. “All we need to do is to continue to pray for God’s guidance and peace over the citizens and the country in general,” he said. Kanu-Uche said many people in leadership are insincere and insensitive to the plights of citizens since they are not holding public trust with the spirit of servanthood. He said, “Who would save Nigeria from this present crop of leaders in both public and private sectors, especially now that we are preparing for 2023 elections? In my view the answer is God. “I say this because we have had qualitative leadership in the past and a few of such among the present crop, but we need more women and men with the heart of sincerity, while citizens are also enjoined to pray for good women and men to become good leaders in every sector of the economy and nation.” Praying for HRM and the entire Ikorodu Kingdom, His Eminence called on the people of Ikorodu to join hands with Oba Shotobi in his quest to continue to develop the city and bring all the good things to the Kingdom. “Ikorodu will come to know peace more than ever before, economically, fruitfully, spiritually, morally and financially. “Progress will continue to abide with the citizens of the town, there will be peace, joy, love and growth in all sphere of the world. This will extend to Lagos State and Nigeria in general,” the Prelate prayed. In his speech, HRM Oba Shotobi said Ikorodu Kingdom was privileged to receive the Prelate and said they would be willing to give testimony of the visit within the next few months. Before leaving the palace, the Prelate informed the monarch that come September 22, 2022, the Methodist Church Nigeria would give an award of ‘Pillar of Ecumenism’ to HRM at the Trinity Methodist Church, Tinubu, Lagos, to appreciate his good work to the general public and Christians in general. His Eminence, after leaving the palace, went to the Methodist Church in Igbogbo to bless the land for the church’s new building and ended his trip to the Ikorodu Diocese at the Patriarch Bolaji Methodist Cathedral in Ikorodu, where he dedicated the ongoing ultra-modern children hall building of the Cathedral. Recall that there was tension among Christian students in various tertiary institutions in Sokoto State in the aftermath of the gruesome killing of Deborah Samuel by Muslim extremists at the Shehu Shagari College of Education over alleged blasphemy. Although the college authorities shut down the school, some Christians confessed that their lives were no longer safe on the campus as Jihadists roamed freely. One of such students, who said she was traumatised by the gruesome killing of Deborah, said she could not wait to leave the college. She said, “We don’t know who is going to be the next victim of what happened to Deborah. I have not yet got over that sad incident where a young lady with a promising future was burnt to death like a goat. And it is so unfortunate that the culprits may escape this at the end. This is not the first and it won’t be the last. “Before, I had thought that Sokoto, or any other place in the North, was where I could live. But the incident affected my decision to continue staying. I just want to finish in this College of Education and get out of the North.” Another student, an indigene of Anambra State, who attends the Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto, also expressed his feelings about the incident. “Though I have not been a victim of religious victimisation before in Sokoto, I have witnessed several religious arguments among my course mates, but none had ever led to a crisis in my school like what happened in Shehu Shagari College. “But Deborah’s killing is now my greatest fear. Since the incident happened, many departmental groups have been tense in my school. Students have to be careful of what they say online unlike before where everyone was free with one another.”