ABUJA – A bill to establish the National Centre for Cancer Treatment, on Wednesday, scaled second reading in Senate. The bill tilled, “National Centre For Cancer Treatment Bill, 2022,” was sponsored by Senator Oseni Yakubu (Kogi Central). In his lead debate, the Sponsor of the Bill argued on the principles of the legislation, disclosing that cancer has become a global disease that accounts for one out of eight women expecting to be either diagnosed for breast and cervical cancer in their lifetime; and two out of ten men expecting to be diagnosed for prostrate, lungs and colorectal cancer. -Advertisement- He underscored statistics by the World Health Organisation (WHO) indicating that cancer is responsible for 7.8 deaths or 13 percent of all deaths worldwide, with 72 percent of such deaths occurring in middle income nations such as Nigeria. According to him, the absence of data on the ailment in Nigeria to determine the correct number of persons affected, in order to reach effective treatment, finds Nigeria lagging behind when compared to its peers. “It is also well known that the various forms of cancer disease have been more felt in Africa and Nigeria – where resources and awareness are not readily available for prevention, diagnosis and treatment”, he added. Senator Yakubu explained that the National Centre for Cancer Treatment Bill, when passed and eventually signed into law, would provide a holistic national strategy for dealing with cancer ailment as a serious national agenda. This is as he added that the bill would also harness the required trained medical manpower in achieving an accessible, radical curative surgery, operations radiation, chemotherapy and the hormone therapy – all necessary for early detection and management of cancer conditions. POLL The bill, which was unanimously supported by lawmakers, was referred by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, to the Committee on Health (Secondary and Tertiary) after consideration. The Committee was given four weeks to report back to the chamber in plenary.