IBADAN – Scores of students of tertiary educational institutions have protested the failure of Federal government to heed to the demand of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and other Union of tertiary institutions, hence, blocking the popular University of Ibadan-Sango, and other roads in Ibadan. The roads were blocked in the early hours of Monday. It could be recalled that the union had been on strike since February this year. -Advertisement- The students, who have been staying at home due to the strike, have barricaded the main gate of the university and other routes that lead to the University of Ibadan and Sango from Ojoo. This forced commuters plying the University of Ibadan-Sango-Bodija Road to find alternative routes. The blockage of the road has caused traffic along the route. The students, who described the strike as needless, said that they will continue to occupy the roads until the institutions are opened. ￼Some of the students who spoke with journalists said they will not leave the road if the schools remained shut. POLL One of the students, Damilola Olubunmi said the ongoing industrial action is affecting not only the students but their parents. “I am here because we need to tell the Federal Government that students must resume. The strike is not affecting the students alone. “The essence of this is that when the road is blocked, people cannot move and they will trend it for us. Then the government will know that we protesting. ￼“The security agents are here, newspapers will carry it, then when they give them the feedback they will know that we are talking. Then the government will seat. We are not doing it only in Ibadan. It is a nationwide protest,” he said. Another student, Solomon Emiola, called for the end of all strikes in the country. According to him, “We are here because of ASUU, NASU SSANU strike. We want the Federal Government to use this as the last strike. “We want all the strikes to finish. This should be the last strike in the history of Nigerian students”.