Lagos – Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) said it has stopped importation of aviation fuel on account of lack of access to foreign exchange. The development may compound the problems of indigenous airline operators who were begged by the Federal Government and stakeholders in the aviation industry to stay action on their planned operational shutdown on Monday due to skyrocketing cost of aviation fuel. The chairman of MOMAN, Olumide Adeosun, disclosed this in a downstream operational update made available to journalists on Monday. -Advertisement- There is no requisite guarantee on investment in spite of the deregulation of aviation fuel, popularly known as Jet A1, Adeosun said, adding that a return to cost recovery and free market and competitive economics is inevitable for the sustainability of the production and distribution framework in the nation’s petroleum downstream industry. He said that verifiable prices of aviation fuel in West Africa range from $1.25 per litre in Ghana to as high as $1.51 per litre in Liberia and even as the product remains scarce across the sub-region He stated that due to the intervention of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC) over the last several weeks, aviation fuel islanded in to marine terminal tanks in Nigeria at between N480 and N500 per litre depending on the logistics efficiency of the operator. He said, “Due to high costs of specific handling of Jet A1 (special transport and continuous filtration), the product is sold on the tarmac at Ikeja (our benchmark), between N540 and N550 per litre and across other airports at between N570 and N580 per litre. “During this period of NNPC intervention, as NNPC uses the nominal CBN exchange rate, no independent importer would import aviation fuel as it is unable to access foreign exchange at the same rate, leaving NNPC as the major importer of aviation fuel for now, even though the product is deregulated. POLL “In comparative terms, the aviation industry is already benefitting from government’s intervention when local prices are compared to West African regional prices, despite the deregulated status of  aviation fuel.” According to him, the situation is unsustainable given the already huge N4 trillion cost of the premium motor spirit (PMS) subsidy. He explained that the interventions are sometimes necessary to mitigate shocks and help the economy, operating environment and the public adjust to the new realities while efforts are being made and innovations introduced to optimise costs and increase efficiencies. He added, “These interventions cannot, however, be permanent in nature. It is our hope that the war in Ukraine comes to a speedy conclusion and the integration of products from the local refineries into the supply chain (Dangote, NNPC and modular refineries) will mitigate the high cost being borne by the government and Nigerians.” He emphasised urgent need to prepare the operating environment and indeed the larger economy for this eventual return. He reiterated MOMAN’s commitment to the institutionalisation and sustainability of a viable petroleum downstream sector in Nigeria, adding that the association will continue to lend its support towards easing the burden of Nigerians at this difficult time. He empathised with all users of petroleum products, airline operators, private vehicle owners, logistics and transport companies, manufacturers, cooking gas users (in homes) and indeed all members of the public who are affected by the worldwide petroleum products price increases which impact logistics, transportation, distribution, and operation costs.