Captain Sunday Michael Umoren is the Secretary General of Abuja Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), on Port State Control (PSC). He spoke to journalists in Lagos last week about his organisation’s target on Ship Seaworthy Compliance, Discouraging Pollution and Promoting Improved Crew Standard at the sideline of the workshop of Chief Executives of all Maritime Administrations signatory to the Abuja MoU at the International Maritime Organization (IMO), organised workshop on Port State Control for West and Central African Region. ANDREW UTULU was there for DAILY INDEPENDENT. Excerpts: What is the minimum standard percentage of ship inspection by any Memorandum of Understanding of Port State Control? Every MoU is at liberty to set the minimum standard. Some have up to 7%, but we are among those that have 20%, with 15% of foreign ships coming to our region. But even with that percentage, I can tell you that some countries are still struggling. Remember, it is a minimum number; there’s nothing wrong in doing more, or we do up to like 25%, but we’ve been struggling to meet that 20%. It is a standard that we have set, and if we get to a point where most member states can meet that threshold, then we up the ante. -Advertisement- We are in the fifth month of the year, do we have reports of vessels that fall short of standards detained or arrested? Yes. Inspection is conducted almost on a daily basis by member states, and we have a central depository where they are recorded which we can pull out at any point in time for record purposes. Presently, we have 14 active members that are conducting inspections, and arrests are made if necessary. What are the statistics for 2021? How many vessels were inspected under your watch? Last year, we had about 52,000 vessels visiting the West African region, and I have the exact figures in my presentation, which I can share with you if you’d like. What is the greatest challenge you found within the region? Because when you were speaking, you mentioned spillage, water pollution and all, so in what areas have vessels that visit this clime had negative impacts? POLL There is what we call concentrated inspection campaign, which is that every year, we focus on a specific aspect of maritime activity where ships were found to be wanting in the previous year. Last year was on ship stability, so we would inform the officers to be ready for inspection and zoom in on that aspect. This year is on ACCW, and they will focus on that. So yes, we have the full database that will analyse the areas of faults, including the countries that default the most. We also have what we call reposition management because even all the MoUs will also train to see which of their vessels are defaulting. How many arrests have you made in the first quarter of this year? When you talk about arrests, we actually refer to it as detention, and we need to be clear about this. There is a code called Code 30, which is about detentions; a vessel being detained doesn’t mean you’re being effective. The best and most effective regime is one where there is full compliance, as in you go onboard a vessel and don’t observe any detainable offenses. That is the best. On an annual basis, we have some details and numbers, which I can show you after this. The IMO representative presented an issue about the lack of implementation of corrective measures; why is it so, and going forward, what can we expect to see?