ABUJA – As part of her corporate social responsibilities towards the child’s development and equal representation in the media, Ruby Model Company- a children modeling company partners with Perfect Clicks Signature- a premium photography to celebrate Children‘s Day with some orphaned children in Ibadan. The hallmark of the celebration was to identify with the needs of the less privileged and help them to embrace and visualize a world of possibilities and beauty that has no limit. Ruby Models came into existence in the pursuit to discover the unexpressed gifts and underdeveloped talents of children. It is a niche modeling outfit which is designed to nurture the gifts in every child. -Advertisement- In expressing her gratitude, the CEO Omolaraeni Olaosebikan mentioned her dissatisfaction in Nigeria’s modeling industry, which seeks to only promote and focus extensively on adult modeling whilst underrepresenting the child modeling. She made emphasis saying “children are endowed with unique gifts and have the potentials to excel in life; all they need is to have the right talent coaching and support to fulfil their dreams” While celebrating with the orphans, she disclosed that the modelling selection process favours all with no bias to race, social status or religion but rather gives credence to uniquely talented children to become brand ambassadors. In collaborating with the statement of the CEO, Mr. Olayemi Omitola, Strategic Business Director, Ruby Models and McEnies Global Communications assent to the vision of the company which is to build children’s confidence and nurture their talents. He said “the greatest gifts you could give a child is Confidence, once a child loses that, everything is lost’’. He therefore encouraged the orphans not to ever look down on themselves, but always remember that they are somebody and made for greatness. In the same vein, the Oyo State Director for Children Welfare, Mr. Ariori Lateef, commended the company for their forthright and distinction in reaching out to the orphans by showering them with love and affection. “We must give recognition and appreciation to few businesses like Ruby Modeling Company that are helping the government to identify other niches that are beyond their scope and expertise by playing their roles to ensure the orphans enjoy the benefits of inclusion. Ruby Models also work through various diversities to collaborate with Advertisers, Advertising Company, Fashion Show Outfits, NGOs, and all relevant stakeholders by showcasing inherent talents through the production of jingles, hypes, voice-over, commercial ads, and photographic contents. Ruby Models present best and uniquely talented Children to display talents on various platforms. The age range of the children in focus is from newborn to 16 years old.