The name, Steve Black still rings bell seriously as a top drummer and percussionist years after. His crack professionalism explains why he was simply a pearl to many celebrated acts and bands for years. Interestingly too, he made his money from such business deals coupled with the one he made as an act, which he is still making from old works of between 1975-1986. In this detailed encounter with IFECHI OKOH, vintage Steve Black opened up on an issue of interest which his fans may have been dying to know about him ever since. It was observed that the late Tony Allen of Abami Eda Band and yourself were in the fore-front of drumming and percussion in Nigeria. Are you aware of this please? Yes, I am fully aware of this. However, I set out as a show man, that I go on stages to do backups and dancing too, as someone who loves to dance but then, as a good listener of music and beats, I was quick to notice that the drumming and percussion were not rhyming with the music as it supposed to be and for this reason, I had to go and learn drumming and percussion. Years later, I joined the defunct clerk 7 band, (Kris Okotie’s); Late Christy Essien-Igbokwe band; BLO; Eric Kool band; Generado Pinos band; Late Sonny Okosun band and many more. It may interest anybody to know and note that I sang and drummed at the same time. Infact, I have some albums to show for these. I mean works like “Happy Birthday to you”, which had Ololufe, the all-time hit on it. This was followed by “Remake the World”, but before all those releases, ‘Village Boogie,’ and a single titled ‘Fun on the Streets’ were released between 1975-1986. But sadly, the Nigerian recording industry didn’t believe in my style of music which was essentially Afro Funk, hence they didn’t give me the expected chance and platform to market the works and see or confirm if they are commercially viable or not. It was actually very unfair to me and embarrassing too. Imagine! It was so ironic that the man they couldn’t give a simple chance to see how commercial his albums were, was always engaged for the recordings of their star acts. You see the wahala? But as God would have it, the proverbial stone the builders shunned, became the head cornerstone in Europe, American and even in Asia. Can you imagine such a divine turn around and wonder that albums rejected in Nigeria were accepted in advanced countries of the world? To me, that’s God simply at work. Anybody who cares should be informed that I still make money till tomorrow from those works released between 1975 and 1986. Incredible? But it is true! I remain eternally grateful to God hence I no longer worry myself making albums in Nigeria till date. -Advertisement- What then is your means of livelihood after these years of great exploits? Oh yeah! My state-of-the-art multi million naira studio based in Mowe town, Ogun State has just been completed with modern gadgets and with high standing studio personnel to operate and supervise its daily operations. My studio is a conscientious and bolder step at packaging new stuff for my international audience, simply used to such standard and can appreciate works of art out rightly. I have since moved round the globe and that is exactly the standard that I am bringing to bear in my business with the expectant huge applications for good music. You understand? Good! Where is this studio of class planted? It is within my expansive building. You can boast of digital and analog equipment there. We strongly believed in this two edged sword philosophy, making our studio a consummate one, and an all-encompassing concern to accommodate all kinds of recordings with such bemusing ease. Before I set up this studio, I researched seriously on all types of equipment and music business of today. I have to do that as a result of my strong conviction that the world has since become a global village where hi-tech has taken over the center stage. Hence, every record production and recording artist has a world standard to meet, for entrepreneurs like us to sell such production and products themselves. May we know if your children are interested in music and possible takeover in the future? POLL Yes! Yes!! Yes!!! But what they are busy doing for now, is the marketing or business side of music. It may interest you to know and note that they are busy connecting me with the international audience through their hi-tech know-how for possible business deals that will last for a lifetime. May God help them in Jesus name, Amen! Can we rule out the possibility of your children being performing acts as a result of not singing or playing any instrument actively like you in the past? Not yet, because God can turn them to musicians overnight if he so wishes. If it happens, they will start writing songs, programming and producing songs and at the same time performing them when the need arises.