Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State on Monday in Minna, Niger State capital assured Nigerians that he would not be an absentee president but will always be on ground to take charge of statutory duties and responsibilities if voted into power in 2023. Tambuwal, one of the presidential aspirants on the platform of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), made the declaration when he met with Niger State delegates ahead of next week’s national delegate conference to be the party’s flag bearer. The Presidential hopeful who traced part of the challenges the country and her citizenry are grappling with today to having a leader who is always absent from duty assured that, “I will not be an absentee President. I shall be there 24/7 to deliver on the people’s mandate”. With the damages done to Nigeria’s polity in the past few years, Tambuwal said what Nigeria needed is a credible leader who will return the country to the path of growth and socio-economic development which can only be offered by the PDP. One of the greatest mistakes the PDP will make ahead of next year’s election is to put forward a candidate that is not credible enough to deliver votes and also win the 2023 Presidential elections, insisting that he is the only candidate that can deliver for the PDP. Describing himself as a unifier with the capacity to bring Nigerians together, Tambuwal, who tactically avoided questions on the murder of a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education, Sokoto, Debora, said he had the potential of uniting the various ethnic divides no matter the situation. Nigeria needed a candidate with the experience to bridge the gap and distrust created by President Muhamadu Buhari-led APC administration and therefore appealed to Niger delegates to consider his candidature as his developmental strides in Sokoto state attests to his capabilities. Among top on the agenda of his administration if voted in as President come 2023, according to Governor Tambuwal is to restructure Nigeria to ensure that every segment and section of the country has a say in his government. Responding, Niger state chairman of the PDP, Tanko Beji commended Tambuwal for visiting the state to meet one-on-one with the delegates, adding, however, that the state has agreed not to consider Presidential aspirants that fail to visit Niger delegates ahead of the national conference. Beji said, “We agreed that any Presidential aspirant who did not visit Niger state will not be considered to get any of our votes. Because you have come here today, we will consider you based on what you have told us and we believe that you will keep to your words”. Lamenting the dwindling fortunes of the country due to some policy summersault of the present administration, Beji said Nigeria needed rescue and only an energetic and visionary President who will be able to unite all the tribes and religions will be good enough for the job.