Emirates Airlines have indicated plans to resume 21 weekly frequencies to two destinations in Nigeria; the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja. This is as the airline recently hosted top travel agents in the country in recognition of their services and ongoing partnerships with the airline. Mr. Badr Abbas, Senior Vice President (SVP), Commercial Operations, Africa, Emirates, while speaking on the resumption of the 21 frequencies to Nigeria, said that the airline, which currently operates 12 weekly flights to Lagos and Abuja intended to increase the frequencies by September 2022. -Advertisement- Currently, Emirates operates seven weekly flights to Lagos and another five frequencies weekly to Abuja. Emirates commenced flight services to Nigeria in 2004 with 60 destinations in its route network as at then, but have continued to increase its influence into the two major cities in the country. With the planned increased, the airline intended to resume 14 weekly frequencies to Lagos; two flights daily and seven flights per week to Abuja. Abbas, who stated that the airline only operates 70 per cent of its pre-Covid-19 pandemic services, stated that it is right now deploying more than one million seats network-wide per week, in line with surging demand for international travel. Abbas emphasised that the Dubai based airline hoped to bring back the rest of its network based on easing of restrictions in certain countries, and other operational factors, but noted it had recovered more than 90 per cent of its network. According to him, the airline’s current services provides an opportunity for its trade partners to have more inventory to sell to customers, stressing that the airline has been adding more seats monthly. POLL He said: “Today, we operate to nearly 130 passenger destinations using our entire fleet of Boeing 777s and close to 70 Airbus A380s aircraft. This time last year, we were operating to 90 destinations. “We are aiming that by the end of this year, we’ll be operating close to 90 A380s, helping Nigerian customers travel in style and experience our signature products as they travel across our network from Dubai. “Today, we operate 12 weekly services to our two Nigerian gateways. And this is increasing shortly. By September, we will restore our services to pre-pandemic levels, which include double daily flights to Lagos and daily operations to Abuja. That’s 21 flights a week to and through Dubai.” Also, Abbas lauded travel agents for their partnership with the airline, which he said had gone a long way to contribute to the success of the airline in Nigeria and its fast post-COVID-19 recovery. He stated that the special travel industry initiative was another clear demonstration of the strategic importance of the Nigerian market to Emirates. Abbas said: “Emirates airline and Nigeria share a very special relationship that goes back to almost 20 years, and we have been connecting Nigerian travellers to a global network which now spans nearly 130 destinations, making it easier to connect with friends, family, trade and tourism opportunities. “We have been eager to visit Nigeria, a market that is very important to us, to meet with the people that have supported us, even in the most difficult of times. Throughout this journey, you, our loyal travel agents have been an integral part of our rebuilding efforts, for which we are extremely grateful. We look forward to your continued support in the years ahead.” The airline also organised a workshop in Lagos for close to 60 travel trade partners, which aims to provide them with the latest updates and information on the airline, its route network and fleet in service, the ramp up of operations in both Lagos and Abuja, new routes for the airline globally and updates on its new premium economy product among others. Emirates flew over 19 million passengers across its network in the last financial year. The event was the first to take place since the outset of the pandemic.