A gubernatorial and two House of Representatives aspirants have sued the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at Federal High Court in Abuja over threats to disqualify them ahead of the 2023 general elections. The aspirants are Ambassador Sodique Baba Abubakar, Sodique Lawal Abubakar and Bindir Umar Buba.By the suit marked, FHC/ABJ/CS/641/2022, filed on May 11, the plaintiffs are praying the court to stop APC and INEC from disqualifying them on the strength of their being political appointees and section 84 (11) and (12) of the Electoral Act 2022. Chief Adeniyi Akintola SAN, filed the suit on behalf of the political appointees on Wednesday. -Advertisement- The plaintiffs want the court to determine whether being Nigerians covered by sections 66, 177, and 182 of the 1999 Constitution, can be subjected to any other conditions, rules or guidelines for the purpose of election into the office of the Governor of Bauchi State and House of Representatives respectively by APC under section 221 of the Constitution other than the qualifications and criteria set out in sections 66, 177 and 182 of the Constitution. The three plaintiffs are contending that section 84 (11) and (12) of the new Electoral Act is discriminatory against them and unconstitutional and therefore should not be permitted by the court to be used to disqualify them on account of their mere political appointment. The plaintiff also prayed the court to determine whether being card-carrying members of APC and political appointees they can be prevented or barred from participating in its political Convention, Congress or Primaries merely because they are political appointees. Upon resolution of the issues in their favour, the plaintiffs asked the court to declare that the APC’s directive that political appointees should resign from their respective posts as a result of sections 84 (11) and (12) of the Electoral Act 2022 is unconditional and therefore null and void. They want the court to declare as unconstitutional, illegal and unlawful the APC’S directive that political appointees must resign from their positions before they can participate as voting delegates or be voted for in the convention or Primaries of the party. POLL Furthermore, the Plaintiffs prayed for an order of injunction restraining APC and INEC either by themselves or agents from preventing, hindering or stopping them from attending, participating in party congress, convention or primaries for the purpose of voting or being voted for as candidates in the forthcoming elections and in any congress, convention or primaries. No date has been fixed for hearing of the suit.