JOS – The Media Campaign Office of Plateau State Deputy Governor and a leading governorship aspirant, Professor Sonni Tyoden, has cautioned politicians against vicious campaigns of calumny and mudslinging. A statement from his media campaign office which was made available to SATURDAY INDEPENDENT stated that there are spirited attempts by some aspirants to malign the personality of the Plateau Deputy Governor by distorting his records of achievement as a one time Vice Chancellor of the University of Jos. The statement noted with grave concern how some Politicians are effortlessly using faceless and wicked organisations to pitch the Jasawa and Hausa community against Professor Tyoden through some scurrilous insinuations. -Advertisement- It described as ignorant, wicked and malicious the publication in some social media that alleged that while Tyoden was the VC of UniJos, he deliberately stopped the Muslim community from using the Rusau Muslim Cemetery by blocking the access road leading to the area. According to the statement, such publication is not only callous but deeply rooted in bad faith, ignorance and mischief with the sole intent of making it look as if Professor Tyoden hates Muslims and Islam, whereas he has blood relations who practice Islam. The statement revealed that when in 2006 the University of Jos noticed the incessant attacks on the students at the University Village, the authorities based on security advice, decided to build a fence around the University Village. According to the statement, that decision became inevitable to save the lives of the students from violent attacks in the neighbourhoods around the University. The statement further revealed that it is undisputed that during the period Professor Tyoden held sway as the Vice Chancellor, issues, as well as problems, were handled without partialityand treated based on their merits and not on ethnic, sectional or religious considerations. POLL The Media Campaign office noted that since it is clear to some aspirants that Professor Tyoden remains the man to beat in the contest, the only option is to malign and destroy him politically. It added that Tyoden will continue to be mature and focused on issue-based campaigns rather than be distracted by mundane and myopic sentiments.