CHIDI UGWU and MOHAMMED SHOSANYA Electricity consumers have kicked against the approval of increase in tariff rates for some selected Distribution Companies otherwise known as DisCos, lamenting that the development is going to wipe out disposable income of the average households in the country. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) had given approval for some selected DisCos to increase tariff rates. -Advertisement- The new approval which already took effect from January 1, 2022 but the new rate is from February 2022, was contained in a document titled, “This regulatory instrument shall be cited as Multi-Year Tariff Order (MYTO-2022) for Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company Plc (PHED). Reacting to the development on Thursday, Kunle Kola Olubiyo, the President, Nigeria Consumer Protection Network, stated that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) had assured that the increments was going to be contract-based, stressing that the impression was that the tariff would increase as service or supply improves, but lamented that since January, when the new tariff took effects, the supply had been abysmally low. Olubiyo, also Member, National Technical Investigative Panel on Power System Collapses, System Stability And Reliability (June, 2013), urged Federal Government to do everything within its powers to revert the privatisation of the power sector, insisting that apart from incommensurate tariff increases, the DisCos are short-changing consumers through manipulation of prepaid meters. “The initial point that NERC pushed across before the adjustment is that it’s going to be contract-based. That is there’ll be guaranteed supply and there’ll be guaranteed services that will come with it. POLL That’s why they say service reflective tariff. If you notice since January this year, for those who stay outside the city centre there is serious decline in electricity supply. Yes, supplies that used to be 5800. Now, after the service based tariff, has declined to about 40% of what we used to have regularly. “So, and aside from the official tariffs that we have, our grouse as consumers is that there are tariffs that are not being officially published, which is mechanical. Mechanically, there’s always this shortchanging of the consumers from the meter. Meters are usually configured to mechanically shortchange consumers beyond the approved threshold of tariff” he said. He also stated that the adjustment for billing has been very high, up to 500 per cent from June 2020 when capping of billing was introduced for the unmetered customers, insisting that these would wipe out disposable income of many homes in the country. The affected DisCos include Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company (PHEDC); Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JEDC); Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC); Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC); Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JEDC); Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) and Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) approval to increase their tariff rates. NERC based the increase on the Performance Improvement Plans of the DisCos and indices such as gas price, inflation, exchange rate, US inflation rate and available generation capacity. The commission noted that the indices with potential impact on electricity rates were considered. It added that these indices shall be reviewed in every six months to update the tariffs with changes in the indices as applicable in line with the MYTO. This was contained in the commission’s Order No: NERC/304/2021, which chairman, Sanusi Garba, and Vice Chairman Musiliu Oseni signed on 29th December, 2021. The document explained, “Consequently, following the approval of PHED’s PIP on 30th April, 2021, the Commission issued the MYTO-2021 Extraordinary Tariff Order effective from July 1 2021 in consideration on PHED’s CAPEX proposals over a five-year plan in line with the approved PIP. “Accordingly, this MYTO- 2022 order restates PHED’s approved five-year CAPEX and relevant assumptions applied to forecast revenue requirements and applicable tariffs for the period 2021-2026 in line with MYTO Methodology and Regulations Procedure for Electricity Tariff Reviews in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI).” It is programmed from July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2026. The document showed that for the PHED (A-Non MD) customers who paid N56.16/ kwh in January 2022 will now (February to December 2022) pay N60.67/kwh). (B Non-MD) customers who paid N56.64/ kwh in January 2022, will now pay N59.64/kwh. The document noted that E-MD2 customers, who paid N50.72/kwh in January 2022, will now (from February 2022) pay N54.22/kwh. Daily Independent recalls that during a recent move to increase the electricity tariff, the Nigeria Labour Congress has again warned the Federal Government against increasing electricity tariff until the FGN-Labour Committee on Electricity Tariff concludes its work and submits its report which would be adopted by the government and Organised Labour. While it was not clear what the outcome of the committee is, the union had cautioned that it would deploy the industrial mechanisms granted in the laws for the defence of workers’ rights if the government failed to abide by the agreement to suspend electricity tariff hike for now. This was contained in a statement on Friday by the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, titled, ‘Labour is committed to freeze the increase of electricity tariff,’ issued in response to a report in a section of the media, that electricity tariff would rise by over a hundred per cent from January 2022. The report was said to have quoted the remarks of the special adviser to the president on Infrastructure at the stakeholders’ engagement of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission held in Lagos on September 17, 2021, which was refuted by the presidential aide. The Organised Labour had last month threatened to embark on industrial action if the FG failed to abide by the agreement to freeze electricity tariff hike until a committee set up to look into the issue submits its report. While acknowledging that the special adviser’s rebuttal got to the NLC secretariat, Wabba also stated that the SA expressed commitment to the engagements with the organised labour. Regardless of the rebuttal, the union reiterated its position that the pact to freeze electricity tariff increase entered into by the FG and Labour last September “remains sacrosanct to Congress and would not admit flouting by any form of subterfuge.” Consumers, who spoke with Daily Independent, advised the Federal Government to avoid being used by private owners of the electricity firms to increase tariff at their whims without corresponding service delivery and value addition to the power sector. Daily Independent also reports that the formal announcement by NERC confirmed the secret increase in tariff by some of the power firms which had elicited concerns in some quarters. NERC, in a document titled,“ This regulatory instrument shall be cited as Multi- Year Tariff Order (MYTO-2022) for Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company Plc (PHED”), explained that it based the increase on the Performance Improvement Plans of the DisCos and indices such as gas price, inflation, exchange rate, US inflation rate and available generation capacity. It noted that the indices with potential impact on electricity rates were considered. It added that these indices shall be reviewed in every six months to update the tariffs with changes in the indices as applicable in line with the MYTO,according to the commission’s Order No: NERC/304/2021, which chairman, Sanusi  Garba and Vice Chairman Musiliu Oseni signed on 29th December, 2021. The document explained: “Consequently, following the approval of PHED’s PIP on 30th April, 2021, the Commission issued the MYTO-2021 Extraordinary Tariff Order effective from 1st July 2021 in consideration on PHED’s CAPEX proposals over a 5-year plan in line with the approved PIP. “Accordingly, this MYTO- 2022 order restates PHED’s approved 5-year CAPEX and relevant assumptions applied to forecast revenue requirements and applicable tariffs for the period 2021-2026 in line with MYTO Methodology and Regulations Procedure for Electricity Tariff Reviews in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI).” Chief Executive Officer of Centre for the Protection of Private Enterprise, Dr.Muda Yussuf, in his reaction, told Daily Independent that increases in electricity tariffs were too frequent. He said the adjustment in the tariff will hurt the economy, investment and the people due to the adverse effects it would have on their welfare. Yussuf, who wondered why cost of energy in Nigeria keeps increasing when there is ongoing global campaign for decrease in energy cost, said the development would further create more challenges for the nation’s exchange rate, alternative energy and trade. He enjoined the Federal Government to consider lessening the burden of Nigerians by looking at the entire costing and pricing framework of energy in the country. Comrade Chinedu Bisah, national coordinator of Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity, told Daily Independent that there was no justification for the wave of tariff increment in the power sector. He described the current adjustment as ill-thought and designed to exploit more Nigerians who have consigned to darkness on account of infrequent supply of electricity by power distribution companies in Nigeria. He said the fact that most workers in Nigeria are denied minimum wage and struggling to no avail to survive the bad economic policies of the current administration make the latest adjustment thoughtless. He wondered why the Federal Government allows the distribution companies to hoodwink it with the tariff increases in exchange for poor service to Nigerians. He also lampooned labour leaders for betraying Nigerians by romancing with distribution companies in the country