Chelsea have been urged to stick with Romelu Lukaku despite a disappointing first season since his £97.5million move from Inter Milan last summer. The Belgian striker has scored just 15 goals in 42 games in all competitions, including eight in 25 Premier League appearances. Former Crystal Palace defender Damien Delaney however believes that such a big outlay from the club means that they should keep hold of Lukaku, despite links back to Italy and his former club. Delaney told Sky Sports: “You stick with him. You have to, you can’t write him off after one season you’ve spent too much money on him. He is undoubtedly a good player but he has not had a good season. -Advertisement- “It’s up to him now as a player to go away and figure out the reasons why he didn’t play well, why he didn’t get the number that he got at Inter and it’s up to the management to use him in the correct way, to do all that they can to help him be the player that we know he can be. “It would be extremely short-sighted if Chelsea were looking to move him on now unless somebody came in and offered to pay the money that Chelsea paid. “Which means recouping the investment and they might look at moving in another direction but I can’t see them offloading him, I can’t see anyone paying the sums of money that Chelsea paid for him from Inter Milan. “So you stick with him for one more season and you hope that both parties can sit down and discuss openly why this season didn’t go well, I’m sure Romelu Lukaku will have his reasons as to why he felt maybe the team didn’t play to his strengths, or I know there were interviews during the year where he spoke about that. “With the manager, sit down and think ‘did we do the best for him as well?’ but he is undoubtedly a quality player, start of the season we were all tipping Chelsea to win the league because of the addition of Romelu Lukaku, a player that can stay at the top of the pitch, plays the number nine, stretches teams in behind, powerful guy, creating space for all the jinky number tens that Chelsea have it all looked so good. “Obviously there have been off the field issues as well for Chelsea to deal with but Lukaku is too good a player just to pack up and move on after one season.” POLL Lukaku has previously been told that he blew his chance of a future at Stamford Bridge, after coming off after 85 minutes in the Blues’ FA Cup final defeat to Liverpool on penalties. He will be hoping to end his season on a high though and has scored three goals in his previous two Premier League games against Leeds United and Wolves.