As the two frontline political parties-All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) prepare to elect their presidential candidates this weekend, TONY EZIMAKOR and SAMUEL OGIDAN present the intrigues and politricks leading to the emergence of the parties’ choices. A mixture of confusion, politricks and outright devious deception is playing out in the ruling All Progressives Con­gress (APC) as villa cabals, governors and presidential aspirants engage one another in a witty game that has literally grounded the Senator Abdullahi Adam- led National Working Committee to a state of inactivity. Behind the confusion is the whisper of an­other plot to use the consensus option to pick the presidential candidate of the party after the party has allowed the aspirants to crisscross the country in the effort to engage party delegates. According to insiders in the party, the APC is working on producing a consensus presidential candidate. -Advertisement- The leadership of APC itself has done little in the way of reassuring aspirants who are said to be in the dark about what is happening outside their own sphere of activities. Senator Abdullahi Adamu -led NWC has done little to address the situation. Recall that since the suspension of the screen­ing exercise on May 23rd, the party has done little other than adjust the timetable of programme and schedule of activities, while apparently watching what happens in the camp of the PDP, their mortal political adversary. From all indica­tions, the lull in activity, including the ongoing delay to screen the presidential aspirants was equally strategic in another sense. According to a source, the party is said to be waiting to see who the PDP is fielding for president and from which geopolitical zone the candidate is likely to emerge. Partyinsidersareof theopinionthatPresident Muhammadu Buhari may eventually opt for use of consensus to determine the party’s presidential flag bearer similar to what happened earlier this year when he browbeat other aspirants for the national chairman to select Senator Abdullahi Adamu to lead the party. If that is what the APC is looking for, well Tinubu has warned that he will not allow anyone to force him to step down. Who Flies The APC Ticket? Political pundits will, however, argue that it’s President Buhari versus Senator Tinubu. There’s no gainsaying the APC as a party and the presi­dency as an institution are not disposed to giving its presidential ticket to Tinubu, it is also very careful not to trigger a tsunami by violently shak­ing him off without any cogent reason. POLL Whereas stakeholders worry about the slow pace of activities in the run to the presidential primary, it appears the seeming “delays” are part of a grand design by the party and villa cabal to frustrate Asiwaju Tinubu’s political machinery, deny him the ticket of the party and also stop him from attempting any last-minute movement into another party. President Buhari has over time not hidden his aversion to the idea of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu succeeding him, even though it was unstated. Famed for his proverbial “body language”, it appears that the president is not in agreement with the emergence of the former Lagos State governor obviously because of his age. Recall that the president had on several occasions hinted at this disposition when he made reference to his own inability to achieve certain goals due to advancing age. Although the campaign to reach the delegates has largely been open and transparent for the aspirants, the APC governors and by extension, the President have reserved a huge measure of control over who emerges. Whichever voting option is adopted by the party, it is not within the realm of imagination that the candidate who has presidential backing will lose in this enterprise. Will the long delay to screen the aspirants for Sunday’s primary close the door for Tinubu to birth his presidential ambition elsewhere? Can he meet Independent National Electoral Com­mission (INEC) deadline should the door through the All Progressives Congress be shot at the last minute? Tinubu’s loyalists say the political jug­gernaut is far too experienced to allow himself to be shut out of a game he probably has an ace. A source disclosed that he allegedly had long pre­pared safe exit platforms to realise his ambition in another party, probably Social Democratic Party (SDP). The findings, according to a security source suggest that the political strength of the Jagaban has substantially waned in the last four years. “The fact is that Tinubu is not wielding the same influence he used to exercise around the South West in the past. His political strength has had a steady decline. His strength in Lagos has been halved. We struggled to retain Osun and Ekiti in the last polls. Oyo is not in our hands, similarly, Ondo was almost gone. In a free and fair contest, Tinubu is not likely to sweep the South West. APC is a national party more people will join even if he pulls out”, our source rationalised his chances. The Jagaban is not relenting in his determi­nation to achieve a lifelong ambition though. Despite a visible and obvious sign of aging, the political guru has surprised ardent critics by mounting a solid campaign that has taken him to most of the states as he sought delegates’ votes in the primary election. And the report from the states especially in the north has not been dis­appointing. Osinbajo, Amaechi, Nwajiuba, Onu, Lawan, The question will be resolved in 48 hours who is Buhari’s preferred candidate. What factors make an aspirant a preferred candidate of Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari? Will his preferred candidate be able to win the election for the party? No doubt, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has demonstrated loyalty to his boss while their 8-year term lasted. During the difficult days of the administration when Buhari’s life hung in the balance, he steered the ship of state with re­markable dexterity. He had also fallen out with his political mentor in the quest for presidential am­bition. The question is: Would Buhari justifiably allow the South West to produce the president of Nigeria in 2023 after the zone had enjoyed an 8-year term under former President Obasanjo? The former governor of Rivers State and ex-Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, fall into the category of President Buhari’s good boys. Against all odds, he left his former party and threw his weight behind the Buhari project and has played role in its famed infrastructure drive. He has also built contacts in the north and has many chieftaincy titles to show for his pan Ni­gerian disposition. He has of late put on the toga of an Igboman to flesh his presidential ambition. Young, energetic, and savvy, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba has been referred to as a bridge be­tween the north and south and old and the young Nigerians. He falls into the category of young intellectual Nigerians north and south of the country who are determined to change the sys­temic distrust and dare a narrative of trust and brotherhood. With tentacles deep in the north and west, many have begun to look in his direc­tion to lead the new Nigerian project. He is said to also have the ears of politicians across the divide. The Senate President came into the presiden­tial race late following a change in strategy by the party to throw the presidential ticket open. It appears he is APC’s response to moving by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to zone its ticket to the northeast, where Atiku Abu­bakar, former Vice President, Bala Mohammed, and Bauchi State governor are campaigning for the ticket of the party. Like most other aspirants, the concern among stakeholders is that, APC may have serious dif­ficulty raising a candidate that can attract the quantities of votes the party had enjoyed. It is for this reason, that we gathered the party pressurised former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, Akinwumi Adeshina ADB president and to some extent, Godwin Emefiele, the Cen­tral Bank Governor to run on the platform of the APC. Other aspirants including Dave Uma­hi Governor of Ebonyi State, Ogbonnaya Onu, and a host of other aspirants currently awaiting APC screening, no doubt, fall into this category perhaps with the exception of Owelle Rochas Okorocha. At the Wadata House, the headquarters, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will within to­day and Sunday decide who among the 14 presi­dential aspirants will fly the party’s flag. For the past few months, the aspirants have been criss­crossing the country, begging, cajoling, inducing, intimidating, romancing, and massaging the egos of the delegates in a bid to win their favour and get their votes. Tension seems to have engulfed the PDP as the party leadership and the presidential aspirants engaged in last minute consultation on Friday. The atmosphere was further charged when People Living With Disability (PLWD) stormed the party secretariat, lamenting that their names were not captured in the delegate lists. A closer look at the lists revealed that the names captured by the PDP were that of the delegates from the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The angry PLWD challenged the leadership of the party to explain to them why their names were removed from the delegate lists. Unfortu­nately, no member of the NWC was on ground at that time to address them. A further look at the delegate lists revealed that out of the 14 presidential aspirants contest­ing the primary, only the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and former President of the Sen­ate, Pius Ayim are on the lists. It was learnt that members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the presidential aspirants have been meeting to strategise on the way forward. A source at the party revealed that the purpose of the meeting was to see whether some of the aspirants would step down for others. Meanwhile, the Minority Leader of the Sen­ate, Enyinnaya Abaribe has dumped the PDP and resigned as Minority Leader of the Senate. Abaribe announced his resignation in two separate letters – one addressed to his Ward Chairman and the other to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, dated 24th and 26th May, 2022 re­spectively. In a letter to his former ward chairman in the PDP, Abaribe said, “this development is consequent upon the shameful display of ille­gality, impunity and undemocratic decision of the party and after due consultations with my constituents.” Abaribe, who represents Abia South in the Senate had recently withdrawn from contesting the governor­ship ticket of the PDP in the state. TheChairmanof thePeoples Democratic Party (PDP) Na­tional Convention Organising Committee (NCOC), Senator David Mark has assured that arrangements have been made for a hitch-free exercise today, Saturday. Addressing members of the committee of the Convention in Abuja aheadof the programme, Senator Mark assured that the exercise will be smooth and transparent. He told members of the committee to brace up to the challenges to ensure a credible exercise, saying, “you must be absolutely transparent. “If you have any interest or biasforanyof theaspirants, you canexcuseyourself fromthis as­signment.” Senator Mark maintained that the stage is set for a hitch-free programme as all logistics, materialsandsecurityhavebeen sorted out. He added: “We are prepared for the exercise, virtually all our delegates have arrived Abuja.” He said the PDP has a track record of conducting peaceful congresses and conventions over the years, assuring that the outcome of the convention will make the party stronger. He said: “The PDP has an array of eminently qualified persons to rule Nigeria. We car­ried out due diligence during our screening. I am confident that whoever emerges from the convention will reflect the wish­es of our party.” Senator Mark and his com­mittee members also inspected the facilities at the Velodrome, Moshood Abiola stadium, Abu­ja, venue of the convention. However, many permuta­tions have been in the political space on who among the aspi­rants would clinch the ticket. So many factors will decide, who will get the ticket today Satur­day even though serious nego­tiations are ongoing by the as­pirants and party stakeholders. While the governors’ factors cannot be overlooked because the delegates in PDP-controlled states will align themselves to thedictate andinfluenceof these governors, leaders and states chairmenwillalsobeinfluential, especially in states where PDP doesn’t have governors. The money factor will be a major decider of this presi­dential primary described as the delegates’ election. Already, there are reports that some of the money bag aspirants were influencing the delegates with Naira and Dollar bills and those without this finan­cial war chest are panicking. This is the reason why some political analysts were of the opinion that some aspirants will shift ground and collapse their camps with those who can meet their terms. The withdrawal of Peter Obi from the race has reduced the number of PDP presidential aspirants to 14. The presidential aspirants are Sokoto State gov­ernor and former Speaker in the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; for­mer Presidents of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and Pius Anyim andBauchiStateGovernorBala Mohammed. Others are River State Gov­ernor, Nyesom Wike; publisher, Dele Momodu; former banker, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; pharmacist, Sam Ohabunwa, Akwa Ibom State Governor, Emmanuel Udom, former gov­ernor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose; a lawyer, Charles Okwudili and Chikwendu Kalu and the only female presidential aspirant, Olivia Tariela. Even though 811 delegates will decide who wins the party presidential ticket on Satur­day-Sunday, some of the as­pirants stand tall among the contenders. Those, who really loominglargerareAtikuAbuba­kar, AminuTambuwal, Nyesom Wike and Bukola Saraki. Atiku, Bala Mohammed, and Mohammed Hayatu-deen are from the same North East, which automatically will divide their delegates’ votes. While Ati­ku is from Adamawa, Moham­med is the governor of Bauchi State and Hayatu-deen is from Borno. The most influential among them will garner the highest votes because PDP only controls three states in the zone. Apart from Adamawa, Bauchi and Taraba States, the other three states, Yobe, Gombe and Borno States are free zones. Saraki on his part is from the North Central. From all in­dications, he’s the only aspirant coming from that zone, but that doesn’t mean all the delegates are in his kitty. There’s no doubt that he’s influential, but still has a lot of work to do because some states from the North Central will be penetrated by the money bag aspirants from other zones. Money is already been used by some aspirants to win the dele­gates’ favour. The states in the North Cen­tral are Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa, Niger, PlateauandBenue. While Benue is controlled by PDP, oth­ers are not. The direction of the governors, state chairmen and strong stakeholders from these states will be a factor that pres­idential aspirants, especially Saraki should look into because they will influence the delegates. Each of the 14 aspirants will try to dominate and keep his stronghold before going out to shop for more; this will clearly give Tambuwal an edge over others, even though he may not control all the delegates. North West is the highest voting bloc now with the use of only na­tional delegates. Aside from this zone, Tambuwalhasinfluencein other states through friends and associations. Nyesom Wike, the governor of Rivers State is an aspirant to watchinthispresidentialprima­ry because aside from his state, Wike controls some states in the South East, South-South and South West. Some of these gov­ernors from South East, South- South and southwest are work­ing for him. It was rumoured that he’s buying his way into the heart of the delegates.