ABUJA – Tension seems to have engulfed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the party leadership and the presidential aspirants engaged in last-minute consultation on Friday. The atmosphere was further charged when People Living With Disability (PLWD) stormed the party secretariat, lamenting that their names were not captured in the delegate lists. A closer look at the lists revealed that the names captured by the PDP were that of the delegates from the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). -Advertisement- The angry PLWD challenged the leadership of the party to explain to them why their names were removed from the delegate lists. Unfortunately, no member of the NWC was on the ground at that time to address them. A further look at the delegate lists revealed that out of the 14 presidential aspirants contesting the primary, only the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and former President of the Senate, Pius Anyim, are on the lists. It was learnt that members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the presidential aspirants have been meeting to strategize on the way forward. A source at the party revealed that the purpose of the meeting was to see whether some of the aspirants would step down for others. Meanwhile, the Minority Leader of the Senate, Enyinnaya Abaribe, has dumped the PDP and resigned as Minority Leader of the Senate. POLL Abaribe announced his resignation in two separate letters – one addressed to his Ward Chairman and the other to the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, dated 24th and 26th May, 2022 respectively. In a letter to his former ward chairman in the PDP, Abaribe said, “this development is consequent upon the shameful display of illegality, impunity and undemocratic decision of the party and after due consultations with my constituents.” Abaribe, who represents Abia South in the Senate had recently withdrawn from contesting the governorship ticket of the PDP in the state. The Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Convention Organizing Committee (NCOC), Senator David Mark has assured us that arrangements have been made for a hitch-free exercise on Saturday. Addressing members of the Committee of the Convention in Abuja ahead of the programme, Senator Mark assured that the exercise will be smooth and transparent. He told members of the committee to brace up to the challenges to ensure a credible exercise, saying, “you must be absolutely transparent. “If you have any interest or bias for any of the aspirants, you can excuse yourself from this assignment.” Senator Mark maintained that the stage is set for a hitch-free programme as all logistics, materials and security have been sorted out. He added: “We are prepared for the exercise, virtually all our delegates have arrived Abuja.” He said the PDP has a track record of conducting peaceful congresses and conventions over the years, assuring that the outcome of the convention will make the party stronger. He said: “The PDP has an array of eminently qualified persons to rule Nigeria. We carried out due diligence during our screening. I am confident that whoever emerges from the convention will reflect the wishes of our party.” Senator Mark and his committee members also inspected the facilities at the Velodrome, Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja, the venue of the convention.