The minister of finance, budget and planning, Dr. (Mrs.) Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed has urged the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to connect its newly commissioned portal to the federal government database, state governments and other agencies across the country to provide value added services to all Insurance Industry Some of the agencies to be connected, according to the minister who said this at the official commissioning of the portal are; the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) NIN Database, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Passport Database, Nigeria Integrated Customs Information system, FRSC’s National Vehicle Identification System, the National Vehicle Registry, State Licensing Databases among others. This, she added, was in order to provide value added services to all Insurance Industry stakeholders and enhance revenue generation, asserting that the dwindling government revenue profile demands that the Commission must look into ways of increasing its revenue through the use of technology and the Portal in particular. -Advertisement- “It is a delight for me to be in your midst this morning to perform the commissioning of the portal of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). I congratulate the governing board, management and staff of the Commission on achieving this feat; leveraging technology and data for the transformation of its processes; drive its regulatory and supervisory functions, increase operational efficiency and improve its corporate outcomes. “I understand that the Portal will serve as a platform for interconnecting all industry stakeholders to support real-time aggregation of data, automate its business processes and provide access to statistical data of the sector. “The commissioning of the Portal should serve as a springboard for industry wide adoption of technology and innovation for efficient and effective service delivery, ease of transacting business and customer experience and satisfaction. “The industry should provide quick turnaround time on their services, grant access to information when required without any inhibitions and maintain effective real-time communication with its customers. “Dwindling Government revenue profile demands that the Commission must look into ways of increasing its revenue through the use of technology and the Portal in particular. POLL “ I urge the Commission to ensure the Portal is connected to other government databases like the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) NIN Database, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Passport Database, Nigeria Integrated Customs Information system, FRSC’s National Vehicle Identification System, the National Vehicle Registry, State Licensing Databases among others in order to provide value added services to all Insurance Industry stakeholders and enhance revenue generation. “In addition, the NAICOM Portal must also serve as the central database and sole repository of all Insurance Data connected to government databases in the country.” She counselled. On claims, the minister advised the insurance operators to live upto their business obligation centred on prompt claims settlement saying that the unsatisfactory response to settlement of claims by underwriters had greatly contributed to the prevailing poor public perception and lack of trust and confidence in the insurance Industry. “You will agree with me that the unsatisfactory response to settlement of claims by underwriters had greatly contributed to the prevailing poor public perception and lack of trust and confidence in the insurance Industry. Indeed, prompt claims payment is the best advertisement for the industry, therefore all genuine claims that have been duly verified and due process followed, should be paid promptly. She mandated that “the Commission must put in place mechanisms to ensure Insurance companies meet their obligations to policyholders by paying claims promptly as that is the major reason they exist in the first place. Claims payment determines the valuable structure of the industry in the economy.” Ahmed frowned at the low insurance penetration of 0.88per cent which she said indicates a low Insurance sector development contribution to the National Economy. “The current Insurance Penetration, a measure of the contribution of Insurance to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 0.88 for 2021 is very low. This indicates a low Insurance sector development contribution to the National Economy,” said Ahmed.