LAGOS – Justice J.D Peters of the Na­tional Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN), Ibadan Ju­dicial Division has ordered and directed the Oyo State Post-Primary Schools Teach­ing Service Commission to immediately re-compute and re-calculate the dates of the gratuity and pension of a primary School teacher, Mrs. Elizabeth Adenike Aina using the appropriate date of the first appointment as confirmed by her letter of Normalisation of the first appointment. The defendants were also or­dered to pay to the Claimant the sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira (N250,000.00) as the cost of the suit. Justice Peters made this or­der while delivering judgement in the suit filed by the Claimant Mrs Elizabeth Adenike Aina against the Oyo State Post-Pri­mary Schools Teaching Service Commission and the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyo State as defen­dants respectively. -Advertisement- Aina had dragged the defen­dants before the court in the suit No. NICN / IB/ 53/ 2018, challenging the Defendant’s Pension/Gratuity Porm/ letter with reference number PG. 19,423/45 dated 18/04/1 and stating 31/7/2012 and 1/8/2012 as Claimant’s effective dates for payment of her gratuity, and pension, stating that it is wrongful, unlawful, unjustifi­able. The claimant, through her counsel, Mr. Femi Aborisade has consequently urged the court for a declaration that by the defendant’s letter of nor­malisation of claimant’s first appointment dated July 7, 2008, the effective date of claimant’s first appointment is October 1, 1982. The judge further ordered and directed the defendants and their appropriate agents/ officers to effect payment of gratuity and pension of the claimant including the unpaid arrears based on the claimant’s date of first appointment as ex­pressly stated in Ist Defendant’s letter of Normalisation of Claimant’s first appointment. “I refuse and dismiss the claim for general damages for lack of proof by evidence. “The defendants are or­dered and directed to pay to the claimant the sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira (N250,000.00) as cost of this suit. POLL “I refuse and dismiss all the heads of counterclaims for lack of proof by cogent and credible evidence. All the terms of this judgment shall be complied with within 30 days,” the judge further ruled.