In a bid to cushion the effects of sharp cracks created as a result of an imbalance in power-sharing, the People’s Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCo) has reiterated its call for the election of a President from the Southeast extraction in the 2023 general election. Dr Emeka Kalu, the National Coordinator of the group in a statement to journalists pointed out that since the creation of Nigeria as a sovereign state in 1960, no Igbo man had been elected to lead the country. The group maintained that it is high time the zone produced the next President of Nigeria, noting that democracy was incomplete without balancing the country’s equations of equity in the national government, putting into consideration the heterogeneous inclination and ethnic diversities of the country. -Advertisement- Kalu emphasised that there can’t be a government of national unity without fairly giving people from other ethnic nationalities a slot in the helms of affairs, insisting that the country belonged to all ethnic groups in the country. Kalu declared that the presidential aspirants of South-East extraction like Mr Peter Obi, Sen. Anyim Pius Anyim, Sen. Orji Uzo Kalu, Chris Ngige, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu and others are competent and equipped with the desired leadership qualities capable of revitalising Nigeria economy. He added: “…we are one Nigeria verbally while on the other hands divided in selfishness, ethnicity and favouritism. Power in the spirit of fairness is expected to change hands so as to create an atmosphere of political inclusiveness in the land. “Igbo own the prime and diversely established entrepreneur industries that generate 67 per cent employment capacity in the labour market and without any ethnic sentiment, Nigerians from various backgrounds were being employed and handsomely paid by the said establishments. “There is no way Nigeria would be advancing politically and economically in the face of ethnic domination and prebendalism. POLL “Equity cannot be compromised and one would be expecting positive changes in the system. It is a mirage to think of fielding a country of fourth industrial revolution class when the system of governance in place is built on cheating and injustice.”