What is the thing that makes a person to do something or take an action? Two things make a person to take an action or do something (a) Action taken or something done out of deep thought (b) something done out of undeep thought i.e. inability to think deeply before taking a decision and executing it. These two thoughts make people to fall or encounter calamities and disasters. Some people fall because they did not think deeply before taking an action that lead to their downfall. Maybe they were not to engage in a fight and they did. This might make them guilty before God. All they understood then was to rebuke the cheating or insult melted in them. They became obstinate and felt then need to engage in a physical fight. Later on they might regret the action they took and asked why did they do it? In the same vein, some people would take same action after a deep thought and no alternative and the fight would elevate them from their present position to higher positions. A deep thought and undeep thought both come from the heart but the aftermath of these thoughts might lead to fortune or misfortune or make person to become clean or unclean. Jesus said in the book of Mark 7:17-23 “…what comes out of a man is what makes him unclean. Far from within out of men’s hearts, come evil thought, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance and folly. All these evil come from inside and make a man unclean”. Some people took some actions which they regretted thereafter. Imagine a man resigned from a job wrongfully with the hope that he would get another job. But he could get a job and regretted his action, made several efforts to go back to his former job to no avail. Infact his joblessness led to his demise. Similarly, a man resigned from a company and got a better job that elevate him to a higher level. Eventually he became friendly with his former director and established business relationship with the former company. Regrets come from actions taken which fail to meet the desire expectations and yearning. Deep thought and undeep thought might make a person to regret his or her action. I fervently pray that in all our undertakings we would not regret our actions or deeds in the name of Jesus. Imagine some people use other people’s unpleasant or misfortune life to think deeply and determine to change the curse of their life from poverty direction. Such people would embark on menial jobs to educate themselves so that they could have better life where they can cater for their families. For example I saw a young lady hawking plantain chips on the road. She was approaching motorists to patronize her by buying her chips. The manner of her approach made me to ask her if she was living on the chips she was selling. She told me that selling of chips sustain her education in one of the universities. Infact, she was a 300 level student. I was inspired to pray for her and gave her additional money after I paid for the actual quantity I bought. Imagine, she was determined to sponsor herself to university education after a deep thought. Meanwhile some ladies who had opportunities to acquire university education failed to do so because they did not think deeply about their life and what to do. They failed to think that their parents can pass on anytime and they would not get anybody to sponsor their education. Brethren I pray that our thoughts will not lead us to self destruction. Some people took decisions after deep thought (negative thinking) and regretted the action and lead to their destruction. Imagine Judas Iscariot who betrayed Jesus Christ. He agreed to do so when the chief priest gave him money to betray Jesus (Luke 22:1-8). But Judas regretted his action. Matthew 27:3-5 “When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and elders. I have sinned, he said, for I have betrayed innocent blood. What is that to us, they replied. That is your responsibility. So Judas threw the money and left. Then he went away and hanged himself”. Judas Iscariot actions and deed lead to his death by committing suicide. Similarly, the prodigal son took a decision to demand for his inheritance from his father. He thought deeply and decided to demand for his share of his father’s possession. However, he regretted his action when he could not make ends meet after squandering all his inheritance. Again he thought deeply and decided to retrace his step and went back to his father and begged for forgiveness. Notwithstanding his deed, the father accepted him back and rejoiced with him (Luke 15:11-32). Again I pray that we would not regret all the actions and deeds resulting from our deep thought and undeep thought in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.