A Political pressure group, Plateau Low land Mandate Group ( PLLMG ) is drumming support for the Senatorial bid of Air Vice Marshal Napoleon Bali (rtd) to contest for Plateau South Senatorial District on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). AVM Bali who retired from the Nigerian Air Force recently as Chief of Policy and Plans (COPP) HQ NAF after an illustrious 35 service years is currently vying for the position of the Plateau South Senatorial seat. Speaking with newsmen in Jos, the Chairman of the group, Hon. Nankur Ndam on Sunday said AVM Bali is a politician with unbridled loyalty, grassroots appeal and soundtrack records. -Advertisement- “The decision to endorse Napoleon Bali was taken after expanded consultations with the leadership in the six local governments in Plateau South Senatorial District,” The group Promised to support AVM Bali to win the election saying he has all it takes to contest and win the election based on his track records. ” We decided to queue behind Bali because of his stance on issues concerning Plateau South Senatorial district, his state and the country. He described AVM Bali as a friend of the masses irrespective of tribe, religion or political affiliation. AVM Bali while in military service won several awards and was favoured by history to have a successful run at the Senate in 2023 if elected, the group leader stressed. POLL He added that” If elected Napoleon Bali would play active roles in the development of Plateau South Senatorial District .” According to him, AVM Bali is a household name in Plateau South senatorial district with a strong grassroots appeal that can help the party the PDP win the Southern Senatorial District. He further stressed that Bali has impacted a lot in his immediate Constituency through several developmental initiatives. “If elected Napoleon Bali will leverage his goodwill and wide contacts to promote the socio-economic development of his people.” He added that AVM Bali a security expert has been worried about the security situation of his state, particularly the Security in the Southern Plateau where herdsmen and farmers always have frequent clashes over grazing land. AVM Bali RTD was enlisted into the Nigerian Defence Academy in 1983 as a member of 33 Regular courses and commissioned as a Pilot Officer in 1986. AVM Bali underwent Basic Flying Course in 303 Flying Training School (FTS), Kano from 1990 to 1992 and was thereafter trained as an Instructor Pilot (IP) on jet aircraft between 1998 and 1999 in the same Institution. Upon completion of his IP Course in 1999, Napoleon Bali attended Joint Air Course (JAWC) in Hyderabad, India where he graduated with an ‘Excellent Grade’.