“We face a confluence of calamities.” Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director, International Monetary Fund, IMF. Your Excellency, President Buhari, I write this time, not to criticise you and your government,but to plead for your attention. -Advertisement- To be quite candid, the calamities to which Ms Georgieva refers are global and have caught even the best governments by surprise. This is not the time to repeat all the predictions made about the trends in the Nigerian economy since the last few years. What Nigeria needs urgently are not more critics, but some solutions and ideas which can be implemented to save us from the imminent calamities threatening governments worldwide. Permit me, Sir, to list the calamities and how they threaten the lives of 211 million Nigerians. Some were externally-induced; while a few were self-created. Irrespective of who is at fault, they all pose dangers to our lives – at a time when you and Vice President Osinbajo are totally distracted by politics. Even the Ministers are neck deep in politics. There is absolutely nobody in charge of the economy right now – at a time when we actually need all hands on deck. That is our own domestic tragedy. POLL There is little comfort in knowing that even China, whose government is fully focused on the economy, experienced negative growth in the first quarter of 2022 and might lead the global parade into recession. This is an economy which until two years ago was clocking annual GDP growth of 8 to 10 per cent. That is one of our problems. Recession abroad induces worse economic downturn here. Universal Inflation Inflation in 2022 has become the scourge of our planet; just as COVID-19 terrorised us in 2020. No nation is immune; none can ignore it without risking dire consequences later. Unfortunately, the poorer nations, most heavily dependent on imports, are going to be hardest hit. Nigeria is one of them. Everything we import henceforth will bring in inflation from the source; and then, domestic inflation will be added. Double whammy is what it is called; and it will make our lives increasingly miserable. So Sir, even though your government cannot prevent inflation from further savaging Nigerians’ purchasing power, it can reduce the impact. I have a few ideas , unconventional admittedly, which are not being tried right now. A naira saved can mean somebody going to bed with food instead of empty belly. On a national level, the ideas will ensure that millions can afford more on the same income or revenue. Let me stop there for now. Food Shortages Everywhere “The rich cannot sleep because the poor are awake. The poor are awake because they are hungry.” That was the observation of a sage regarding nations undergoing unorganized revolution. Pervasive and relentless hunger affecting the vast majority of the people in any country is almost always the harbinger of massive social and political unrest. Invariably, all development stops while the nation sorts itself out of the mess which was mostly man-made. The current problem in Nigeria has been building up for more than a century. The notion that a country, in which one per cent of the population controls over 50 per cent of the wealth, can be peaceful forever is one of our most enduring delusions. Now reality is delivering an unmistakable message to us. We better act fast before millions of hungry fellow countrymen and women take to the streets in protest. They are not working on the official timeline. They are not waiting until the elections next year. They will want food before then. Right now, food supply is threatened as never before in our history by hoodlums of all sorts. But, the most dangerous are the herdsmen; because they are the most national in operations. The Federal Government has two choices. It can openly distance itself from the herdsmen; or all Nigerians will suffer the repercussions later. We created that problem and we can begin to solve it. Climate Change Catastrophes. “We are ready to die than leave our farmlands, fishes “ — villagers in Niger State. Report September 2016. The weather forecast for this year warned Nigerians to expect 330 days of rain. Nigeria, like every country in the world, has been experiencing increasingly devastating floods. One of the worst occurred in 2016; that was four years after another serious one left death and destruction in its wake in 2012. All the disasters have occurred despite prior warnings by the Meteorological Services and urgent appeals by state governments. Nigerians living along flood plains bluntly refuse to move. Thousands of those refusing to leave their farms and fish were washed away in the end. The forecast for this year portends an unprecedented national calamity. And, still Nigerians are refusing to move upland. If you think they are lunatic, then think again. They have several reasons to want to risk death. They have no other means of livelihood; no place to stay if they move, no money to relocate their properties for a short period and return again in four months; they risk losing their farms and fish ponds if others stay behind and survive the flood, and there might be greater threats to lives elsewhere. For them, moving is not an option. For the rest of us, a great flood would mean reduced aggregate harvest and increased food scarcity. We need pro-active measures to minimize the impact of floods before they occur. Otherwise, the other streams pouring into the confluence of calamities will make things severely worse. War In Ukraine “War is hell”; said General Sherman, 1820-1891. In the past, only those directly involved felt the horrors of a war. But, since the 1970s when the Arab-Israeli war resulted in oil embargo by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, raising crude oil prices sharply and creating global inflation and then recession, economic historians have learnt to factor the consequences of any war into their forecasts. Thus, I was sure, even before it got underway, that the war in Ukraine would affect Nigeria adversely. Unfortunately, the FG does not listen to advice from outsiders. My fears, based on economic precedents, would have been shared with them much earlier. But, now the country is heading for major food crisis. That is why this SOS to the President has become necessary. Ukraine war has become a war on the people of Nigeria – especially the poor. We must save them. Insecurity Insecurity is listed among the streams contributing to the confluence of calamities. I don’t think there is any need to elaborate on this factor. Bandits impose sit at home on farmers in Zamfara; gunmen order Imo farmers to do the same; and the ubiquitous herdsmen are everywhere scaring farmers off the land. The obvious question now is: who will provide the food we need? Certainly, we can’t wait until after the elections next year for solutions. Foreign Exchange Scarcity “Net foreign exchange inflow falls 62% to $950m.” Report, May 24, 2022. Never in the history of Nigeria have we needed more foreign exchange than now. Yet, the country is experiencing the lowest foreign exchange inflow in more than ten years. We are in a fix. And, it will amount to a serious blunder for the FG to think that the issue of devaluation can wait until after the elections. We must act now or become like Sri Lanka very soon. The CBN is helpless.