The Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Health has flagged off the International Training of Trainers in Basic Emergency Care Services organized by the International Committee of  Red Cross (ICRC). Addressing the participants, the National Programme Manager of the National Emergency Medical Services and Ambulance System (NEMSAS), Dr. Saidu Ahmed Dumbulwa hinted that the flag-off marks a very important day in the history of the Ministry’s strong desire to promote Emergency Medical Services in Nigeria in collaboration and support of ICRC, which is in line with the World Health Organization’s (WHO) recognition as a tie of healthcare system. Dr. Saidu in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja by the DD (Media & Public Relations) , A.A. Chindaya commended the management of  ICRC for packaging the Training of Trainers of the Basic Emergency Care Services (BECS), which is the first of its kind in sub-Sahara Africa to give credence to effective medical emergency response. -Advertisement- The statement reads: “As part of Mr. President Health Sector Agenda, we currently have the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF), with three gateways, the NPHCDA, NHIS and EMT. 5% of  the 1% CRF is allocated to the EMT gateway. The EMT gateway he further revealed owns a programme called National Emergency Medical Services and Ambulance System, NEMSAS”. The National Programme Manager, NEMSAS, noted that  the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the fragility of our health system in Nigeria and globally especially in the areas of medical response, NEMSAS therefore stands a better option for addressing the missing link in the Nigeria Health Sector for effective emergency medical response in the control of outbreak of disease in Nigeria. Saidu on behalf of the Federal Ministry of  Health thanked the ICRC and those `who have expressed their support for the laudable idea of  NEMSAS, and still seek more supports of all stakeholders as “the training will be a game-changer especially as we are preparing to roll out the pilot of the NEMSAS Programme”. Speaking earlier, the representative of the International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC). Dr. Mundi said that ICRC work day in and day out to urgently increase the capacity of healthcare workers for effective basic emergency services to help humanity. Dr. Mundi disclosed that the organization remains totally committed to supporting Member States to strengthen these essential medical emergency services and cherished the collaboration cooperation existing between ICRC and Federal Ministry of Health.