Former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki has said that Nigeria has moved from being a weak nation to a failing nation under the present administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari. Saraki, a former governor of Kwara state, made this disclosure while speaking in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital on Tuesday. Saraki who is one of the presidential aspirants on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of 2023 elections, has however declared that Nigeria was a weak nation before Buhari came to power in 2015. -Advertisement- He insisted that the country has moved from being a weak nation to a failing nation because the present administration has failed the citizens. Saraki while addressing the PDP delegates in Oyo state at the party’s secretariat, added that the country need someone who will rescue the country from total collapse. Present at the party’s secretariat to receive the former governor were party’s chairman, Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro, secretary, Hon. Wasiu Adeleke, former Minister, Elder Wole Oyelese, Chief Saka Balogun and other party’s chieftains. Saraki while addressing the PDP members, maintained that the country need a person who can unite the country and its people. He advised Nigerians to elect someone who has the capacity as President in 2023. POLL According to him, “Before Buhari, APC came to power, we were a weak nation, but now, we are now a failing nation. There is a difference between a weak nation, a failing nation and a failed nation. “We have moved from a weak to a failing nation. But, we need someone who can rescue us from being a failed nation. “We must elect someone who has the capacity. We need a man with the experience. We need someone who can unite Nigeria and I am that person. “We need someone who can unite both the old the the young together. Let us vote for the person that can unite the country. “I am promising you that I am the one that has the capacity to do it. This country need someone with energy to move the country forward”.