LAGOS – Some school proprietors in Ogun State have called on Gov­ernor Dapo Abiodun to inter­vene over the alleged extortion proposed by the state Ministry of Education on digitalisation of schools. The proprietors alleged that the state government has asked each private school to pay be­tween N60,000 and N90,000 per term, depending on the size of the school, for the digitalisation of their schools. This, according to the pro­prietors, is different from the renewal fee of the sum of be­tween N20,000 and N300,000 that each school pays annually to the government, noting that Ogun State has about 4,500 pri­vate schools. -Advertisement- Speaking with Daily In­dependent, Mrs. Bukola San­gotedo, a school owner under Abeokuta South Local Govern­ment Area, said the decision is insensitive. “Digitalisation of schools in­troduced by the government is good but it is with a wrong mo­tive. The system is to extort or steal from private schools. The government used the renewal fee we pay annually to hire a consultant for public schools and then ask the private schools to go and look for money to pay for themselves. This is what I consider as a daylight robbery by the government,” she said. Sangotedo said the Commis­sioner for Education, Professor Abayomi Arigbabu, in his re­sponse to an interview with The Punch recently insisted that the government has taken its decision. “You need information from me or data about children un­der my care that you rightly agreed should be your respon­sibility, why should I be the one to pay for the information you need from me? You need infor­mation for planning and policy formulation, then why asking me to pay?” she queried. Abiola Azeez, a school pro­prietor from Sagamu Local government area, said the gov­ernor needs to attend to this burning issue. POLL Azeez said, “I doubt if the governor is properly briefed about this trick to extort. I am appealing to the governor to kindly wade in. Yes to digital­isation but no to extortion be­cause the private schools will pass the burden to the parents. We will tell the parents that the government has introduced Learner’s Identification Num­ber of which a child without it will not be able to get certificate, results and what have you.