Undeterred by daunting odds across the spheres, the See-Joy Foundation has declared its determination to take no fewer than a million indigent African children out of the tangles of ignorance and poverty through quality, yet wholly free education. Making the declaration at NECA House, Ikeja on Tuesday was Pastor Prosper Kanayo, the founder of the over-two-decade-old non-commercial organisation while addressing a press conference to herald its planned awards for 28 outstanding school children across various categories come Friday, May 27 to mark the 2022 International Children’s Day. According to the cleric with a unique calling, the See Joy Foundation has been committed to discovering, ‘adopting’ and bankrolling indigent but gifted children through a fully funded thorough education in order to ensure for them a fulfilled future and in turn, help to achieve a progressively revolutionised Africa. -Advertisement- Pastor Kanayo recalled that the See Joy under his divinely envisioned midwifery has bankrolled scholarships for a good number of indigent students from secondary schools to graduation levels at different higher institutions.Kanayo stated: “In the past 18 to twenty years, we have done so much in the education sector for several indigent students. Cases like children whose parents can’t afford school their fees are the concern of See-Joy Foundation International. “We have 387 pupils in two of our schools in Lagos. And with the support of friends and well-wishers, we will impact one million indigent children with quality education in Africa.“The foundation scholarship scheme is meant to support orphans and children living with disabilities by paying their tuition fees every term. Throwing her weight behind the See Joy scheme, Prof. Ogechi Adeola of the prestigious Lagos Business School posited that all well-meaning Africans must rise to the aid of the Foundation towards ensuring an industrialised Africa piloted by well-educated African children who today constitute some 46% of the population. POLL The Marketing-biased academic tutored parents that the African child needed to be brought up equipped with the values of self-love, self-belief, self-value, self -esteem and self-concept in order to grow up as a complete, self-confident human being without any sense of inferiority to anyone anywhere around the world. The multi-author academic, however, concurred that the modern African parents, with particular emphasis on Nigerians, need a cultural reawakening to ensure that the children do not lose touch with their rich cultural background in the course of their educational advancement. Representing the Lagos State Government at the conference, Mr. Abiola Olugbenga Olawepo re-echoed the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration’s commitment to supporting all legitimate activities aimed at bettering the educational lot of children in the state by any organisation even as he added that Lagos State is poised to make its educational system and its products compete favourably with the best of private schools around. The See Joy Foundation in conjunction with Lagos State Ministry of Education is set on Friday, May 27th to hold the 2nd edition of the Nigeria Children Award. The event to be hosted at a massive hall in NECA House, Ikeja, promises to attract no fewer than 150 children from across public schools in Lagos. Twenty pupils are expected to smile home with plaques and other award tokens for their outstanding performance in several categories.The First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu is expected to grace the occasion while Prof. Ogechi Adeola will be the speaker at the event. Pastor Gbadebo Akinyemi, the Director of Public Communications of See Joy Foundation and who anchored the conference regretted that many Nigerian leaders today rose through the ladder of free education and various scholarships to attain their current level in life only to turn round destroying the bridge for the upcoming generation after crossing the same bridge built through the vision of selfless forefathers of the country.