While lamenting the newly-intro­duced astronomically high costs of securing nominations forms for elective political positions under the Constitution by the ideological Siamese twins leading political parties, namely, the ruling APC and opposition PDP, a development which, if allowed to stand as the new normal, could effectively turn our constitutional democracy into a cash and carry-type of oligarchic government cha­raterised by a “kill and divide” governing philosophy where only stupendously rich individuals can ever hope to participate in the electioneering process. We then pointed out that “these are the clearest evidence, yet that Nigeria’s democracy has already been hijacked by State-Capturing rogue elements using the instrumentality of political par­ties to effectuate their corrupt and undem­ocratic agendas.” It cannot be said that we didn’t see all these coming. Already, the Nigeria’s de­mocracy is the most expensive in the world. Looking at the architecture of the present Constitution, there is no way we can afford to sustain the numerous offices and posi­tions established under it. It is economically significant that the United States’ govern­ment which we pretend to be copying has only eleven (11) ministers (secretaries) while we must necessarily operate at the center a minimum of thirty-six (36) ministers plus uncountable number of “Advisers”, senior and ordinary, “Assistants”, senior and ordi­nary as well as a motely crowd of “aides” and hangers-on, all draining the treasury. The obnoxiously outlandish remunera­tions “packages” attached to those public offices by Nigeria’s self-serving political class which is presently made up of mem­bers of erstwhile military administrations and their cronies who selfishly midwifed the Constitution and inaugurated it in ways that would continue to favour them for years to come – a triumphant self-rewarded war boo­ties, a perfect model of a fully captured state. That is why in spite of TSA, Nigerian MDAs and other state agencies that officially col­lect revenues on behalf of government only remit to the state’s treasury whatever is left after they have sufficiently rewarded them­selves, a “kill and divide” public accounting regime typical of politically captured states. -Advertisement- They see government as a mammoth buffet to be feasted on without thinking of how to replenish it for future generations. All that matters to them is what they can take away from the government be it legally or illegally, morally or immorally. In their perverted calculations, politics becomes a gamble, a giant kalo-kalo machine which unfailing yields usurious profits and it is that gambling mindset that led to recent per­fidious N100m nomination forms scandal. Their innate “lotto” mentality is evident in the fact that many of them are already rushing to pay the N100m nomination fee knowing that only one person will even­tually clinch the ticket because addiction to gambling is usually uncontrollable. You then ask yourself why would that be? Well, it is because politics is like a bonanza to them. In practical terms, the “return on in­vestment” is as huge as whatever they can find in the treasury which become freely accessible once they are in office. These consequences of these astronomical fiscal outlays ultimately fall on the hapless tax­payers, a development which naturally puts the sustainability of such oppressive and sinecure system to question. “To be precise, they are actually destroy­ing democracy by unduly turning internal party primaries into a huge gambling ma­chine, thereby inflicting unbearable eco­nomic burden on the citizens who would eventually be ignored. There has to be bet­ter ways to operate a government so that it does not turn into an institutional source of immiseration for the people. In this criminally organised state-captur­ing squander-mania, there are no significant differences amongst the political parties. To­gether, they have stealthily executed very heinous “state capturing” coups that have put the nation in the current punitive situ­ation in which “monkeys de work, baboons they chop.” Whereas normal governments provide public-spirited individuals the civ­ic and patriotic opportunity to serve with a view to promoting the greatest good for the greatest number, Nigerian politicians strangely see government as an open-cast gold mine to be ruthlessly pillaged. The original idea of democracy is that of service to the community in representative capacities, hence its popular definition of being a “government by the People, for the People and of the People.” But how can the Nigerian brand of democracy be “for the people” when its primary goal is to divert the resources of the commonwealth into the private pockets of those in power? POLL The cost of running Nigeria’s democracy is the highest in the world. There are several credible statistics confirming this scandal­ous reality and I am therefore surprised about the sudden sense of shock that was expressed following the fortuitous disclo­sures by Senator Shehu Sani and ex-Gov. Peter Obi regarding the outlandish and improper monetary hauls that our legisla­tors and Governors are siphoning from the treasury. Senator Sani’s famous disclosure of N13 million monthly take-home per senator in a country where the minimum wage is less than a US dollar a day is not just irrespon­sible, it is also a manifestation of grand lar­ceny callously perfected by way of “State Capture” wherein corruptly-minded indi­viduals artfully manipulate the electoral process to their own advantage and then take hold of the governing machinery and proceed to recklessly plunder and dissipate the resources of the State via seemingly le­gitimate processes such as baseless stupen­dous “officially” stipulated emoluments and criminally fixed out-of-this-world allowanc­es and other sundry illegitimate diversions of public resources. If you multiply N13 million by 109 sen­ators monthly, you will begin to see the monumental drain such stupendous sums would negatively have on the capacity of the country to accomplish any meaningful pro­ductive development after lasciviously pam­pering the politicians who are plagued by insatiable appetites for stolen public funds. It is already public knowledge that the so-called “security votes” that state governors collect monthly are actually “pocket money” with no “receipt” expected. The aggregate drain that such gargantuan payments inflict on the national economy can only lead to bankruptcy. But who cares? The most ironic aspect of this form of “State Capture” governance is the unlimited opportunity provided for public officials to plunder national resources meant for public purposes. For example, it has been calcu­lated that, in relation to the nation’s GDP, Nigerian legislators are the highest paid in the entire world, followed by some other wretchedly corrupt African countries. On the contrary, legislators in the US, Japan, Canada, etc., earn only about a third of what Nigerian legislator earns. Why would each state of the federation have as many as three senators while sim­ilar states in the United States, from where we copied the Constitution, have only two senators each? What is more, a state like Texas alone is territorially as large as all the states in southern Nigeria combined and with a GDP that is thirty times more than that of Nigeria. Does anyone still doubt the kind of wasteful leadership that Nigeria has instituted constitutionally? It just doesn’t make sense that politicians in very poor countries earn more than their counterparts in wealthy countries. It is like standing economic logic on its heads. Any­one who was in anyway involved with the fixing of such incredulous anti-people po­litical reward system should be called out for what they really are: Enemies of the People. Democracy is irredeemably discred­ited whenever kleptocratic politicians, in total disregard of the limited capacity of their nation’s economy, proceed to plunder so much for themselves at the expense of the commonwealth just because they enjoy ephemeral custodian access to public funds, exactly the same baneful mindset of armed robbers.” NB: Part of this piece was first published on 21st March 2018 entitled “Nigeria’s Un­usually Expensive Democracy (1)”