Autism spectrum disorder (ASD), or autism, is a broad term used to describe a group of neurological and developmental conditions that affect how people interact with others, communicate, learn, and behave. Autism is a highly variable neurodevelopmental disorder whose symptoms first appear during infancy or childhood and generally follow a steady course without remission. These conditions are characterized by differences and difficulty with communication and interaction with other people. People with ASD also often demonstrate restricted and repetitive interests or patterns of behavior. These are the symptoms that affect their ability to function in school, work, and other areas of life. Autistic people may be severely impaired in some respects but average, or even superior, in others. It is distinguished by a characteristic triad of symptoms: impairments in social interaction, impairments in communication, and repetitive behavior. Overt symptoms gradually begin after six months, become established by age two or three, and continue through adulthood, although often in a more muted form. Usually, ASD is diagnosed more often in boys than in girls. The number of people diagnosed has increased considerably since the 1990s, which may be partly due to increased recognition of the condition. A recent research study revealed that in Nigeria, 1 in 43 children has autism whereas globally, it is estimated that about 1 in 160 children is autistic. Saturday, April 2, 2022, was the World Autism Awareness Day. -Advertisement- Types of Autism Spectrum Disorders These conditions all fall under the range of autism spectrum disorders, and they include: Asperger’s syndrome: People with this syndrome don’t have a problem with language; they tend to score in the average or above-average range on intelligence tests. But they have social issues and a narrow scope of interests. Autistic disorder: This is what most people think of when they hear the word “autism.” It refers to social interactions, communication, and play problems in children younger than three years. Childhood disintegrative disorder: These children have typical development for at least two years and then lose some of their communication and social skills. POLL Pervasive developmental disorder (PDD or atypical autism) refers to when the child has some autistic behavior, like delays in social and communications skills, but doesn’t fit into another category. Signs and symptoms People with ASD have difficulty social communication and interaction, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. The signs and symptoms primarily include: Making little or inconsistent eye contact Appearing not to look at or listen to people who are talking Infrequently sharing interest, emotion, or enjoyment of objects or activities (including by infrequently pointing at or showing things to others) Not responding or being slow to react to one’s name or other verbal bids for attention Having difficulties with the back and forth of conversation Often talking at length about a favorite subject without noticing that others are not interested or without giving others a chance to respond Displaying facial expressions, movements, and gestures that do not match what is being said Having an unusual tone of voice that may sound sing-song or flat and robot-like. Repeating certain behaviors or having unusual behaviors, such as repeating words or phrases (a behavior called echolalia) Having a lasting intense interest in specific topics, such as numbers, details, or facts Showing overly focused interests, such as with moving objects or parts of objects Becoming upset by slight changes in a routine and having difficulty with transitions Causes and Risk Factors There is no single cause for autism. Most cases involve a complex and variable combination of genetic risks and environmental factors influencing early child development. Some of these factors include: Genetics and genetic conditions like down syndrome or Fragile X syndrome Low birth weight Diet Exposure to pesticides and phthalates Drugs like terbutaline to stop premature birth Valproic acid used to control seizures Antipsychotics and mood stabilizers Mercury poisoning The inability of the body to make proper use of vitamins and minerals Vaccine sensitivity owing to thimerosal is a common preservative in multi-dose vaccines. Diagnosis ASD is diagnosed by evaluating a person’s behavior and development. It can usually be reliably diagnosed by the age of two, and it is imperative to seek an evaluation as soon as possible. The earlier ASD is diagnosed, the sooner treatments and services can begin. An ASD diagnosis involves several developmental screenings, genetic tests, evaluations, DNA testing for genetic diseases, behavioral evaluation, visual and audio tests to rule out any issues with vision and hearing that aren’t related to ASD, and occupational therapy screening. Treatments and Therapies Treatment for ASD should begin as soon as possible after diagnosis. Early treatment for ASD is necessary as proper care and services can reduce individuals’ difficulties while helping them learn new skills and build on their strengths. Many approaches involve therapies such as: behavioral therapy play therapy occupational therapy physical therapy speech therapy Medications Behavioral, psychological, and educational interventions Prevention Pregnant women who contract rubella are at risk for miscarriage or stillbirth, and their developing babies are at risk for severe birth defects with devastating, lifelong consequences. (Congenital Rubella Syndrome, CRS can affect almost everything in the developing baby’s body. Vaccination against Rubella during pregnancy causes fewer than 1% of autism cases so it can prevent many of ASDs. Maintaining a nutritious diet and staying in good health during pregnancy. Reduction of exposure to environmental toxins. Management Applied Behavior Analysis therapy ABA Therapy uses evidence-based practices and strategies to replace socially inappropriate behaviors with behaviors that are more desirable or deemed socially valid. The long-term objective of ABA therapy is to increase behaviors that will help an individual with Autism function independently and appropriately in society. Education Educational interventions often used include applied behavior analysis (ABA), developmental models, structured teaching, speech, and language therapy, social skills therapy, occupational therapy, and cognitive-behavioral interventions in adults without intellectual disability to reduce depression, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Prognosis There is no known cure for autism. The most effective therapies involve early and intensive behavioral support. The earlier a child is enrolled in these programs, the better their outlook. Autistic people tend to face increased stress levels related to psychosocial factors, such as stigma, which may increase the rates of mental health issues in the autistic population. Also, the degree of symptoms can decrease, occasionally to the extent that people lose their diagnosis of ASD; this sometimes occurs after intensive treatment and sometimes not. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Dallas Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics. Visit: www.mkoabimbola.online for more details. Email: dr_mko_abimbola@yahoo.com