The National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), has congratulated the newly inaugurated Chairman, the Vice Chairman and other newly elected and inaugurated members of Governing Board of the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN). FWDR. C. C. Iwegbuna, National Publicity Secretary, NAGAFF, in a statement made available to Daily Independent, said the association would continue to make sacrifices for the sustenance of the CRFFN administration and management. “The emergence of CRFFN is primarily to bring all contending voices together under a regulation and control but today we may have become more divided than ever. -Advertisement- The last election may have succeeded in doing so wherein NCDMLCA and NAFFAC failed to secure an elective seat in the just concluded Council election 2022. “However, there is hope for a new beginning of CRFFN administration. It is to the knowledge of NAGAFF management that the young freight forwarders are highly worried and disturbed over breaches of the law establishing CRFFN administration. “We can only but encourage them to keep calm and go about their business peacefully. This is because whatever that has a beginning must have an end one day. “Apparently, it may have become an honest mistake on the part of the National Assembly to domicile CRFFN under the Transportation Ministry for supervision. Regret to note that the first Council members may have played into the hands of the Transportation Ministry holding themselves as civil servants.” He asserted that under the circumstance, the court declaration that CRFFN is an agency of the government was misconstrued by the transportation ministry. POLL However, he added, this declaration is being challenged at the appeal court by some members of NAGAFF. “The good news is that it is alleged that the leadership of the Transportation Ministry may be getting worried as to the court pronouncement whereby Mr. President is not involved in the appointment of the governing board members and so, what makes CRFFN an agency of the government when Mr. president is not the one that appoints them. “It is a trite law that the leadership of the Council must be through elective processes amongst the Council members. “Here we are, the Hon. Minister of Transportation may have continued to appoint the Chairman and Vice of the Council contrary to the provisions of the Act. “We regret to note that a matter which is pending at the appeal court challenging the competences of the lower court declaration that CRFFN is an agency of government is being presented for amendments at the national assembly”.