Mariam is a fresh graduate who has just gotten her first job. The job has everything you can dream of—a leading international brand, great pay, opportunities to work in any of their offices, a great mentoring programme, and lots more. Mariam is ecstatic and cannot wait to get started. She has come to you for advice. What does she need to know to succeed on the job? Use the principles in this chapter and provide her with sound counsel. Whether this is your first job like Mariam or a veteran, the principles we will share over the next several weeks will help you make the best of it. The first question any employee needs to answer is, “Why was I employed?” This question strikes at the heart of expectations—you were employed to do a job; your first responsibility is to clarify those expectations. -Advertisement- Sometimes people focus on other things and forget the primary reason they were employed. They are like a soldier in an old parable who was responsible for guarding a criminal. He was told explicitly, “Guard this man! If he goes missing for any reason, your life will be exchanged for his life.” You would think that someone given that charge would take it very seriously. But he became distracted, and the man disappeared. According to him, “While I was busy here and there, the man disappeared.” Many people are like the soldier—they are busy with other things, and they forget their primary assignment. Then they wonder why life is unfair to them when they are punished. At the heart of effectiveness is knowing what is required of you—for example, guard this prisoner, grow the deposit, increase profitability. Everything successful people do revolves around this knowledge. Their effectiveness is not a function of their personalities or leadership styles but a function of knowing what is expected of them. Then they modify their leadership styles and their modes of working to suit the expectations and jobs-to-be-done. This first principle states that effectiveness, whether as a leader or an employee, is impossible without clarifying your roles and responsibilities. Remember our four-part component of work? If you do not understand the concept of standards or expectations, then output means nothing. Succeeding at work begins with clarifying expectations and taking responsibility for them. POLL Responsibilities or Results Areas Your responsibility is your assigned task, while results point to the satisfactory completion of the task from the end user’s perspective. Let’s take a new gardener, for example. His responsibility is to take care of the garden, and the results expected from him are spelt out by the words to tend and to guard the garden. Your first job might be as a doctor, lawyer, banker, chef, teacher, and so on. It makes no difference. The same principle applies—you are supposed to attend to your patients, clients, customers, or students. At a fundamental level, to tend means to take care of something. It also means to cultivate and manage the operations of something. Put another way, tending a garden means making it better—more beautiful and valuable. Key Lesson: Your organisation is your garden. Irrespective of your title and role, your primary responsibility is to make your workspace better and more valuable. It is to make life easier and memorable for your colleagues and customers; to make the person who gave you the job say, “I made the right choice.” When people do not understand the simple concept of tending, their fields become overgrown, their skills obsolete, and their products irrelevant, resulting in poverty. We are all managers of our gardens irrespective of our titles. A driver manages the car; a doctor manages her patients; a teacher manages her students. We are all managers, but do we all manage well? Do we tend our gardens well? Ask To understand the concept of tending, ask yourself the following questions: • Why was I employed? • What am I paid to do? • What am I responsible for? Never confuse busyness with productivity. Busyness is measured by the clock, productivity by the result. It is not enough to be busy; everyone is. The soldier in our example was. But not everyone is productive. Therefore, the critical question we should ask ourselves is, “Busy doing what?” Successful people know what is expected of them—by whom, when, and how. They are clear about their roles, responsibilities, and expectations. In clarifying expectations, remember that no job should have more than three to five major expectations. If a job has more than five expectations, then there is something wrong with the job design. For example, the expectation is straightforward for most football coaches: win the league, qualify for the champions league or Europe, or avoid relegation. Every other thing is secondary. To meet their major objective, the coaches have to choose their style of play, study their opponents, decide which players to use per game, train and develop the players, and so on. But all these activities are geared towards their one big objective. That’s the score that matters. This article is an excerpt from Chapter Four of my latest book, Success At Work: A Practical Guide for Succeeding at Work.