The General Hospital, Ijede, has joined its counterparts across the globe to celebrate the Year 2022 World Family Doctor Day. Speaking on the importance of the Day, a Consultant Family Physician with the General Hospital, Ijede, Dr. Oluwaseun Ayodeji Jegede, described a Family Doctor as a Physician who specialises in Family Medicine after completing the required course of study. He explained that Family Medicine is a medical speciality within primary care that provides continuing and comprehensive healthcare for the individual and family across all ages, genders, diseases and parts of the body. According to him, the vast knowledge, training and experience garnered over the years as well as the course of study makes it suitable for the family doctor to give proper and adequate care to people irrespective of their gender, age or disease. While affirming the family doctor’s approach to healthcare as being holistic, Dr. Jegede maintained that the Physician must be able to deliver continuous and comprehensive care to his patients, adding that he usually employs his knowledge of personal and medical history through collaborative efforts with other specialities while leveraging on appropriate technology for the best outcomes. His words: “A family doctor sees his patients as a complete human being rather than just another bundle of disease; it is for him to take adequate and proper care of the total being of the patient psychologically, socially, culturally, spiritually and emotionally from cradle to the grave”. “Family doctors remain the best health advocate and best suited to orchestrate excellent healthcare services that will cater for individuals’ health challenges and also help them navigate through”, he stated. Dr. Jegede averred that the World Family Day was inaugurated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to bring attention to the contributions of family doctors globally, to recognise them, increase their morale, and highlight important issues relating to family doctors and the work they perform in supporting healthcare for people around the world. The theme for this year’s Family Doctor Day is “Family Doctors, Always there to Care”.