***Palace Not Involved – Deji’s Spokesman AKURE – Hoodlums on Tuesday invaded Medaville Housing Estate, attacking workers at the construction site, while property worth millions of Naira were destroyed. Sources disclosed that some armed hoodlums invaded the Federal Government Housing Scheme, which is under construction at Alagbaka area of Akure, and started shooting sporadically. -Advertisement- They were said to have demolished some of the structures and fittings including overhead storage tanks at the site during the invasion without asking for money like street urchins otherwise known as areas usually do. One of the workers attacked at the site was said to have passed out when beaten by the hoodlums. Speaking on the incident, the Managing Director of Medaville Building & Construction Co. Ltd, Otunba Ademola Akin-Benson, alleged the Deji of Akure kingdom, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, of sponsoring the attackers. But the Deji’s spokesman, Michael Adeyeye has distanced the palace from the invasion. Akin-Benson alleged that: “Several times, Deji has come here to beat people. Two weeks ago, he sent his boys to kidnap some of our workers here. We reported the incident to the police and appropriate authorities. POLL “They were here on the 18th of this month with two motorbikes, beating and harassing the workers; destroying many building materials as well.” Akin-Benson explained that the land on which the estate is constructed belongs Federal Government and ceded to Medaville Building & Construction Co. Ltd to develop. He pointed to a portion of the estate that’s under litigation with the monarch, lamenting that over N50m has been lost to incessant attacks on the estate by miscreants. Akin-Benson said: “We are in court. My lawyers have filed Section 49 against him which he always runs away. “He has been served but trying to dodge it; it is always like this. We will not take any law into our hands. We will continue to pursue the case to the highest level. “?We are doing this in order to ease housing problems in Ondo State. What they did this morning was a disturbance of the peace of the community.” But Spokesman to the Deji of Akure Kingdom, Michael Adeyeye, in a swift response to the allegation said the “Palace is surprised by such unfounded allegation.” Michael said: “You know the Deji is a complete gentleman who believes strongly in dialogue and the rule of law. He is never a violent man and neither does he believe in such. “It was Otunba Benson that went to hire thugs and his refusal to pay them their fee led to crisis and destruction witnessed at the site. He is only trying to point accusing fingers rather blame himself for the woes he brought upon himself.” The monarch’s spokesman confirmed that there’s a dispute on five hectares of land within the estate which belongs to Akure Kingdom. He said: “There is a disputed five hectares of land which belongs to Akure, the court had asked him not to work on the disputed area but only on the approved 15 hectares. So, we expect him to abide by the decision of the Court over the matter. “So, the palace have no hand in the in-fight that ensued between the thugs he engaged on the land. “Akure will never do anything that will disrupt it’s peace. We want development and expansion, we will not do anything to the contrary. “The man in question should check himself and desist from this cheap blackmail. We urge him to see Akure as a peaceful land that is very accommodative.”