***Promises To Make Health Care Services Free, Give Education Its Rightful Place BENIN – Former Senate President and one of the frontline presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP), Dr. Bukola Saraki has promised to take Nigeria to a higher level, starting with restructuring of the country, if elected president in 2023. Dr. Saraki who made the promise while meeting with Edo PDP national delegates in Benin City, the Edo State capital said, he was in Benin to seek the support of the delegates to rescue Nigeria from the present situation, insisting that the 2023 election should be seen by all Nigerians as an exercise to effect the desired change that would bail the nation out of the current quagmire. -Advertisement- He said Nigerians need a courageous and experience person who knows the issues, what to do and what is required to fix the country for the better. For four years I was the Senate president, nothing the presidency didn’t do to remove me as Senate President but I survive because I stood for the integrity of the integrity of the National Assembly, Nigeria and what is right. I survived because I am a team player and I was on the side of the people. ” It is important that we have a courageous leader to take important decision, we need a strong leader that can restructure and unify the country. I am the bridge between the north and south and I will unify the country. He further declared, “2023 is a defining moment for Nigeria and cannot afford to just vote anybody as President, Nigerians need somebody who can rescue Nigeria as a nation from becoming a failed country. “2023 elections that are coming, are going to be a defining moment for this country. It is an election that we can’t afford just to put anybody. In this world, there are four types of nations, there are strong nations, weak nations, failing nations and a failed nation. In 2015, we were defined as weak nation but now we are moving towards a failing nation. POLL He said he has demonstrated the experience, capacity and what it takes to fix Nigeria, as a governor, chairman Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) as well as a senator and Senate President. “I am here to seek your support to rescue Nigeria, the 2023 election is an election we can not afford to toy with. We can not afford to miss it. “We need a president that understands the issues. We need a president that knows what to do to make the nation work again, the level of unemployment is 50% among the youths. 80% of our earnings are used to service loans. Nigeria needs somebody that has the capacity, the skills to rescue Nigeria. “When I was governor in Kwara state, we made some investment in health, education, and agriculture, the model is still being used today. If I have the chance, I will replicate it in Nigeria. “Secondly, I want to restructure Nigeria, but we need a strong leader to restructure Nigeria. You can not restructure Nigeria by executive order, you can restructure Nigeria by legislative order. “I am the person that have the experience, who has been the head of the National Assembly. Some of my colleagues are here, during my days as the president of the Senate, and like I said earlier there was nothing the executive did not do to undermine the integrity of the National Assembly but we resisted and stood our grounds. “Some of my colleagues then are here campaigning for me, because I am a team player. When I become the president, we shall work together.” He said Saraki also promised to give education its rightful place because no nation can move forward without giving education its rightful place, adding, “as an educated man, if elected president in 2023 I will never dilly dally with the issue of education” , In the health sector, being a medical doctor, I will ensure that we have free health service for everybody, 50 percent in the first two years”, he said. Reacting, the Edo PDP Chairman, Dr Tony Aziegbemi, said Nigeria needs a man with the courage of Dr Bukola Saraki to move the country out of the present economic and security challenges. He said, delegates from the state are in support of Saraki’s aspirations.