If reports from 90 Min are to be believed, Manchester United are set to go after Konrad Laimer in the summer, in the recommendation of current interim manager and future consultant Ralf Rangnick. The German tactician knows the player well and wants him to become a part of Erik ten Hag’s setup at Old Trafford next season. Laimer’s current contract at RB Leipzig expires at the end of next season. It has led to widespread speculation over his future, with many expecting the Bundesliga giants to cash in on their star midfielder this summer. Manchester United, though, are not alone in the pursuit, as Laimer has become a subject of interest for their Premier League rivals Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur. A central midfielder by trade, Laimer has established himself as one of the best in the Bundesliga due to his consistent performances over the years. Having featured in well over 150 competitive matches for Leipzig, he has played a crucial role in helping Die Roten Bullen establish themselves as arguably the second-best club in Germany. -Advertisement- Although injuries have hampered his progress at Leipzig, Laimer has been in an excellent vein of form since the turn of the year. He has been involved in eight goals in 25 Bundesliga matches this season and his contributions have been critical in helping Leipzig make a swift turnaround under the leadership of Domenico Tedesco. But Laimer’s spell at Leipzig could soon come to an end, with Tottenham among the clubs eyeing a move for the Austrian international. With Tanguy Ndombele, Harry Winks and Giovani Lo Celso likely to be offloaded, the Lilywhites are in the market for midfield reinforcements this summer, as Antonio Conte looks to find competition for Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg and Rodrigo Bentancur. Arsenal, meanwhile, are looking for a new midfielder that can compete with Thomas Partey and Granit Xhaka. Laimer fits the bill well for both the north London giants due to his aggression, work ethic and the ability to make driving runs in the final third, making him a tailor-made fit for the Premier League. However, Manchester United certainly have the upper hand in this contest thanks to the influence of Rangnick. The German tactician, who is set to become Laimer’s international coach later this year, knows the player well and could convince him to join the ranks at Old Trafford next season, as the midfielder looks to take the next step in his career.