LAGOS – Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a frontline presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  and former Vice President has berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) for causing woes in the country, stressing that the biggest challenge that the ruling party has caused in the country is disunity. Atiku was in Lagos State on Friday to seek the support of Lagos members of the PDP during the forthcoming primary election of the party. He said, ” We are living witnesses of the challenges that the All Progressives Congress  (APC) has caused us in this country. The biggest challenge that APC has brought is disunity. We have not been as divided as this before even during the war. -Advertisement- “We have a responsibility to send the party away but we must be united to ne able to do that. Lagos PDP  has been in disunity for many years. I appeal to Lagos PDP to bring about unity in the party. I appeal to the eldest to please ensure unity in the Lagos State chapter of the party so that we can take over the State. “I look forward to working with you to reposition Lagos State PDP. We don’t want Lagos to be under one family. We want Lagos to belong to Lagosians. We should avoid making the same mistake that we have made over the years. I will continue to work with you until we achieve success. Atiku added, “At various times I have been associated with Lagos politics. I enjoyed the support that I have got from Lagos State people because they believe that I am one of them.” Chief Bode George, former Deputy National Chairman of PDP,  who hosted the former Vice President and his entourage commended Atiku for his detailed knowledge of the country and why the country needs a leader that is competent, experienced and civilised to lead the country. He maintained that the Lagos PDP will work very hard to ensure that the party is united and will be in a good position to take over the state in 2023. POLL He said, “We know that you know the country and the country knows you very well. The unity that you requested for Lagos State PDP is a must. It is going to be one last battle of Berlin. We used to have interlopers who were causing problems at the party. They believe that they know Lagos more than the owners of Lagos but all that will come to an end. “You spoke very well because you know the challenges that the country has. At this point, Nigeria needs a competent, experienced and civilised person to take over leadership of the country to have a united and indivisible Nigeria,” Bode George said. Among the entourage of Alhaji Atiku were Dr. Raymond Dokpesi Senator Dino Melaye, Anambra State gubernatorial candidate of the PDP in the last governorship election, Dr. Valantine Ozigbo and a host of other PDP chieftains from across the country.