The standard bearer of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, Engr. Kemi Elebute-Halle  has described the exit of her running mate, Idowu Afuye to All  Progressives Congress (APC) as good riddance to bad rubbish. Elebute-Halle, in her official reaction to the high profile defection  described her estranged running mate as a clog in the wheel of progress of the ADP. The ADP chieftain explained that, even though, the guidelines  of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and new Electoral Act made  it practically impossible for a running mate to quit  in that manner, adding that her deputy has not informed the party officially of his purported  defection. -Advertisement- Elebute-Halle said, “Up till now, it is a speculation. My deputy governorship candidate is yet to formally leave the party. He only quit the party but not resigned. We are yet to be informed about this. ” Whatever he has done, it is deemed to be done under duress and for political reason. Those who pushed him into it, failed to recognise the fact that, the moment one is enlisted in the INEC published list, there is no going back. “Afuye still remains deputy governorship candidate of the party until the electoral act decides otherwise. I hope he will trace his steps back to ADP. If he really want to leave, he mist follow the process as dictated by the electoral law. I am sure APC is aware of this. She boasted that ADP as a party would miss her estranged Deputy stressing that  “Afuye brought only himself to ADC and left only with himself. He never brought anybody to the party and nobody went with him”. “So, if it is not politically expedient and permissible, he will not go scot free, if not the status quo remains”. POLL The ADP governorship candidate narrated how Afuye had plotted  to undermine the ADP progress, even in his Local Government  adding that the party hierarchy had kept him(Afuye) in quarantine before he finally announce his exit from the party. The female politician also said that the kind of attention and reception accorded her estranged deputy ,who she described as a “paper  weight”  by the ruling  showed that the APC was a desperate and sinking party,struggling to stay afloat. According to her ,ADP is fast becoming a household name in the state, adding that   the growing popularity of ADP ahead of the poll has become a threat to other parties, including the APC. Elebute-Halle who also  revealed that APC had approached  her to join party ,however maintained that  she had invested so much time and resources into the race such that there is no place for being a sell out. “I will never betray the confidence my teeming  supporters repose in me, even if I will be the only one to vote for myself on the day of election “. While stating that people believed women deserve to occupy the position after the creation of the state 24 years ago, she said there is no form of propaganda that can stop her. The ADP candidate said no political party in the state, not even the ruling party has been able to do what ADP has done across the state in the  last three months. “In the last eleven weeks, we have been able to traverse 147 out of the 177 available wards in the state to canvass for the votes of the people. “This is beyond anybody buying people conscience through vote buying. It is to demonstrate to the people what democracy should be. “You don’t have to coerce people to buying into your project but they will ordinary accept your project if it will meet their needs”, Elebute-Halle said.