The Lagos State Ministry of Youths and Social Development in partnership with Literacy Integration and Formal Education (LIFE) Foundation and Altrad Prezicon Limited graduated 41 rehabilitees at the Ikorodu Rehabilitation and Training Centre, Majidun. The event which is the first of its kind since the establishment of the centre in 1984 drew many to tears as rehabilitees share their experiences of being mentally challenged and how the centre stabilised and empowered them with income sustaining skills through the support of LIFE Foundation and Altrad Prezicon Ltd. Representing the Ministry the Director for Administration and Human Resources Mr. Olugboyega Diran congratulated the rehabilitees charging them to make the best use of the skills they have acquired at the centre, in a bid to avoid a relapse. -Advertisement- President of LIFE Foundation Mrs. Elvira Salleras said that hope is restored to the rehabilitees who were once rejected by society, family and friends. She stated that the foundation has put structures in place to properly integrate the rehabilitees into the society, with due follow up so that they can share their stories of success a year from now. Managing Director of Altrad Prezicon Ltd a French offshore construction and management company, Mrs. Maya Omar added that supporting LIFE Foundation and the Rehabilitation Centre is part of the organisation’s corporate social responsibility initiative and they plan on doing more with other rehabilitation centres across Nigeria. Start off tools and certificates of participation were given to the graduands as an encouragement to start life again on a clean slate in a bid to avoid begging and a relapse which is a frequent occurrence in the centre said Mr. Diran. The centre also caters for children of the destitute and the mentally challenged picked up on the road or referred to the centre by family members. These children are taken through a school system in the centre and are only taken to orphanage homes if their parents cannot be stabilised. The 41 graduands expressed satisfaction showing preparedness to be fully integrated into the society during their 5 months of skill acquisition training in catering, horticulture and fashion design amongst others. POLL Photo caption: Representatives of the Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Representatives of a the Rehabilitation and Training Centre, President of LIFE foundation Mrs. Elviras Salleras and her team and Managing Director Altrad Prezicon Ltd, Maya Omar and her team with some rehabilitee gradauands.