Unions in the Nigerian aviation industry have fingered the management of Aero Contractors in a ploy to destabilise and liquidate the airline. The unions, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) and the Air Transport Senior Staff Services Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), regretted that the fortunes of the two airlines under the receivership of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Aero Contractors and Arik Air, have continued to dwindle over the years. Comrades Ocheme Aba and Frances Akinjole, the General Secretary of NUATE and Deputy General Secretary, ATSSSAN, respectively, in a press briefing on Monday at the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos, said that it was high time the National Assembly intervened in the conditions of the two airlines in order to save them from total collapse and the claws of AMCON. -Advertisement- The duo also charged the Ministries of Aviation and Labour & Employment to initiate an intervention that could save both companies. They insisted that the planned downsizing of 40 percent of the total workforce was a wrong move by Aero Contractors’ management. This is just as the unions have accused the management of Aero Contractors of planning to reduce 40% of its staff strength without talking of redundancy even as the company was yet to complete redundancy payment of those it asked to stay home since 2016. The unions said that the planned workers to be retrenched should be declared redundant by the airline’s management. Aba debunked the claim of Aero’s management that its aircraft were too old to fly, stressing that it was an attempt to force the airline out of existence. Aba alleged ulterior motives by some hidden forces who he claimed engineered a phony lease contract with one 5A’s where the airline operated the lease at a total loss of N35,000 each irrespective of the category of fare charged. POLL The unions also alleged a case of self-sabotage, questioning the rationale behind seconding of one Mr. Charles Johnson Arumeme from Arik to Aero, purporting that as a commercial manager, he drew up a schedule granting the leased aircraft all Aero Contractors juicy routes, thereby affecting the airlines revenue, which led to its inability to pay staff salaries for about three months. Aba said: “The CEO’s assertion that Aero’s planes are too old to fly are completely false, even if aided by internal misinformation. The fact as we know it is that Aero operates the B737 classic generation, the oldest of which just clocked 30 years. “This class of aircraft are able to operate up to 85,000 cycles, or 100,000 flight hours as approved by the manufacturer, Boeing. None of these aircraft in Aero’s fleet has operated up to half of the approved figures. We stand to be proved wrong. While it is true that older aircraft do have higher maintenance costs, it must be borne in mind that the airline owns an approved maintenance & repair organisation (MRO) with elite engineers in its fold.” Meanwhile, the management of Aero Contractors has rebuffed all the allegations levelled against it by aviation unions, saying that the present predicament of the carrier was not novel to the global airline sub-sector. Aero in a statement by its management on Monday, described the allegation by the unions of attempt to rundown the airline as wild and unfounded. The management wondered why the unions kept quiet “when things were rosy,” but are quick to castigate the management during challenges. The statement hinted that the entire staff of the airline knew the challenges facing the airline industry, accusing them of always in a hurry to compromise confidential information to the public and make it an issue of discussion. The statement added: “All the allegations about the managing director on House of 5A’s and Charles Arumemi Johnson are unfounded. Charles, is a very competent staff of Arik Air owned by AMCON, which equally owns Aero Contractors; therefore there is no conflict of interest. He is instrumental to the recently launched Aero portal which has given the site a face lift and made more user friendly compared to the previous website. “On the House of 5A’s, every partnership was done with the aim of improving the revenues of the airline, particularly in relation to our unserviceable equipment and ensuring standard customer service. The question is what was our revenue before, during and after the exit of House of 5As? They should please respond. ‘’We are conscious of the challenges we are facing and have been prudent with our expenses, and doing our best to take care of staff welfare. We urge the staff and unions to desist from this attitude and support the company to overcome its challenges.”