LAGOS – The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management of Nigeria (CIPSMN) has taxed the newly inducted members of the institute to eschew corrupt practices that could tarnish and rubbish the ethics of the profession in public procurement. The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of CIPSMN, Alhaji Mohammed Aliyu, gave the charge over the weekend during the 2022 Group A induction of 141 new members of the institute who are from both public and private sectors. Warning the inductees to adhere strictly to the ethics and ethos guiding the practice of public procurement, the Registrar told them to shun all forms of professional misconduct such as dishonesty, favouritism, bribery and corruption, colluding, inflation of contract figures and so forth either as government or private employees. -Advertisement- He said the institute would not hesitate to withdraw the certificate of any member found wanting in the professional discharge of procurement functions and responsibilities. “My dear inductees, the challenges you are about to face outside this hall and in the course of practising your profession is quite enormous. Therefore, you should try as much as possible to make use of the knowledge you have acquired during your classroom sessions in handling your assignment or tasks for the benefit of your organisation so that the credit can come to the institute for giving you the quality professional knowledge required to contribute positively to the realisation of the corporate objectives of the organization,” he told the inductees. Given the enormous growth and potential of the procurement role as well as the value for money policy in the country, Aliyu advised that government, at all levels in Nigeria should come together and make the procurement role a priority or obligatory in all sectors of governance with respect to professionalism. He emphasised that procurement should not be made an all- comers affair and called for a distinction between professional procurement personnel and other specialists that are usurping their responsibilities of trained personnel. He commended few state governments that have established the Bureau of Public Procurement, saying such a step would to a large extent enhance checks and balances in government operations. POLL Earlier, the President of the institute, Ado Jubrin, congratulated the inductees, urging them to go all out and demonstrate their newly acquired knowledge and skills to contribute more meaningfully to the procurement profession and the economy at large.