SUNDAY APAH AND MICHAEL OLADAPO ASABA – The Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, on Thursday in Asaba, the state capital, restated his early assurance unequivocally that he has not endorsed any aspirant for the categories of elective positions across the state. Governor Okowa who made this known while responding to questions during the Quarterly Media Interaction at Government House, Asaba, Delta State, said, “Anyone who said I have endorsed is doing so to gain popularity.” -Advertisement- He said, “Majority of the people that are using my name, sometimes three persons running for the same position in the same place will claim that I have endorsed them, it’s part of the politics that people play. “The fact is that I have not endorsed any aspirant; by the grace of God, we will work towards free and fair primary election. People should work hard and we will provide level playing ground,” he added. On the allegation that he has hijacked the state delegates list, he debunked the allegation, saying there is nothing of such. He explained that before the election of ad hoc delegates, a meeting of all the aspirants and selected leaders was summoned at Unity Hall, Asaba, where they agreed for consensus to elect the ad hoc delegates across all wards in the state. “That agreement was carried out across the over 200 wards in the state. Where we have issues, the state executives prevailed. So on 30th of April, congresses for the delegates were held across all wards in the state. POLL “It was some other persons who tried to hijack the delegate list against the agreement of 5th April, 2022, but they were not able to hijack the process,” he said. He assured that the PDP political family is still intact, contrary to insinuations. Also speaking on the ongoing jostling for the party’s presidential ticket like most of his fellow governors, Okowa admitted pressures have been mounted on him also by political bigwigs in the party to pick a ticket for Presidency. “Whatever you are seeing right now is politics, and politics has to be played. There is no division in Delta PDP. “I do not think I am fully prepared for it and I cannot take that kind of race. I cannot just throw myself into a race unnecessarily. I am a calculative person, so I would not enter a race I am not prepared for. “It is too late to purchase a form from PDP… only if you want me to buy the Presidential ticket elsewhere,” he stressed.