Former Minister of Transportation and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has described himself as the most qualified of all the presidential aspirants because he knows the problems of the country and has the capacity to solve them if he emerges as President in the 2023 general election. Top on the challenges bedevilling Nigeria is the issue of insecurity Amaechi said adding that he is capable and prepared to deploy his wealth of experience over the years as Speaker and Governor of Rivers state and as Minister in solving the problems. Amaechi made the declaration during his short consultative meeting with the Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello, the delegates and supporters of the ruling APC in Niger state, insisting that the security situation in Rivers state when he was Governor was as bad as what is happening in Niger today but he was able to restore normalcy to the state. Promising that he is ready to tackle the security problems of Nigeria headlong if elected, Amaechi said, “I know what you are suffering in Niger state, I was governor of Rivers state when they were kidnapping two months old children, and I never slept until everybody slept. Former Chief of Army Staff Gen. Buratai is not here, he would have told you the story”. Recalling some of their escapades that brought crime and criminalities to the barest minimum in Rivers state, Amaechi said, “Buratai, myself and the former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Suleiman Abba ask them, we used to chase criminals inside the bush. I remember one day I was chasing criminals with Gen. Sarkin Yaki Bello (then Commander of the Joint Task Force in the Niger Delta)”, “We were running and he stopped and asked me, ‘Your Excellency, are you wearing bulletproof vest?’ I said, why are you asking, and he said ‘what if they shoot you,’ and I asked him, are you wearing one?’ He said no, and I asked ‘what if they shoot you.’ Within six months, we were able to bring down insecurity in Rivers state”. On his contribution to Niger state when he was Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi said, “As Minister for Transport, today, the contract for Baro inland port awarded, the contract for a rail line to go from Baro to Minna also awarded. The Emir told me that the contractor has visited him to say he wants to start work”.  Apart from his vast experience having served and delivered as Speaker, Governor, Minister and Director General of Campaign for two successful Presidents, there exists a difference between him and other aspirants, a fact, Amaechi said has given him an edge and as a better-experienced politician and a people’s person than others.   The former Minister added, “Another difference between me and them is that I am a politician, they are not. The difference is that I can walk to you and I will talk, discuss with you. I can connect easily with people. I wasn’t born into a rich family. My father was a poor man”. “The only English my mother knows how to speak in pidgin English. I wasn’t born with silver spoon. I ate Garri three times a day, and I still eat Garri three times a day till today, so I know poverty”, Amaechi further told the APC supporters.  Amaechi also recalled how he stood and supported the candidature of President Muhamadu Buhari, adding, “Now is the time for the people of the north and all Nigerians to stand by me as I did for the country when he supported the emergence of Buhari without looking at whether he comes from the north or south”.  “When everybody was fighting me, saying ‘he’s supporting a northern candidate, he’s supporting a Hausa/Fulani candidate, I remained steadfast because to me, I was supporting a Nigerian candidate, now is your turn to support me”. “Payback, the delegates chorused in response.  Responding, Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello asked the delegates if they were satisfied with Amaechi who had earlier visited the Emir of Minna, and his submissions and the APC supporters all responded, ‘Yes!