The troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) on Sunday rescued two kidnap victims; a man, Jude Orune and his pregnant wife from the hands of their abductors in a remote forest in Sengev council ward of Guma Local Government Area (LGA) of Benue State. According to some locals who spoke to Daily Independent, the duo were kidnapped at about 5:30 pm on Sunday by their abductors who took them far into the hinterland before they were rescued by the military spike operation. The locals explained that soon as Orune and his wife were abducted, they sent a distress call to the troops deployed to Agasha in Guma LGA, adding that the quick intervention of the troops saved the day. One of the locals, Orbunde Tarhemba told us that the bandits engaged the troops in an exchange of gunfire, but eventually took to their heels, haven been overwhelmed by the firepower of the troops, leaving behind their victims. Similarly, troops deployed to Gbise, Katsina-Ala LGA of the state during one of its patrols last weekend killed three bandits at Hundu-Ado community in Mbatyula council ward of the LGA. We gathered that the troops had responded to a distress call on the activities of suspected herders cum bandits that have been terrorising the area. The troop had ensued in pursuit of the bandits and neutralised three of them in the process and also recovered some number of weapons, which could not be ascertained at the time of compiling this report. The troops in collaboration with their counterparts in Taraba state had later extended their patrol to Kashimbila in Takum LGA of the state, a border town with Benue and Gbise conducted a joint patrol in Waaya, Yaaz, and Turan in Kwande LGA of Benue state. POLL Competent sources in the military told us that the troops “came in contact with armed bandits and herdsmen”, at a makeshift camp who bowed to the “superior firepower of the troops and fled with various degrees of gunshot wounds, living behind one dead body.” The bandits fled and also left behind a 15-year-old, Yusuf Koriya who was captured by the troops and handed over to the police. Accordingly, the troops set ablaze the makeshift camp of the bandits and recovered 4 cutlasses, and one knife among other dangerous weapons. Efforts to get the Benue State Command of the Nigeria Police to confirm the arrest of the youngster proved abortive as the number of the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Sewuese Anene was switched off.