Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State governor, on Wednesday, sub­mitted the Expres­sion of Interest and Nomina­tion Forms for his re-election on the platform of the All Pro­gressives Congress (APC) to the party leadership in Abuja. Abiodun arrived at the venue around 3:15p.m amid pomp and pageantry, waving flags and singing songs in praise of the governor who is seeking a second term in office. According to a statement by Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary to the gover­nor, who submitted the forms to party officials at the Inter­national Conference Centre, Abuja, the governor was ac­companied by a large crowd, which included party stal­warts, elder statesmen and women, national assembly members, cabinet members, political associates, and sup­porters, among others. -Advertisement- Abiodun, after submitting the nomination form, said that with the support from the masses, he was confident of victory during the March 11, 2023, governorship elections. He added that his admin­istration is committed to the delivery of real dividends of democracy in all aspects of life to all citizens of the Gate­way State. Somorin quoted Abiodun as saying that he is commit­ted to providing qualitative governance to all residents of Ogun state. According to the state­ment, the governor said: “To­day, I formally submitted my nomination and expression of interest forms to our party leadership. “For the avoidance of doubt, I am running for a second term in office, and I have announced that I will be running with my deputy, Engr. (Mrs) Noimot Salako Oyedele. POLL “We are running on the re­cords of our achievements in the last three years. We have been open, transparent, inclu­sive, accountable and brought dividendsof democracytoevery nook and cranny of Ogun State. “We have put in place a ro­bust economic agenda that is encapsulated in our ISEYA (Infrastructure, Social Wel­fare and Welfare and Well­being; Education, Youth Em­powerment and Agriculture) developmental agenda and it has propelled all the various interventions that we’ve had in Ogun State. “Despite COVID-19 and its constraints, we achieved landmark achievements across all sections for which we have received recognition globally. It gave us the oppor­tunity to redouble our efforts and ensure that people can feel us meaningfully in all ar­eas. We shall not rest on our oars. The future of the next generation is the foundation we are laying. All good hands must be on deck”.