Former Kogi state Commissioner for Information, Kingsley Fanwo has accepted the results of the House of Representatives primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Yagba federal constituency of Kogi state. According to the results declared by Hon. Ibrahim Isiaka, the APC Returning Officer for Yagba Federal Constituency, Engr. Folorunsho Olafemi, the son of a former Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly, polled 76 delegate votes to defeat Fanwo who polled 72 votes. Both Fanwo and Olafemi are from Mopamuro local government area of the state. -Advertisement- According to the returning officer in a video sighted by Daily independent, four contestants participated in the exercise and their results are Elijah Joseph 6 votes; Dele Obiniyi 16 votes; Honourable Folorunsho Olafemi 76 votes and Hon.. Kingsley Fanwo who scored 72″. He said ” Honourable Folorunsho Olafemi, having scored the highest votes, defeating his fellow contestants is hereby declared the winner of this exercise”. However when contacted, Fanwo described reports that he lost the primary as fake news. He said he scored 72 votes while Olafemi had 70. “Disregard the fake news. I won by 72 votes to Olafemi’s 70 votes” he said. In a statement, the Folorunsho Olafemi Campaign Organisation urged Governor Yahaya Bello and the APC leadership to call Fanwo to order. POLL “It has come to our attention that Hon. Kingsley Fanwo, an aspirant at the just concluded primary election of the APC for the Yagba Federal Constituency of House of Representatives, having scored the total votes of 72, is parading himself on various social platforms as the winner”. “It is unequivocally clear that Engr. Folorunsho Olafemi is the winner of the just concluded primaries with the total vote of 76 as against that of the above stated aspirant”. “We therefore call on the leadership of the party at all levels, especially His Excellency, Governor Yahaya Bello and other stakeholders to ensure the protection and preservation of the mandate willingly given to Engr. Folorunsho Olafemi by the people in the interest and spirit of fairness, justice and equity”. “It is important at this time to preserve the victory of Engr. Folorunsho Olafemi, as tension is being heightened as a result of the fake news being circulated by the supporters of Hon Fanwo. This is to avoid breakdown of law and order in the Constituency”. “This election has been won and lost without an iota of ambiguity, we therefore call on other aspirants to join hands with Engr. Folorunsho Olafemi to build the Yagba of our dreams, as against self declaration and peddling of fake results which has no place in law”. Later, Fanwo in a statement said he has accepted the outcome of the result and promised to join hands with the winner to secure victory for the APC. “After the claims and counter claims of yesterday, the party has upheld the result as announced by the Returning Officer. As a disciplined party man, I accept the decision and also congratulate the winner and all that participated in the process. We won in both Mopamuro and Yagba West. I thank their leaders. We lost heavily in Yagba East. I thank their leaders”. “In all of these, I reserve a special place in my heart for a special brother, Special Adviser to the Governor on Youth and Students’ Affairs. You are the unseen hero. I wouldn’t want my supporters to be disappointed. It was a good fight and our heads are up there. We are proud of the result we recorded despite all that transpired”. “ My conviction to contest was borne out of the fact that Amuro should produce the next House of Representatives Member in the spirit of fairness and justice. We have no regret for that decision. With the primaries over, our party must focus on healing and Reconciliation. Once again, I thank you all. All of us won and we will continue to be a big family”.