IBADAN – The former Honorable representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Abiodun Olasupo has disclosed that the All Progressive Congress (APC) gubernatorial aspirant, Chief Bayo Adelabu lacked basic knowledge of economics despite being touted as a first class graduate of Economics. Olasupo said the statements made by Adelabu on Fresh FM, an Ibadan radio interview programme on Sunday morning that the Moniya-Iseyin, Iseyin-Oyo and Iseyin-Ogbomoso roads construction were waste of state resources and were not needed reeked of lack of basic knowledge of economics with poor view of human capital development. Adelabu, who featured on the radio interview programme on Sunday has accused the Makinde-led administration of waste of resources on the construction of the 76kilometer Moniya-Iseyin road, as according to him, less than fifty vehicles ply the road daily. -Advertisement- The former legislature opined that Chief Adelabu made the statement out of hatred for the people of Iseyin and Oke-Ogun in general, adding that the submission of the former banker showed his myopic worldview about leadership. He further hinted that from his personal assessments, over hundred trucks, carrying yam, maize and other farm products traversed the Iseyin-Moniya road in less that one hour while others bring household goods, fabrics and other items back to the region from the cities. “I listened to an interview granted by Oloye Bayo Adelabu on Fresh FM Ibadan and I was like waooo! This is a man that is seeking to rule Oyo State, words coming out of his mouth were unbelievable, this man is suppose to be a First Class graduate of Economics! “Well let me be specific, especially on the issues he raised that concern me and my root, Iseyin, he made reference to Iseyin-Moniya road being constructed by Governor Seyi Makinde as being a waste of resources and death trap and that you can count no more than fifty vehicles plying the road, haaaaa!!! That is a blatant lie! “This is obviously a gateway road to the Oke-Ogun region and the majority of foods being consumed in the urban centers of the State and the Southwest States come from this axis, I have on several occasions, as a community leader, stood by the road to count the number of trucks daily taking yam and other food items from Iseyin and the rest of Oke-Ogun to Ibadan and our neighboring States, you can count hundreds within an hour everyday, how could he say that does not have economic value? POLL “He said Oyo-Iseyin road is a waste, this is a road that has historical and economic value as well, it has historical forbearance on the people of Iseyin and Oke-Ogun, he even said Iseyin-Ogbomoso road also does not have a value, how could somebody striving to lead a State under which the people of Iseyin and Oke-Ogun are crucial part, say that? “If for a singular reason, LAUTECH’s  of Agricultural Science and Natural Resources that has been moved to Iseyin is enough, the fact that there is a road that connects the whole Oke-Ogun and Iseyin to Ogbomoso now, makes it easy for lecturers, researchers, students, motorists and other people to travel to and from Ogbomoso from Iseyin under thirty to thirty-five minutes, lecturers will do their lectures and go back to Ogbomoso if they wish, this means there is transfer of knowledge in a conducive economic-driven environment. “How would somebody that seeks to rule Oyo State in this time and age now say these roads do not have positive economic impacts, three things I understand or take from his rants are that it could be probably out of hatred for the people of Iseyin, secondly and without mincing words, Oloye Bayo Adelabu lacks basic knowledge of Economics and thirdly, his world v…