The Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir has reiterated the commitment of his administration to ensure a free, fair and hitch-free election in the state, assuring opposition parties of a peaceful atmosphere for their political activities to thrive. Governor Mohammed who stated this on Tuesday when he received the Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu during the traditional Hawan Daushe at the Government House, warned the opposition that they should adhere to the laws and regulations of the country to avoid any breach of peace in the state. The traditional Hawan Daushe is normally done on the second day of Eid-el-Fitr to express joy and happiness for the successful completion of the Ramadan fasting. History showed that the 2022 edition was the 108th since it started. -Advertisement- The Governor said that there will be no politics of bitterness and rancour, adding that his government will ensure a level playing ground for the opposition in such a way that they will be allowed to play their political role in line with the laws of the country and the electoral act. “Our aspiration is not to serve self-interest, it is for the good of Nigeria and Nigerians. We want to ensure equitable distribution of resources so that everyone will benefit. We want to be better than what our predecessors did for the good of the people”. “We want to ensure that once more, the name of Bauchi becomes a subject of national discourse. We are aspiring to lead positively. Whatever we get, we will accept in good faith” “Before the end of our administration, we will reconstruct all the Palaces in the state to make them look modern and wear beautiful looks. Already, the LGCs have commenced renovation of palaces of District Heads while we have purchased official cars for them,” he said. The governor then commended the traditional institutions in the state for the support and cooperation with his administration since it was inaugurated in 2019 even as he further reiterated the readiness of his administration to reposition the traditional institutions of the state back to their original status of respect and recognition. POLL “We have been able to overcome the problem of salary payment, every civil servant now receives salary seamlessly. The LGC are now fully autonomous and are paying salaries as at when due” he added. He assured that his administration will continue to serve the purpose of its coming by developing every sector of the state so that in the end, it will be left better than how it was in 2019. Earlier in his remarks, the Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu commended the Governor for the respect he is according to the traditional institutions saying that it was a surprise to them considering that he is a Prince himself. “you are doing everything possible to promote the traditional institutions to a position of pride in the country. We will continue to support you in that direction”. “We recognize your efforts at ensuring peace and peaceful co-existence among Nigerians resident in the state. We are also aware of all you are doing to ensure the security of lives and property. We will continue to support your efforts” he said The Emir also commended the administration for the good things it is doing for the development of the state saying that the projects either completed or ongoing across the state are unprecedented in the political history of the state. He also commended the Governor for promoting Agriculture through adequate provisions of farming inputs urging him to ensure that same was done as the 2022 farming season is gradually setting in.