ABUJA – Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, presidential aspirant and frontrunner for the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket for the APC in the forthcoming special Convention of the party believes the governing party would be engaging and reaching out to a vast percentage of young and not so young Nigerians should the APC select him to fly the flag of the party on May 29/30. A Nwajiuba presidency, he Insists would offer the APC opportunity to speak to over 90 per cent of the nation’s demographics, 70% of whom are 55years and below. The immediate past Minister of State for Education disclosed during chat with journalists that although he does not have the resources to buy over voters in a highly monetized Political environment, that he has a vast majority of young as well as the elderly who are eager to demonstrate that it is possible to vote in a 55year to lead the country. -Advertisement- Already, he explained that about 3,150 Nigerians have made contributions to buy the presidential nomination form in support of his aspiration to demonstrate that with or without deep pocket, Nigerians are committed support a credible candidate. “I must agree with you that we have a monetised politics but I can assure you that we had Buhari elected, who didn’t have money. I am only presenting myself for you to choose from. I am not saying I can buy. I am not sponsored by the oil industry. “So the only people who can sponsor me are Nigerians. 3,150 people made contributions and we bought these forms. So, I know that if Nigerians are willing, once my party selects me, APC will be speaking to 90% of the demographics of Nigeria, speaking to the 70% who are below 50 and who believe it’s possible to vote for somebody who is 55 is hope for them. “Right now Nigerians are sure this is where they can get the most efficacious leader and this is what I am providing. I know that that is what I am up to and that is what APC will be offering Nigerians if they take me as their candidate. ” They will be speaking to elders who believe that they have gotten somebody who will do the work for them. Almost all my supporters are above my age. I have members of the House of Representatives from 1992 who endorsed me even before they contribute money. Some have paid N1000, one from Nasarawa gave me 150 yams to sell from his farm. People are investing thinking that there may be a new Nigeria. It is not about monetised or not monetised, it’s about Nigerians committing to a future where they want to go”. POLL Speaking on the issue of picking a concensus candidate among the APC presidential aspirants from the South-East geopolitical zone, Nwajiuba maintained that the aspirants from the zone do not want a concensus candidate. According to him, the Aspirants are engaging Nigerians through the party, trusting that the APC will find one of them worthy to lead the party. He added that the Aspirants would have desired that more Aspirants had joined the race from the zone. He said: “The South East does not want to arrive at a consensus. South-East wants to work with Nigerians. We are very disappointed, we thought about 10 to 20 people from the south-east will buy these forms so that we can make a case. ” When you are making a case, you can make it one way, let all of us come out; men, and women and say yes we believe in Nigeria. We have only seven aspirants and that is very small but I am sure out of this seven, we have those in their seventies, we have those in their sixties, we have those in their fifties. “We have every type you need. Nigeria must have the full breadth of Igbo diversity. Any type you need Igbo people has it. So what we said yesterday was that anyone you choose we are going to back him or her. “I think part of why I am running is because I am trying to bring some sense of social order to our polity. Let’s not run away with the belief that our country has collapsed. That it is no longer a country of laws or a country of rules, that there is no more moral, there’s no more order. In other words, everything works because this is at the heart of what it is that you see on display”, he said.