Comrade Festus Osifo , the President of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association (PENGASSAN), in this interview with SYLVESTER ENOGHASE, threw insight into myriads of challenge that the Oil and Gas sector is faced with, and pointed the way forward. Excerpts: Nigeria has for the umpteenth time been faced with recurring challenges on how to sufficiently make PMS available to consumers. What do you think should be the way out? We could not have being in the mess If our four refineries are functioning. Assuming they are functioning, we will be refining 450,000 barrels per day. When you add both, it will be 1.1m crude oil per day. It means that almost 60% of our products will be refined locally. As a country, we will consume good amount of them. As a country, we will consume 600,000 PMS on a daily basis. That is crude oil that is turned to petroleum product. Then, if you look at the entire West African sub region, we could export to them. But beyond that, what we must be thinking about now is industrialisation. This is because Nigeria cannot in any true sense benefit in a practical way from the oil and gas resources in the country don’t add the value of refining it. Are you saying refining our crude oil will boost revenue drive? POLL Of course, we know what it means as at today, even though crude oil sells for higher, but because we have to import the refined products, the increase in price at the international market does not seem to confer any advantage to our country. So, that speaks volumes that we have to refine our petroleum products in Nigeria if we would have to enjoy the benefits of an endowment like that. What is your take on the unpredictable price of fuel? There is an issues in price that is why you are seeing the price of crude oil skyrocketing, going up in the global market. Like what is happening in Ukraine, and Russia today nobody knows what will happen in the North East in Nigeria here. Energy transition may not take place until in the next 50 years. If there is shortage of production, the price will go high. Nigeria should be channeling our energy into gas production because it is practically used by everyone in the world, so it will not go down, and it is much cleaner than oil. What we have to do as a country is to invest more on gas, and industrialisation that will require this fossil fuel. What is your take on casualisation and unionisation? The way we define it is quite different from the way the government sees it. We see it as casulisation and contract staffing. You have an organisation and you have organogram. In that organogram you create different box where people fit into different boxes. So, if people are fitting in you see those people as employees. An example is when you bring in people to do a job for 24 hours back to back, you will have the step A that is doing the permanent job and B will be the contract staff and they will fit into the organogram. We refer to them as organogram. Why they called service contract we refer to them as casualisation. But, they term it as outsourcing because they said outsourcing is in the law which is true. We call it casualisation but they call it outsourcing. And a lot of those companies are not unionised. It for this reason that we, PENGASSAN, together NUPENG are taking steps to unionise them. When you unionise everyone, the task will be easier the day you are on the street, they will join you, but if not they will be in the factory working. If we get 90% or more of them unionised, then we can act. Most of them do not even have CBA but when they are unionised it will be easy for them to have something to relay to their employer. We are on the move for aggressive unionisation. What is your view on the mushrooming trend of Modular Refineries, and do you think it will solve Nigeria’s need as far as PMS is concerned? On the modular refineries, most of us make assumptions and mistakes. Modular refineries as it is today in Nigeria, cannot produce PMS. In fact, I was listening to somebody few days ago on the radio; he was saying government should license more modular refineries in the Niger-Delta for them to refine PMS. Modular refineries cannot produce PMS. The best they can produce is AGO (diesel). When you take your crude oil, put your crude oil in a bowl and heat it up, after sufficient heating, what you will get is close to AGO. For you to produce PMS, you need a refinery of about 50,000-barrel capacity because there is what is known as fluid catalytic cracker. There is no manufacturer in the world that will manufacture a fluid catalytic cracker for 5,000 barrels. Most of these modular refineries produce about 5,000 barrels per day like the water Smith for example, like the one they are building in Edo State that is about 5,000 barrels per day. They don’t have a capacity to produce PMS. Abroad, they produce AGO. So even if we have multiplicity modular refineries, they cannot produce PMS because they don’t have the requisite unit to do so. For you to produce PMS, you need a capacity of close to if not more than 50,000 barrels per day. What can you say as a critical Stakeholder in the oil and gas sector of the economy about state of the refineries? On the issues of the refineries, one of the things that we did from the side of the Trade Unions, PENGASSAN and Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, NUPENG, was to be part of the steering committee. We insisted that we should be on the Steering committee for us to have an idea of what is being done. Before now, when we say refineries were being maintained and so, so amount of monies were being released, Nigerians including myself, were always skeptical. The question was “are we sure that this money is going to be used for what it is earmarked? Part of what we did was to ensure that no money is released to politicians. So, when the Port Harcourt refinery was sanctioned, that they should go ahead with the rehabilitation, since 2004 there has been none. I state this in our honour as an association, no single turn around maintenance in Port Harcourt refinery for example. You have big announcement over the media but at the end of the day, how much was released to maintain these refineries? This particular maintenance, Nigeria is borrowing $1billon from Afreximbank. We advised that Nigeria should not collect this money and pay into federation account or the CBN that the politicians will have access to. We advised that the best way to go was to open an escrow account, while the bank pays into the escrow account; the bank, NNPC and contractors will be signatory. At the end of the day, you will release money to the contractors per milestone. If you have committed 10 per cent of the work breakdown structure, that is the amount that will be released so that the money would be utilised for its purpose. That was what was approved. With our advice, they created the escrow account with the signatories, while Afreximbank will release trunk of it depending on the verifiable milestones. That is one of the things that we ensured was done. That is the template we are using today because we did that in anticipation that government will change tomorrow. So, if government changes tomorrow and you have given this money to politicians, during elections, at the end of the day, the money will disappear. But as I speak with you today, Afrieximbank has not released a kobo to CBN or a kobo to the Ministry of Finance. The money as we speak, the initial sum that has been released is in an escrow account. So, they task Nigerian Government to give 15 per cent of the contractual cost to the contractor and when they see that the contractor has delivered on the 15 per cent, they will now give additional to keep it rolling. So, that was the input that came from labour. As we speak today, if you are familiar with the Port Harcourt refinery, you will see that activities are going on there. Over 20-30 contractors have been mobilised and sub-contractors have also been mobilised to site. I advise the management to do a media tour where they bring media and civil society to move round the facility and see the level of work that is going on. Today, there is some level of concentration in the phase 5 areas and phase 5 is the old Port Harcourt refinery. Their expectations before are the end of the year. That could be a political statement. But the reality is that if the level of work is sustained the way it is today before election next year, we could see it coming on stream. But there are bigger challenges. It is not just sufficient for us to say the refinery should work. What can you say about the rising security challenges that have come to beset the sector? Given your question, let me say it has been very challenging delivering crude to the refinery due to the issue of pipeline vandalism. If you pump crude from any of these fields in Port Harcourt or in Bayelsa to any of these refineries from the terminals, and in that process send in 50,000 barrels and they get just 20 or 30 thousand barrels at the end of the day, if you are the person that is selling the crude, what will you do? It is better you look for a vessel, pump the crude into the vessel and you take abroad. As we try to fix the refineries, we must also look at how to deliver crude to these refineries so that we will not have a situation where our refineries are good, but products will not get to the refineries. These are some issues that must be solved before even the old Port Harcourt refinery comes on stream.