Media stakeholders have been charged to always embrace peacebuilding techniques in election and conflict reporting in line with the best global practices. This was the focal point of a four-day training organised for journalists and other media stakeholders by an International Peacebuilding organisation christened “Search for Common Ground” ahead of the June 18, 2022, off-circle Governorship election in Ekiti State. The event held at Amazing Grace Hotel, Ado-Ekiti was well attended by reporters, broadcasters, bloggers as well as media influencers. -Advertisement- The media is encouraged to always strife to diffuse tension during conflict situations while the  Social media were enjoined to compliment the conventional media in raising the conversion on issues relating to conflict prevention and management in the society. The brainstorming, which offered opportunities for peer to peer review learning also dwelled on the dynamics of conflict reporting and its impact on the general well-being of the society. It was established that not all conflicts can lead to violence, but conflict could be a precursor to violence if it is not properly managed or reported by the media. The training floated sessions on evidence-based reporting, peace and protective journalism, networking and how media can serve as change agents in promoting peace and democratic values in an egalitarian society. The sessions underscored the importance of peace journalism and the need for media to always humanize all victims of the conflict by making sure that the reporting is not only balanced but uses peaceful measures to speak out against war and violence. POLL The experts said ” journalists don’t try to exploit the loss and suffering but make sure that the reporting is balanced and also demonstrate how easily news can be manipulated. “Part of the ethical guidelines for this kind of reporting is to bring out people that use peaceful measures and speak out against war and violence and document the suffering and loss on all sides,” they argued. Speaking at the sidelines, the  Common Ground’s National Media Specialist, Temisan Etietsola, explained that the training is aimed to refresh the knowledge of Journalists on the ethics of their profession. He said: “This is an opportunity for us to remind journalists to desist from any report that will stir up conflict during the gubernatorial election in Ekiti State. “Journalists are meant to be public servants as well, this is the reason why we have come, to equip them with that knowledge. “We discovered that civic education is lacking in the media, journalists usually report what happened in the election or the results of anelection. They don’t educate the public on how to get their PVCs, who to vote for even and enlighten them on the candidates vying for the position.” Etietsola highlighted that the trainees will go through a transformational process thereby imbibing the ethics of the profession to mitigate conflicts in their reportage. “The  4-day transformational process  is to making sure journalists know all the basic steps to avoid conflicts, if this is imbibed, they will be more responsible in their reports before, during and even after the election.”