The APC leadership in Plateau state has allayed the fears of the Equity and Forum that there is no plan or contemplation by Governor Simon Bako Lalong or the leadership of the All Progressives Congress in Plateau State to impose any aspirant on the party. The Spokesman of All Progressives Congress in Plateau state Sylvanus Namang in a statement in Jos on Sunday made available to newsmen, said the Governor of Plateau State as a seasoned politician and accomplished democrat has not told the party or anyone to the best knowledge of the party that he has a preferred aspirant amongst the 10 aspirants who at the close of the sale of forms had purchased the expression of intention and nomination forms to contest the forthcoming gubernatorial primary election in the state. According to Namang ” What the party is aware of is that out of his concern and desire for the party to win the forthcoming gubernatorial election, he had at the recent stakeholders meeting of the party at the Government House, Little Rayfield appealed to the governorship aspirants to make all efforts to reduce the number by agreeing amongst themselves as only one aspirant would become a candidate in the end.” -Advertisement- ” He clearly stated that he had no preferred aspirant and even sited instances where some aspirants, some whom he had not even come in contact with of name dropping which he frowned at.” He added that his eyes and ears are on the ground to ensure that the process of electing candidates across the board is transparent, fair and equitable. He added the party leadership in the state recently invited all the aspirants to a meeting at the Kalwa House party secretariat where the Governor’s appeal was reiterated. ” The Chairman of the party in the state, Honourable Rufus Bature appointed a Coordinator amongst the aspirants in the person of Chief Amos Gizo which they all agreed would serve as a link between them and the party.” According to Namang” It is based on the strength and weight of the appeals that only 10 out of the 19 aspirants bought the forms to contest. POLL ” For the avoidance of doubt, the APC in the state would want to allay the fears of our most respected elders particularly the Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Equity and Justice Forum, Barrister Umar Shittien and Chief S. D. Makama both of whom the governor and the party hold in very high esteem that there is no plan to impose any aspirant on the party as a preferred candidate.” He reiterated that APC in the state wishes to restate its assurances and commitment of providing a level playing ground for all the gubernatorial aspirants and aspirants at all levels. He added that the party is interested in producing the best, credible and acceptable candidates who would give it victory to break the jinx of not producing a successor since 2007. ” Our esteemed elders who have unfettered access to the Governor or the party chairman should exploit these avenues for clarification and proferring of advice and solutions where necessary.The APC in the state advises in strong terms our most valued members, especially our distinguished aspirants not to overheat the intraparty polity and concentrate on the task of ensuring the emergence of electable candidates for the 2023 general elections. “ Namang calls for unity and brotherliness in the APC family on the Plateau.