Owerri  – The Imo State police command said it has arrested more seven suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its armed affiliate, Eastern Security Network (ESN), that killed a police officer, Inspector Felicia Nwagbara, in Agwa, Oguta council area of the state. It said it discovered shrine and live python which the suspects allegedly used in fortifying themselves before attacks and also recovered assorted charms, arms and ammunitions in Ubah, Agwa community. According to the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Michael Abattam, the feat was achieved following the receipt of credible information that the native doctor who prepared charms for fortifications against bullets and knives for members of the proscribed IPOB and ESN which led in the attack and killing of a police officer in Agwa community had returned after fleeing the community. -Advertisement- According to Abattam, the command’s Tactical Teams, on 18/5/2022, about 0600 hours hastily mobilised and with the positive revelations made in course of interrogating the suspects earlier arrested in connection with the killing, the team was able to locate the criminal hideout in Ubah Agwa in Oguta and immediately cordoned the area and tactically went into the den. “The hoodlums on sighting the police operatives, attempted to escape only to discover that the whole escape routes had been saturated with police operatives hence, they were arrested”, he said. He listed names of the suspects to include: Casmire Mgbugha, ‘m’, aged 53 years; Hycent Chimezie, ‘m’, aged 30 years; Hycent Azunna, ‘m’, aged 28 years; Hycent Ifesinachi, ‘m’, aged 26 years; Hycent Chimobi, ‘m’, aged 23 years; Chukwuemeka Wisdom, ‘m’, aged 22 years, and Nnadike Clifford, ‘m’, aged 72 years. On searching the terror camp, the police image maker said that the following items were recovered: one Toyota Camry car with registration number AKD 73 BF LAGOS; one live python, eight locally made pistols, eighteen rounds of live cartridges, one Biafra flag, a pair of police camouflage uniform belonging to the late Inspector Felicia Nwagbara, ‘f’, who has been declared missing since 2017 by police authorities. “Amazingly, while coming out of the terror camp, one of the suspects, Hycent  Chimezie, for the second time, attempted escaping and was maimed on the leg”, he said. POLL Abattam, who disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen, said that in the course of interrogation, the suspects confessed to have murdered the late Inspector Felicia Nwagbara, who was the second wife to one of the suspects, Casmire Mgbugba. He said that the suspects further stated that they were the manufacturers of the locally made guns recovered from them apart from using it in perpetrating crimes, they also sold to robbers and kidnappers. “The command, wish to use this medium to appreciate the good people of Imo State for their undaunting support and assures them of the command’s commitments in sustaining the already improved security architecture in the state”, he said.