Abuja –  Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday, dismissed a suit by the Attorneys-General of the 36 states and the Nigeria Governors’ Forum seeking to restrain the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) from implementing its guidelines on local government spending. Sued by the 36 states’ Attorneys-General and the 37th plaintiff (Incorporated Trustees of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum) were the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, the NFIU, and the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE). By the suit, the plaintiffs had asked the court to determine whether having regard to the combined effect of sections 7 (1) (6) (a) and (b), 162 (6) and 162 (7) and (8) and the 4th schedule of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) which, among others guaranteed the existence and structure of local government councils under local government laws of each state, the state governments of the federation are subject to the directives or control of the NFIU or anybody howsoever called, other than the House of Assembly of each state as to the manner and terms of the operation of State Joint Local Government Accounts in their respective states. But in his judgment, Justice Ekwo held the suit was liable for dismissal for want of merit. -Advertisement- The court reasoned that upon studying the provisions of the NFIU’s guidelines, it was unable to see where the provisions thereof contradict or conflict the provision of sections 7(1), (6) (a) and (b) of the constitution. “I am also unable to see how the provisions of the 2nd defendant’s (NFIU) guidelines contradict or conflict with the provisions of section 162(6) of the constitution which creates the State Joint Local Government Account into which allocations to the local government councils of the state from the Federation Account and from the government of the state shall be paid,” he said. The trial judge held that the guidelines did not contradict section 162(8) of the constitution which prescribed that the amount fied. Buhari spoke on Monday in Kano, at the ceremonial parade to commemorate NAF 58th anniversary. The president said the Air Force had transformed into a formidable entity, ready to confront immediate and future challenges. POLL “It gives me great pleasure to be here to felicitate with you on the Nigerian Air Force 58th anniversary celebration. This is particularly because the Nigerian Air Force has over these 58 years transformed into a formidable and resilient air force that is positioned to effectively tackle both contemporary and future security challenges. “This adaptability has thus enabled the service to respond effectively to our dynamic national security challenges. The Nigerian Air Force has been able to meet its constitutional responsibilities, thereby justifying the government’s enormous support in the last seven years. I, therefore, congratulate the Chief of the Air Staff, officers and airmen/airwomen as well as civilian staff of the Nigerian Air Force on this occasion of the 58th anniversary.” President Buhari noted that on the assumption of office in 2015, he “promised to equip and re-professionalise the armed forces to perform their constitutional responsibilities more effectively,” adding that “we have therefore demonstrated the required political will and leadership as well as committed resources towards capacity building and re-professionalising of the armed forces.” According to him, “Today, I can say confidentially that the armed forces have indeed witnessed tremendous improvement in the past seven years. In particular, the provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation through enhanced welfare are also ongoing.” The president noted that “the provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation” like the Super Tucanos and the Augusta helicopter gunships among others, had greatly helped turn the tide in the fight against terrorists and other non-state actors, and sustained the Nigerian Air Force. He assured that the administration will continue to provide more platforms such as the Beechcraft, some modern helicopter gunships and UAV for the Nigerian Air Force to enable it to man our airspace more effectively. Rest assured that as a government, we are willing to do even more to ensure the provision of the requisite support and encouragement to overcome various security challenges.” President Buhari commended the Minister of Defence, the Chief of the Defence Staff, the service chiefs as well as the leadership of the security agencies for doing their jobs well, charging them to “remain committed, steadfast and resolute as we forge ahead to achieving a secure, peaceful and more prosperous Nigeria.” The commander-in-chief particularly lauded the Chief of the Air Staff, officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the air force for the good work they are doing to support the government’s defence and security policies as well as the high level of discipline, loyalty to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and support of democratic values. Standing to the credit of the local government council of the state shall be distributed among the local government councils of that state on such terms and in such manner as may be prescribed by the House of Assembly of the state. More so, the court opined that the provisions of the NFIU’s guidelines do not contradict or conflict with the provisions of the 4th Schedule to the 1999 Constitution which prescribes the functions of a local government council. “The duty of the court is limited to expounding the law and not expanding it. “On the whole, I see the provisions of the guidelines of the 2nd defendant as seeking to direct the monitoring of accounts, transfers and any other means of payment or transfer of funds of local government councils as provided for in section 3 (1) (r) of the Act of the NFIU. “It only limits cash withdrawal made from any local government account anywhere in the country to amount not exceeding N500,000.00 per day. “Any amount higher than that can be done using other methods of banking transaction save cash. “Unless it can be shown that there is any provision of the 1999 constitution (as amended) which these provisions of the 2nd defendant’s guidelines have contradicted or conflicted directly and practically, then the issue of unconstitutionality cannot be said to arise,” the court held. In addition, Justice Ekwo said there was no provision of the NFIU’s guidelines that has contravened the provisions of sections 7(1), (6) (a) and (b), 162 (6), (7) and (8), and the 4th schedule to the 1999 constitution (as amended). “I also find that the case of the plaintiffs has not been established and I so hold,” he ruled. Consequently, the court answered questions 1 to 5 formulated by the plaintiffs on the originating summons in the negative. “I find in the end, that the case of the plaintiffs lacks merit and ought to be dismissed and it is hereby dismissed. This is the order of this court,” the judge declared. Earlier the judge also struck out the name of the 37th plaintiff (Incorporated Trustees of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum) from the suit for lack of locus standi (legal right) to institute the suit.