The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has finally broken the silence on the news report making rounds that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele is nursing a presidential ambition ahead of the 2023 general elections. It could be recalled that a group of farmers had on Friday purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination and expression of interest forms for Emefiele ahead of the party’s primaries slated for May 31 and June 1. Emefiele, in a swift response, claimed that he had not decided on the presidential race and would purchase the forms by himself if he decided to run for the presidency. -Advertisement- But surprisingly, the CBN Governor, however, headed to the Federal High Court, Abuja Division to seek interpretation of the constitution and public service rules on public servants seeking elective positions while in office. INEC while reacting to the move stated that it is watching with keen interest the reports surrounding the presidential aspiration of the CBN Governor. INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu in a statement issued on Monday by its spokesperson, Rotimi Oyekanmi said the commission would soon take a decision on the matter if Emefiele eventually joins the 2023 presidential race. Yakubu, however, disclosed that the electoral agency might move its sensitive materials which were being kept in the custody of CBN if Emefiele officially declares his interest to run for the number one seat. The statement reads: “The strategic partnership between the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Independent National Electoral Commission which enables the commission to store its sensitive election materials with the CBN, has been in place for many years and is beneficial in several ways. POLL “Indeed, there have been various reports that the CBN governor is nursing an intention to run for the office of President. But, he has yet to formally declare his intention to run for the office of the president as of today. “However, if and when he eventually does, the commission will look at the implications and take a decision on what becomes of the long-standing strategic partnership with the CBN.”