BENIN – The face-off between the man­agement of Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc and Maroghioba community (aka AT&P), one of the company’s hostcommunities, in Ovia South West local govern­ment area of Edo State has been resolved with the company agree­ingtoconstructanalternativeac­cess road to the community. The community on their part agreed to collaborate with the company to set up neighbor­hood security watch to tackle insecurity and ensure the pre­vention of further theft of its oil palm fruits. The community also agreed to assist in protecting the oil palm company from unwanted intruders as well as apprehend­ing any suspected criminal within the community. -Advertisement- The community also prom­ised to corporate with the company in ensuring peaceful coexistence between them and the company management to enhance uninterrupted pro­duction. These were part of the agreement reached at a peace meeting between the company management and the commu­nity after a face off over the digging of trenches around the company’s plantation to prevent the stealing of their products and other valuable items from the company by miscreants. The feud however led to a protest against the company by the community who alleged that the trenches blocked the only access road to their area. Present at the peace meeting were the representatives of the police and the Nigerian Army. Speaking at the peace meet­ing the company’s Managing Director, Dr Graham Hefer, said the company merely dug trenches on a portion of land belonging to the company to prevent movement of those who came to steal its palm fruits, using Maroghioba (ATP) community as an escape route. POLL He noted that over 55 per­sons had been arrested and con­victed for oil palm fruits theft, alleging that those perpetrating the act were all from this AT&P community. “This is the reason we decid­ed to dig the trench to prevent them from stealing the oil palm fruits and because we know that these thieves use the com­munity as a gateway. “We have constantly been carrying out Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to this community, but we need you people to protect us and our investments so that we will continue to provide those basic amenities that you need. “If you cannot give us pro­tection, it will be difficult for us to continue to do anything for you,” MrHefer said. Responding on behalf of the community, the acting Odionw­ere (village head) of Maroghio­ba (AT&P) community, Gabriel Okhuolegbe, said the commu­nity had in the past, benefitted from the company’s CSR such as the provision of road, mar­ket, schools, boreholes, town hall, fencing of these infrastruc­ture and provision of scholar­ships, among others. Okhuolegbe, however, said the protest which was caused by the trench dug by the com­pany, although without consul­tation with the community was uncalled for, especially when all those who participated in the protest were workers of the company. He said the people were afraid that the company was trying to shut them out from continued patronage.