As Muslim faithful all over the world celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitri to mark the end of Ramadan fasting, the House of Representatives hopeful, Arc (Dr.) Hassan Olawale Giwa has tasked Muslims to continue to uphold the lessons and teachings established by the almighty Allah. Arc Giwa, who is aspiring to represent the Lagelu/Akinyele federal constituency in the House of Representatives on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) felicitated with Muslims for witnessing the 2022 end of the 30 days of Ramadan prayers. The renowned architect also congratulated workers in Nigeria on the occasion of the annual Workers’ Day celebration and charged them to renew their commitment and hope for the Nigeria of their dreams. Arc Giwa, in a two-in-one statement, reiterated that the significance of Ramadan is to ensure submission to Allah, show love to one another and live in peaceful co-existence with others. He, therefore, charged the Muslim faithful to continue to practice the teaches and lessons of abstinence from things that are against the will of Allah, to show love to one another to ensure peaceful co-existence and religious harmony among the people and continue to offer prayers for the greatness of Nigeria. Arc Giwa also extended his greetings to Nigeria’s workforce on the occasion of the 2022 May Day celebration. He said that the contributions of workers to the progress and development of the country can not be overestimated. Arc Giwa added that the sacrifice of the Nigerian workers is playing a vital role in its survival from the present economic situation. The leading House of Representatives aspirant in the Lagelu/Akinyele federal constituency, however, said that the opportunity will continue to present itself, advising the workers to use the opportunity of the 2023 elections to achieve the Nigeria of their dream. POLL “Nigerians can not continue to do things the same way and expect different results, if we want different results Nigerian workers, everybody must be ready to do things differently. “We must use the 2023 elections to elect the people that will give us the Nigeria of our dreams. I am not talking about the president alone, we must elect good and quality people to represent us, to make good and quality laws that will benefit all and sundry in the country, we must elect the governors and the president that will implement the quality laws for the progress of the country.” While extending his greetings to the Muslim and workers in Lagelu/Akinyele federal constituency, Arc Giwa, applauded them for maintaining peaceful co-existence irrespective of religion and tribal differences. He, therefore, prayed that almighty Allah accepts their prayers, and sacrifices offered during Ramadan and reward them bountifully.