YENAGOA – The Bayelsa State Depu­ty Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has urged students not to allow the ongoing industrial action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) sway them into anti-social tendencies that will destroy their bright destinies. He advised them to rath­er pursue worthwhile goals capable of enhancing their learning and sound charac­ter in and out of school for a better future. Ewhrudjakpo gave the ad­vice while granting audience separately to the National Union of Bayelsa State Stu­dents (NUBSS) Worldwide and students of Sagbama Local Government origin studying at the Federal Uni­versity, Otuoke, in Govern­ment House, Yenagoa. -Advertisement- In a statement on Wednes­day issued by his media aide, Mr Doubara Atasi, the deputy governor described student­ship as a veritable foundation for sustainable development of any people and their soci­ety. He reminded the students that the greatest social as­sets of any individual are good character and integrity, stressing, “bad character is like a flat tyre which cannot take anyone far in life.” Ewhrudjakpo urged the students to take their aca­demics seriously and strive to become better than their parents and guardians, adding that students would be doing themselves and society a whole lot of good if they shun social vices, including cultism, rape and drug abuse. Responding to NUBSS’ re­quest for sponsorship to en­able them campaign against cultism in secondary schools, he asked them to tackle the menace from its roots by preaching the message of re­pentance to their undergrad­uate colleagues, who are into cult activities. Ewhrudjakpo said: “Your goal or proposal to go to sec­ondary schools to campaign against cultism is quite laud­able and noble. But, I disagree with you on your target. POLL “You must first of all re­move the log in your eyes be­fore you take away the spec in another person’s eye. Who are the people who go to initiate our children and your young­er ones in secondary schools? Are they not from tertiary in­stitutions? “It is those of you who are cultists in the tertiary insti­tutions that go about initi­ating the secondary school students into cultism. “So, I want you to first of all talk to and convert the un­dergraduates before coming down to students at the lower levels.”