JOS – The Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba, has appealed to politicians, not to unnecessary tension that may worsen the security of lives and property of the people of Plateau and the rest of Nigeria ahead of the 2023 general elections. Da Buba disclosed this during the 2022 Nzem Berom annual cultural festival held at Rwang Pam Stadium in Jos. The festival had a theme, “Celebrating the Berom in Politics”. -Advertisement- According to Gbong Gwom Jos, “The whole nation today is in a frenzy with heightened political activities and movements as the reality of the 2023 general elections draws nearer. This frenzy comes with the unrealistic political promises and gimmicks that are used to lure the very impoverished voters, whose votes may at the end of the day not even count. “May we at this point plead with the political class to water down the undue and in fact unnecessary tension and the worsening insecurity that comes with the advent of elections. “We also wish to remind government at all levels and fellow traditional rulers that at the end of it all, we shall give an account of our stewardship to the Creator of the universe, whom we all claim to worship.” The Jos monarch reminded the federal and state governments that most Berom people and people from different parts of the state who were displaced as a result of insecurity are yet to return to their ancestral homes. “May I use this opportunity to remind the Federal Government and the Inspector-General Police of their promise to set up a Mobile Base in Gashish District of Barkin-Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau, as this is yet to be actualized. POLL “The displaced natives of this district cannot go back to their ancestral lands to pursue their agrarian vocation, raise and train their children since the security threats still exist in the area. We plead for reconsideration of this promise.” Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong in an address at the event, urged the Beroms to participate in political discourse in Plateau and mobilize the citizens to actively participate in politics. He urged the elders to teach the younger generation politics of service anchored on the right values emanating from the cultures and tradition that foster honesty, accountability, tolerance, love and service to humanity. “I appeal to the Berom nation and indeed the entire socio-cultural groups in Plateau State to do all within their power to ensure that there is no room for criminals who apart from causing havoc and destruction, seek to sow the seeds of hatred and division among the people. “As diverse as the 53 ethnic groups in Plateau State may be, we have a long-standing reputation for love, hospitality, harmony and tolerance.” Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha represented by Prof. Danladi Atu, Secretary to Government of Plateau State said Nzem Berom is an annual cultural festival that unifies the Berom and Plateau people. He encouraged the people to continue to uphold their cultural heritage for the unity and prosperity of Nigeria. The high light of the event was a cultural display of Berom cultural dance, Berom cultural artifacts and food varieties on display.