BENIN – Former Senate President and one of the frontline presidential aspirants on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Bukola Saraki, has promised to take Nigeria to a higher level, starting with re­structuring of the country, if elected president in 2023. Sarak, who made the prom­ise while meeting with Edo PDP national delegates in Be­nin City, the Edo State capital said, he was in Benin to seek the support of the delegates to rescue Nigeria from the pres­ent situation, insisting that the 2023 election should be seen by all Nigerians as an exercise to effect the desired change that would bail the nation out of the current quagmire. He said Nigerians need a courageous and experience person who knows the issues, what to do and what is required to fix the country for the better. -Advertisement- “For four years I was the Senate president, nothing the presidency didn’t do to remove me as Senate President, but I survive because I stood for the integrity of the integrity of the National Assembly, Nigeria and what is right. I survived because I am a team player and I was on the side of the people. “It is important that we have a courageous leader to take important decision, we need a strong leader that can restruc­ture and unify the country. I am the bridge between the north and south and I will unify the country.” He further declared, “2023 is a defining moment for Nigeria and cannot afford to just vote anybody as President, Nigeri­ans need somebody who can rescue Nigeria as a nation from becoming a failed country. “2023 elections that are com­ing, are going to be a defining moment for this country. It is an election that we can’t afford just to put anybody. “In this world, there are four types of nations, there are strong nations, weak nations, failing nations and a failed na­tion. In 2015, we were defined as weak nation but now we are moving towards a failing nation.” POLL He said he had demonstrat­ed the experience, capacity and what it would take to fix Nige­ria, as a governor, Chairman, Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), as well as a senator and Senate President. “I am here to seek your support to rescue Nigeria, the 2023 election is an election we cannot afford to toy with. We cannot afford to miss it. “We need a president that un­derstands the issues. We need a president that knows what to do to make the nation work again, the level of unemployment is 50% among the youths. 80% of our earnings are used to service loans. Nigeria needs somebody that has the capacity, the skills to rescue Nigeria. “When I was governor in Kwara State, we made some in­vestment in health, education, and agriculture, the model is still being used today. If I have the chance, I will replicate it in Nigeria. “Secondly, I want to restruc­ture Nigeria, but we need a strong leader to restructure Ni­geria. You cannot restructure Nigeria by executive order, you can restructure Nigeria by leg­islative order. Reacting, the Edo PDP Chairman, Dr Tony Aziegbe­mi, said Nigeria needs a man with the courage of Dr Bukola Saraki to move the country out of the present economic and se­curity challenges.