LAGOS – Eight months after its creation, WahalaNetwork blog is deemed a success by its founder, businessman, Oluwagbenga Oluwafemi Dawodu, popularly known as Kristen Dawodu. “In the first week that WahalaNetwork started, the brand got less than 1000 followers; it was worrisome for me, knowing fully well the vision of the brand.” “But weeks after, the traction started improving so much so that in some weeks, the brand got more than 2, 000 followers.” -Advertisement- “Today, our Instagram account has 100, 000 followers,” Dawodu explained. Speaking further, Dawodu said: “When I launched the website wahalanetworkblog in August 2021, my desire was to bring a change to how entertainment stories are reported online.” “That was why our initial focus was on entertainment, from celeb news to comedy to sports to anything interesting online. But we have broadened our scope to include politics and general news as reflected on our website.” However, our social media, especially our Instagram page, @wahalanetwork, remains essentially an entertainment hub.” Dawodu insisted that WahalaNetwork is sharply differentiated from other popular blogs. POLL Said he: “We don’t do the same thing others do. Indeed, we post news and we entertain our followers with the latest trends. On the other hand, we do things others don’t do: we engage our followers, and in a way I don’t think other popular blogs do.” Elaborating further, he said: “Sometimes, I repost my followers and I also give them their credit; once I see that a person is good, I put him or her out there. Some thank me afterwards; some don’t. This is a way of keeping my followers and making them stick to my page.” From all indications, the WahalaNetwork boss believes his blog is growing stronger. “These days, people randomly post and tag WahalaNetwork on social media. Some of them beg WahalaNetwork for a repost.” “Some people even share our contents. Most importantly, some pay to post their contents, that shows we have become an important platform of news, ” he said.