The youths of Anambra State, comprising of several groups rooting for the former governor of the state, Peter Obi as president of Nigeria held a solidarity march for him. The youths, donning white-T shirts atop a pair of jeans converged on Ekwueme Square in Awka, from where they marched through the streets of Awka to the secretariat of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at Udoka Housing Estate, Awka on Wednesday. The youths asked the PDP to rescind its decision to throw the contest for the presidential ticket open to every zone describing such a decision as an affront to the South, especially the Southeast zone. -Advertisement- At the PDP secretariat, Mr Ikechukwu Anonye, the Anambra State Coordinator for Peter Obi Support Network (POSN), and coordinating Chairman of all Peter Obi Support groups presented a position paper to the leaders of the party in the state. Anonye who also addressed journalists said the position paper is addressed to the national chairman of PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, and the groups hoped that it gets to him. He said: “Today’s solidarity walk is to let the PDP know that we are aware of the schemings going on in the party and that we know that we know that the PDP has a constitution that supports rotation of the presidency between the North and the SouthNow that it is the turn of the South, and precisely the Southeast, and we are hearing that a committee has met and thrown it open for everybody. We consider it a level of injustice in the Southeast. “We want to register our support for him and these unjust moves will not be accepted. We want them to revert to the Southeast or the South in general and we know that they can rescind their decision. Every other zone has had a shot at the presidency except the Southeast. If they do not do the right thing, I think PDP should forget it. “Now that it is the turn of the South and precisely the Southeast, we are hearing that a committee has met and thrown it open for everybody. We consider it a level of injustice in the Southeast. POLL “Peter Obi is acceptable and is the only hope of the PDP. If he is this accepted and they decide to disenfranchise him, then it spells doom for the party and they should just go home in 2023”