ABUJA – Land Owners in the Federal Capital Territory  (FCT) Abuja have staged a protest against what they described as illegal sale of their property by the suspected land grabbers just as they called on the Minister Malam Muhammad Bello for intervention. The group under the aegis of Land Owners Association of Kubwa accused Aulic Nigeria Ltd  of colluding with Bwari Area Council and disguised as Royal King’s Court to forcibly take their lands located at at FO1, in Kubwa. The group made this appeal on friday in Abuja while addressing journalists during a protest against the unlawful invasion of their lands by trespassers. -Advertisement- Speaking on behalf of the group, Mrs Patience Ikwuagwu said they bought the land from the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) with genuine documents duly signed by theMinister. Ikwuagwu said, “We are here to bring to the notice of the Minister to come to our aid and also to come to the aid of the masses, because this is an injustice. “We bought land from the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) that was signed by the Minister. “We have our document to prove this, we did a legal search before we paid money and we just discovered that this land is being taken from us. “We are calling on the Minister to help us, intervene in this matter, because we do not know where to go, the masses are crying out, since the case is still in court. POLL “We believe if a land-case is in court you are not supposed to work on it until judgement, now Aulic Nigeria Ltd., went ahead and is selling those lands to other individuals.” “We have our document to prove this, we did a legal search before we paid money and we just discovered that this land has being taken from us. She said over 300 buyers were affected in the alleged land fraud. Another victim who is a Property Developer, Dr Christopher Madukwu who spoke to Journalists said the land was allocated at about 400sqm or 500sqm to those who bought the property and opened files at the Abuja Geographic Information Systems (AGIS). According to him “We have proof of payment, an opened file, acknowledgement and receipt; El-Rufai, then minister, allocated land to individuals in 2007, to reduce the level of people paying rent in Abuja and owning their houses. “So, along the way, this Aulic Nigeria Ltd., from nowhere with area council allocation from Bwari started working with the area council and development control to possess the land. “When I wanted to develop my own plot, he came and started fighting me; from my allocation paper you will see it was signed by El-Rufai. “We went to court and I won, I am currently building my house, the place was long due for development, therefore the need for the Minister to intervene”. Meanwhile the Manager of Aulic Nigeria Ltd., Mr Felix Okwaroha denied fraud allegation saying that Royal King’s Court is a subsidiary of his company. According to him, the land in contention is massive and there is a particular site that we would work on in an area opposite Daughters of Charity. Okwaroha said, “The other one that we are selling is down towards the end; our own land is down and it is 50 hectares, but the Royal Kings Court bought 10 hectares. “It is a clear site from the town, we have not started construction; we shall start in July 2022; it is over 60 hectares. “The one we are working on is only 10 hectares under Royal Kings Court, the place is inside the 50 hectares and you will see a road network towards the end. “You will see what they are doing; Aulic Nigeria Ltd is different and is the one that sold the plot to Royal Kings Court.