For all it may be worth, a U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit which took place at the White House, Washington DC on August 4-6, 2014, was a huge political capital for Nigeria. The event which was attended by about 50 African leaders was said to be the largest gathering any U.S President had ever had with African heads of state and government. President Barack Obama was the American leader then. Even cynics who never believed that former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan would ever be allowed to step into the United States of America for reasons best known to them would have been jolted from illusion into stark reality when the Nigerian leader was not only allowed into the White House, the American seat of power but was also given a red carpet reception. What this implies is that the attempt by some Nigerian politicians to blackmail Jonathan using local and Western media propaganda had hit a dry well. If the Nigerian leader had been as bad as he was being portrayed, he would certainly not have attracted the attention and visibility former President Barack Obama accorded him in the U.S. In May 2014, Nigeria hosted World Economic Summit in Abuja. The week-long event afforded stakeholders from across the world, the opportunity to assess the state of the Nigerian economy and the concomitant security challenge first hand. The impression that was formed in the minds of a majority of the attendees was that the Jonathan Administration had in just three years (as at then) transformed the Nigerian economy to an enviable status. There was indeed a lot of misrepresentation and misreading of the Nigerian situation by the Western media in collaboration with a section of the local media then. They misinformed the public about the capacity of the Jonathan Administration to contain terrorism in the country. They failed to hap on the fact that terrorism in Nigeria like terrorism anywhere in the world is an unconventional war without boundaries. But before the March 28, 2015 presidential election, Jonathan had defeated Boko Haram. The Nigerian economy was indeed the fastest growing economy in Africa and one of the 20 fastest growing economies in the world. -Advertisement- Despite mobilizing scarce national resources to confront the insurgency head on, the Jonathan Administration had really embarked on comprehensive transformation of the entire Nigerian landscape. In terms of social infrastructure, the administration was second to none in recent years. The spirited determination in driving repairs and total reconstruction of many of the nation’s roads was obviously what had resulted to the linkage of all economic centres and increase in food production. Jonathan had guaranteed food security, reduced expenditure of foreign exchange on food imports, diversified the economy, guaranteed foreign exchange and created jobs through the revolution in agriculture. Dry season farming had returned to the North as fertilizer was supplied direct to farmers free of charge. For the first time in over three decades, life had returned to the Nigeria Railway Corporation. Rehabilitation of existing narrow gauge, the construction of new standard gauge rail lines, targeting the extension of the rail network to all state capitals and major agricultural zones, were almost made possible. It is also noteworthy that with the privatization of the power sector in a transparent and credible way, uninterrupted electricity supply was made available to all Nigerians. In the realm of education, the establishment of 12 Federal universities; building and rehabilitation of schools across the country; mainstreaming of Almajiri education and specialized education in different parts of Nigeria, were specific templates adopted by the former President to change the story in that sector. Close on the heels of the former President’s sterling performance in the education sector was his enviable mission to ameliorate the plight of Nigerian youth. In a bid to reduce the army of youth unemployment in the streets in the country, former President Jonathan had created jobs through U-WIN by encouraging and supporting aspiring entrepreneurial youths in Nigeria to develop and nurture their business ideas. Another critical sector of the economy in which the Jonathan Administration had excelled is the oil and gas. The development of local content with the employment and training of Nigerians and encouraging indigenous participation in the sector had brought about stability and peace. There was a marked increase in crude oil production from 700 bpd to 2,500,000 bpd. Also, there was increased gas supply to the power sector vis a vis high value export and increase in Liquidated Natural Gas export opportunities. President Jonathan’s strides in institutional and electoral reforms were legendary. He superintended the 2011 general election widely accepted by both local and international observers as free, fair and credible. Subsequent elections in some states conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), were adjudged to have been generally free and fair. That he even allowed his opponent to “defeat” him was a mark of his reform in the sector. These and many more footprints of former President Jonathan were the reasons why his popularity was soaring by the day. It was therefore no surprise that the Nigerian leader was celebrated and is still being celebrated all over the world as the hero of democracy in Africa. For these, and many more, we want him back as Nigeria’s President come 2023.