…Jails Two Offenders ABUJA – Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) on Tuesday vowed to death without mercy, with anyone cut vandalizing its infrastructures. This is even as one of its staff arrested in a vandalism case was convicted in Kogi, and another vandal gets jail term in Niger state. -Advertisement- In a statement by Mr. Donald Etim, AEDC’s Chief Marketing Officer, the company noted that a report dated 19 May 2022, a staff of AEDC, Bamidele Rasaq who was arrested by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Kogi State has been charged to a Chief Magistrate Court and sentenced to one-year imprisonment over his involvement in the vandalism of AEDC installations. In the light of this arrest, the Chief Marketing Officer of AEDC, Mr. Donald Etim, stated that the company has Zero Tolerance for Vandalism of its Network assets irrespective of whether the perpetrators of such actions are staff of AEDC or members of the general public. He disclosed further that disciplinary measures will take their full course which in this case is outright dismissal and loss of all employee benefits. He added that vandalism of electricity network infrastructure is a serious offence punishable with a Maximum Sentence of Life Imprisonment under Section 1(9) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act LFN 2004. In a related recent incident, an upper Sharia Court sitting in Minna, Niger State, handed a one-year jail term to one Abdulsalamad Abubakar, who was caught vandalizing an AEDC substation in Paida junction of Minna. Abdulsalamad, who was apprehended in the criminal act on the 29th of March, 2022 by an official of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF), was charged to court for contravening Sections 123 and 385 of the Sharia Penal Code law of Niger state, which prescribes five years’ imprisonment punishment for the offence. POLL The convict had earlier been paraded before journalists by the NPF ahead of his arraignment in court, alongside numerous items found in his possession, which include: (1) 15-meter XLPE cable; (2) 300mm incomer cable and (3) 5 meters of 150mm. AEDC in a press statement signed by Mr. Donald Etim assured the public thus: “The Management will not relent in its effort to tackle vandalism and another mischief on its Network. We are committed to ensuring that apprehended vandals are tried in accordance with the law and made to face the consequences of their actions without any prejudice”.To curtail the menace of Vandalism and Energy Theft on its distribution infrastructure, AEDC will continue to partner with security agencies and implores all members of the public to remain vigilant and report suspicious activities around power installations in their areas through its various contact channels.