IBADAN – A member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency, Honourable Shina Peller, is set to launch his newly authored book, The Turning Point, tomorrow in Abuja as part of the activities to mark his 46th birthday. The event, themed National Peace: The Turning Point, will witness the presence of revered royal fathers from all parts of the country, businessmen and women, notable politicians, prominent personalities and professionals in different fields as well as famous Nigerian celebrities. In a statement on Friday by Press Secretary, Office of Honourable Shina Peller, Kola Popoola, “the book, ‘The Turning Point’, is a chronicle of the life of Hon (Dr.) Shina Peller; it is an embodiment his activities, achievements and core leadership ideology that will serve as an inspiration to many in years to come. -Advertisement- “Importantly, the turning point for Nigeria is indeed the unique introduction of a system that inspires a new mindset for the rebuilding of Nigeria. Hon Peller, through the book, exemplifies qualities needed at this point in our history as a nation to experience a true shift in horizon and further reach our optimum potential. The Chief launcher of the book is Alhaji Awwal Garba, CEO of Magma Group of Companies”. In the same vein, the event will witness the presence of Dr. Linus Okorie, the Founder and President, Guardians of the Nation International (GOTNI), as the Keynote Speaker. Expected to perform at the event are Olamide Adedeji famously known as Olamide Bado, Abbey Elias popularly known as Skiibii, Adewale Mayowa Emmanuel, known professionally as Mayorkun, Sodiq Abubakar Yusuf, popularly known as CDQ and other notable personalities in the entertainment industry. As parts of the activities to mark the 46th birthday, Hon Peller will by next week hold another birthday party with his constituents in his hometown, Iseyin, Oyo State as well as celebration with the students of Pacelli School For The Blind & Partially Sighted in Lagos and Schools of handicapped in his constituency.