LAGOS – Analysts in the nation’s economy have emphasised the need for the Federal Government to embark on fundamental reforms to shore up its revenue drive in the country, saying that the commodity markets are experiencing one of the largest supply shocks in decades due to the war in Ukraine. They warned that the sharp rise in input prices, such as energy and fertilisers, could lead to a reduction in food production They said that lower input use will weigh on food production and quality, affecting food availability, rural incomes, and the livelihoods of the poor The analysts also told Daily Independent that the failure of the fiscal and monetary authorities to boost the output capacity of real sector players in the last five years of implementing capital control measures have exacerbated exchange rate pressure, due to growing import bills. They maintained that the efforts of Federal Government was needed to initiate policy measures that will also address political stability and security, legal and regulatory environment, and domestic market size as other influential variables to investors into consideration when designing fiscal strategies to attract investment and economic growth The World Bank Group in its recent Commodity Markets Outlook report warned that the war in Ukraine has dealt a major shock to commodity markets, altering global patterns of trade, production, and consumption in a way that will keep prices at historically high levels through the end of 2024. The increase in energy prices over the past two years has been the largest since the 1973 oil crisis. Price increases for food commodities—of which Russia and Ukraine are large producers—and fertilisers, which rely on natural gas as a production input, have been the largest since 2008. “Overall, this amounts to the largest commodity shock we’ve experienced since the 1970s. POLL As was the case then, the shock is being aggravated by a surge in restrictions in trade of food, fuel and fertilisers,” said Indermit Gill, the World Bank’s Vice President for Equitable Growth, Finance, and Institutions. “These developments have started to raise the specter of stagflation. Policymakers should take every opportunity to increase economic growth at home and avoid actions that will bring harm to the global economy.” Energy prices are expected to rise more than 50 percent in 2022 before easing in 2023 and 2024. Non-energy prices, including agriculture and metals, are projected to increase almost 20 percent in 2022 and will also moderate in the following years. Nevertheless, commodity prices are expected to remain well above the most recent five-year average. In the event of a prolonged war, or additional sanctions on Russia, prices could be even higher and more volatile than currently projected. Because of war-related trade and production disruptions, the price of Brent crude oil is expected to average $100 a barrel in 2022, its highest level since 2013 and an increase of more than 40 percent compared to 2021. Prices are expected to moderate to $92 in 2023—well above the five-year average of $60 a barrel. Natural-gas prices (European) are expected to be twice as high in 2022 as they were in 2021, while coal prices are expected to be 80 percent higher, with both prices at all-time highs. “Commodity markets are experiencing one of the largest supply shocks in decades because of the war in Ukraine,” said Ayhan Kose, Director of the World Bank’s Prospects Group, “The resulting increase in food and energy prices is taking a significant human and economic toll—and it will likely stall progress in reducing poverty. Higher commodity prices exacerbate already elevated inflationary pressures around the world.” which produces the Outlook report. Wheat prices are forecast to increase more than 40 percent, reaching an all-time high in nominal terms this year. That will put pressure on developing economies that rely on wheat imports, especially from Russia and Ukraine. Metal prices are projected to increase by 16 percent in 2022 before easing in 2023 but will remain at elevated levels. “Commodity markets are under tremendous pressure, with some commodity prices reaching all-time highs in nominal terms,” said John Baffes, Senior Economist in the World Bank’s Prospects Group. “This will have lasting knock-on effects. The sharp rise in input prices, such as energy and fertilisers, could lead to a reductioninfoodproductionparticularlyin developing economies. Lower input use willweighonfoodproductionandquality, affecting food availability, rural incomes, and the livelihoods of the poor.” The report’s Special Focus section offers an in-depth exploration of the war’s impact on commodity markets. It also examines how commodity markets responded to similar shocks in the past. The analysis finds that the war’s impact could be longer-lasting than previous shocks for at least two reasons. First, there is less room now to substitute the most affected energy commodities for other fossil fuels—because price increases have been broad-based across all fuels. Second, the increase in prices of some commodities is also driving up prices of other commodities— high natural-gas prices have raised fertiliser prices, putting upward pressure on agricultural prices. In addition, policy responses so far have focused more on tax cuts and subsidies—which often exacerbate supply shortfalls and price pressures—than on long-term measures to reduce demand and encourage alternative sources of supply. The war is also leading to more costly patterns of trade that could result in longer-lasting inflation. It is expected to cause a major diversion of trade in energy. For example, some countries are now seeking coal supplies from more remote locations. At the same time, some major coal importers could step up imports from Russia while reducing demand from other large exporters. This diversion will likely be more costly, the report notes, because it involves greater transportation distances—and coal is bulky and expensive to transport. Similar diversions are occurring with natural gas and oil. In the near-term, higher prices threaten to disrupt or delay the transition to cleaner forms of energy. Several countries have announced plans to increase production of fossil fuels. High metal prices are also driving up the cost of renewable energy, which depends on metals such as aluminium and battery-grade nickel. Dr. Muda Yusuf, Founder/CEO Centre for the Promotion Of Private Enterprise (CPPE),and former Director General of Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in a chat with Daily Independent, said the war will lead to more costly patterns of trade that could result in longer-lasting inflation. He said: ”The war is expected to cause a major diversion of trade in energy. We, therefore, implored the Federal Government to enact initiatives to support employment and income, including expanding safety nets with a food component to mitigate current rising fiscal deficit” He also tasked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to play a key role in pursuing unconventional monetary policies that will establish various channels to inject liquidity in the economy by expanding the options for lending to the private sector and to the government He said: “The resulting increase in food and energy prices currently ranging in the economy is taking a significant human and economic toll—and it will likely stall progress in reducing poverty. “Part of the private sector support can be offered through rediscount credit lines to banks so that they, in turn, may maintain soft lines of credit for the working capital of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), including small and family farmers. Those soft rediscount lines , or even outright grants, using a non-bank channel, should require businesses to keep employees on the payroll. “In particular, these lines of credit could be crucial to support operators in food systems (especially family farmers), the health sector, and other crucial activities” An Executive director of one of the new generation banks in Nigeria, told Daily Independent that global commodity markets are experiencing one of the largest supply shocks in decades because of the war in Ukraine “The resulting increase in food and energy prices in Nigeria as a result of the war is taking a significant human and economic toll and it will likely stall progress in reducing poverty. “Policymakers should take every opportunity to increase economic growth at home and avoid actions that will bring harm to the global economy”, the banker said. He called on the three tiers of governments to reprioritise public spending by focusing on projects that will protect critical development expenditures as well as support economic activities and access to basic services in the country. The banker called for excise reforms through policy measures, property tax reforms by updating/completing property records and Value-Added Tax (VAT) administration and plugging compliance gaps to improve revenue mobilisation as they had potential to raise over N10 trillion annually. Auwal Musa Rafsanjani ,the Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), told Daily Independent that there was need for the Federal Government to employ cost-based measures, such as tax allowances, tax credits and tax deferrals to stave off the impact of the war. He advised that the Federal Government can mitigate the rising fiscal risk by implementing a national response plan that would focus on four interrelated spheres: health; the supply and demand of essential goods and services; the domestic financial circuit in local currency; and the foreign currency market, linked to international trade and external debt. He added: “Government must address basic supply and demand issues to prevent shortages, price spikes, and suffering in the short term. It is essential to ensure the production and distribution of food and medicines, which in turn requires keeping transportation and basic public services (water, energy, and communications) up and running”. In its weekly report on: “Domestic Macroeconomy: FG’s 2022 Revised Budget: Fiscal Deficit Estimate Jumps on Sizeable Increase in Subsidy Provision”, Afrivest analysts,said: “We believe reflected the quick pass-through effect of the spike in the prices of energy goods in the month” “Given our weak optimism about the likely improvement in revenue from oil and gas, independent revenue, and revenue from other sources as earlier captured in our January 2022 macroeconomic outlook report (A Mix of a Boom & Gloom), we maintain that actual deficit for 2022 may top ₦10.0tn. “Second, the IMF in its April 2022 edition of the World Economic Outlook (WEO) report downgraded global GDP growth projections for 2022 by 80bps to 3.6%, but raised projection for SSA by 10bps to 3.8%, due largely to the 70bps upgrade in Nigeria’s growth forecast to 3.4%”. They argued that the upgrade in Nigeria’s growth outlook was hinged on the sustained gains in oil prices this year as a result of the geopolitical tensions in Eastern Saturday, April 30, 2022 Afrinvest West Africa Limited “We opined that the lack of political will to address the lingering structural challenges such as high insecurity, poor infrastructure, and public sector inefficiency would continue to weigh on the country’s growth potential in the near term. Consequently, we peg our base case growth projection for 2022 at 2.9%.”