Dozens of members of the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC)  from Ikole Local Government area of Ekiti State stormed the Ajilosun State Secretariat of the party to protest an alleged political Marginalisation of the area. The protesters who arrived the APC office on Monday  with placards with various  inscription such as Stop the Political Marginalisation of Ikole LG, Its the turn of Ikole LG to produce Senator  ,Give Ikole Senate ticket and so on  sang solidarity songs for the party and its Flagbearer, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji (BAO). They urged the APC leaders  to give commensurate  rewards  to the Council’s loyalty and contributions to the various successes recorded in the party by allowing one of their own to fly the Senatorial ticket . -Advertisement- The aggrieved party men  argued that the four other Local Government areas of Oye,Ido-Osi,Moba and Ilejeneje have had opportunities to produce senators on more than two occasions each ,stressing that Ikole which claimed is the biggest of them cannot be isolated and marginalised. Unfortunately, there was no party officials to receive or  hear the grievances of the protesters,they however stayed in front of the secretariate for hours singing solidarity songs and demanding equity and fairness from the party . Reechoing their position, Sunday Awogbemi ,who spoke on behalf of the protesters said APC as  a progressive party believes in the principle of justice, equity and fairness and cannot afford any important section of the State to be poorly treated politically or marginalised.. He reaffirmed their belief in the party and its candidate but urged stakeholders to,as matter urgency  see to their grievances and accede to their without further delay . Awogbemi alleged that the area had been marginalized  in the past, expressing that since the return of democracy rule no one from the area had represented Ekiti North Senatorial District at the National Assembly. POLL Also speaking ,another Ikole leader,Francis Ojo said the Local government has quality and Qualified sons and daughters who could deliver if given the opportunity . He urged the party executive to look towards the direction of Ikole to ensure fairness and equity in the distribution of posit The protesters, however, drummed support for the presidential ambition of Governor Kayode Fayemi with the hope that Ikole Local government indigene would be considered to fly the flag of the party for Senatorial District Election in the 2023 General Elections. 