The gubernatorial candidate of the Accord Party, (AP), in the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti State, Basorun Reuben Famuyibo, has called on the state governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, not to set the state on fire ahead of the election. Famuyibo said this while reacting to the alleged plans by the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC), to unleash violence on the electorate on election day. The alleged defacing and destruction of his posters and banners by suspected APC lackeys and the untoward event that happened in Efon Alaaye last month, when some people were shot and vehicles vandalised when the candidate of the Social Democratic Party, (SDP), Segun Oni was there on the campaign. -Advertisement- In a statement by his media aide, Olajide Omojolomoju and made available to journalists on Monday, Famuyibo warned against the insinuations making the rounds that the APC had bought all available canes, popularly known as ‘pankere’, in Ado Ekiti and has perfected plans to unleash violence on the electorate on election day, using some known popular thugs, had better be nothing but rumours. According to him, “I’m using this medium to warn Fayemi not to set Ekiti State on fire ahead of the election. Even though he was young during the 1983 fracas in old Ondo State, let it be known to him that we cannot afford such repeating itself in Ekiti State. “The 1983 events in old Ondo State should resonate with the powers that be. We don’t want a repeat of that in Ekiti State. “What happened between late Adekunle Ajasin and Akin Omoboriowo, which led to the wanton killings and destruction of property in the old Ondo State is still fresh in our memory, and we don’t want a repeat in Ekiti State. The wounds are yet to heal. “He should also know that nobody is a custodian of violence and nobody has the monopoly of violence, and Ekiti people are not ready to turn the state to a theatre of violence.” POLL He called on the people of the state to remain focused and not be intimidated, asking them to vote according to their conscience on election day. Meanwhile, Basorun Famuyibo has thrown his weight behind the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, as it extends its industrial action by another eight weeks. He said that the last 20 years had not been good for education in the country, wondering why a four-year course of study will extend to eight years. He added that there is no need for the 2023 election if the issues leading to the ASUU strike are not resolved and the students return to the classroom.