Florentino Perez told the Real Madrid dressing room that Kylian Mbappe will not be signing for the club on Friday night. The 23-year-old – whose current contract at the Parc des Princes expires next month – is set to announce his decision to stay with Paris Saint-Germain this weekend, having agreed terms with both clubs before ultimately opting to remain in France. A report from Spain states that following Los Blancos’ 0-0 draw at home to Real Betis on Friday, Bernabeu president Perez told their star-studded squad that Mbappe would not be joining them in the summer transfer window after months of heavy links. Mbappe’s mother, Fayza Lamar, shed new light on the situation on Friday and told Kora Plus that there is “no difference” between the two offers. “We will not have new meetings to discuss Mbappe’s future, these meetings are now over,” Lamar stated. “Now we have found an agreement with both Real Madrid and PSG and the discussions are over because it is Kylian who has to choose now. -Advertisement- “The two offers, that of PSG and Real, are almost identical. At Real, my son will have control of his image rights. We will now await his decision. In the Real Madrid offer we have full power of image rights, on the other hand there is an economic balance that rewards this thing. In short, there is no difference between the two are similar.” According to Sky Sports, PSG have offered the forward a £4million-a-month salary to secure his signature as well as an eye-watering £100m signing-on fee. Much has been said regarding Mbappe’s future, with Los Blancos boss Carlo Ancelotti largely remaining coy while his players turned on the charm offensive. Karim Benzema, who plays alongside the PSG ace for France, has openly admitted his desire to link up with Mbappe at club level. “With Mbappe, we get on well because we know what the other is going to do. For example, we both like to go left but we will never both be there at the same time: the other will come inside, or drop deeper,” Benzema explained to L’Equipe. “I like playing with him in national team and I would like to play with him in club. I think we would score double the goals. Or maybe even triple!”