Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai has been elected by the All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates to represent Yobe South senatorial district at the National Assembly with 186 votes. Yobe South senatorial district is made up of four local government areas of Fune, Fika, Nangere and Potiskum all with a total of 44 electoral wards respectively. The senatorial primary election which was peacefully conducted at the Muhammad Idrissa Cinema, Potiskum town on Saturday amidst tight security. -Advertisement- Ballot boxes for the four senatorial aspirants were set in front of the delegates, agents and the electoral panel. They were all labelled with the aspirants’ names. The APC National Officer and Chairman of the electoral panel, Bashir Maina Dungus announced the results after the voting as follows “we have conducted elections, counted votes, will now read the results, Dr Umar Ibrahim -0, Senator Mohammed Hassan -0, Abba Goje -0 and Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai -186. I Bashir Maina Dungus on behalf of the electoral panel declare Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai the winner and returned elected”. In his address shortly after the declaration, Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomai thanked the Almighty Allah for the peaceful conduct of the primary election “that saw to my emergence, as the Senatorial Candidate of our great Party, the APC for our Zone of Yobe South at the 2023 elections. I wish to extend my special gratitude to His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni, the Executive Governor of Yobe State and our leader for appreciating the successes recorded in the three years of representation of my people and support for my nomination for the second tenure”. “I am also extremely grateful to the Deputy Governor of Yobe State Hon. Barde Gubana, Hon Members of the State Assembly in our Zone, the Chairman of our Party in the State Alhaji Mohammed Gadaka and other State EXCO members, the Chairmen and other Officials of our Party at all tiers in our Zone, Local Government Chairmen in the Zone, other major stakeholders in our Zone, the generality of our Party membership men, women and youths for their tremendous support since I joined politics and for applauding my achievements”. POLL “My gratitude also goes to the members of my press corps for their dogged determination and the widest of publicity for my cause. My appreciation also extends to various clubs, associations and religious groups in our Zone for their unflinching support. My victory today further emboldens me to become much more resolute and committed to justifying the confidence of our good people of Yobe South if am re entrusted with another mandate at the 2023 elections, by the will of the Almighty Allah”. “I wish to therefore call upon all those who contested with me and their supporters to bury whatever differences created by the primaries to rally behind our Party to see to its victory in all the elective positions in 2023. In the last three years of my service to our people, in spite of the challenges brought about by the effects of covid 19 and other setbacks to our economy. “I struggled very much to ensure that our campaign promises are translated to reality. Amidst these challenges, we have strived to make an impact by bringing dividends of democracy across our Zone through various projects and programmes. “I wish to re-assure our people that If I am given the mandate for another tenure by the grace of Allah, we shall not only make further consolidation on these gains but also give special attention to other critical areas in laying a solid foundation for sustainable wealth creation, reduction of poverty and greater socio-economic stimulus”. “Since my involvement in politics, I have ensured that we are driven by politics without bitterness devoid of character assassination and other acts of hooliganism in order to keep our Zone peaceful and united with a sense of purpose. Alhamdulillah, we have attained this to a larger extent and further call upon our teeming supporters to continue with these good traits for peace to continue to prevail in our Zone”. We are all witnesses to the retrogression brought upon us by the insurgency that has devastated the entire socio-economic fabric of our communities. We must therefore ensure that our Zone remains peaceful because, without such, all our efforts for economic regeneration and social cohesion will be in vain. “Finally, I wish to reiterate my appreciation to all those who supported the cause for my nomination of our great Party to carry its flag in my second bid to represent our good people of Yobe South in the Senate”.