England defender Ben Chilwell received a stirring round of applause from his Chelsea teammates as he ended his injury nightmare by returning to first-team training. The former Leicester City left-back has been out of action for the past six months after suffering an anterior cruciate ligament injury in the Blues’ Champions League victory over Juventus back in November. There was originally hope that he would be out for shorter than first feared, with surgery initially avoided, but Chilwell was eventually forced to go under the knife to correct the issue, ruling him out for the remainder of the campaign. He has since stepped up his recovery by training with Chelsea’s development side, whilst the defender has also been pictured involved in preparations with his senior teammates. And upon his return to first-team training, he was given a wonderful reception by his Blues colleagues. -Advertisement- In footage shared by the West London club, he was shown receiving a round of applause from his teammates, whilst Chilwell also shared heartfelt embraces with Blues’ captain Cesar Azpilicueta and boss Thomas Tuchel. However, even though he has stepped up his battle towards reaching full fitness, he still appears to be some way off of being in contention for a return to competitive action. Asked whether Chilwell could play before the end of the 2021/22 season last month, Tuchel replied: “I don’t think so. Ben will now go into the transition period where he can join in with the academy team for training on a tactical level over the next few weeks. We will give him time and won’t try to rush Chilly.” The German continued: “This will be his next steps and hopefully he can join in with first-team training before the end of the season, but there will be no matches at this kind of level for him.” Before his injury, Chilwell was in excellent form having claimed the left-sided wing-back role in Tuchel’s system as his own. The 25-year-old had made 12 appearances in all competitions, scoring three goals before his season was cruelly ended. Since then, he has missed 41 games in all competitions and has proven to be a huge miss, with the Blues falling to defeat in both the FA Cup and Carabao Cup finals, whilst also having undergone an inconsistent period in the Premier League. Chelsea have since been forced to rely on Spanish full-back Marcos Alonso, who has produced a respectable four goals and six assists for the season. POLL Ironically, Chelsea take on Chilwell’s former side this week as they host Leicester City at Stamford Bridge on Thursday. Whilst the same fixture was key to the Blues’ Champions League qualification last season, they have already sealed their place in the competition next term courtesy of Arsenal ’s defeat at the hands of Newcastle United on Monday evening.