Tributes poured in from around the world on Saturday after the UAE announced the death of President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. He was 73. Singapore’s President Halimah Yacob and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong have mourned the passing of late His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. President Yacob said in her letter, “As the second President of the UAE, His Highness built upon the strong foundations laid by His Highness the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan to strengthen the unity of the UAE and enhance its development. Throughout his life, His Highness was dedicated to serving the people of the UAE and to bring prosperity to the country. His Highness will always be remembered for his love and care for the people.” -Advertisement- She added, “Our thoughts and prayers are with Your Highness and the people of the UAE during this time of bereavement.” Prime Minister Lee wrote, “His Highness Sheikh Khalifa dedicated his life in service of the people of Abu Dhabi as well as the UAE. His Highness played a key role in strengthening the unity of the federation and improving the lives of his people. During His Highness’ reign, relations between Singapore and the UAE were strengthened with the establishment of the Singapore Embassy in Abu Dhabi in 2007.” He added, “His Highness’ leadership laid a strong foundation for bilateral relations, which have since been elevated with the Singapore-UAE Comprehensive Partnership (SUCP) signed in 2019.” Indonesian President Joko Widodo has mourned the death of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa. “It was with profound sadness that I learnt of the passing of President Sheikh Khalifa,” Widodo tweeted early on Saturday. POLL “He will forever be remembered as a great leader that solidified the prosperity of UAE,” added the Indonesian President. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, President of the Republic of Maldives, has expressed condolences on the passing of Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan. “Saddened to hear of the passing of President of UAE, Sheikh Khalifa . A visionary leader, His Highness was a close friend of Maldives,” he tweeted on Friday evening. Ilir Meta, President of the Republic of Albania, has condoled the death of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa. “I learned with sadness the passing of the President of the UAE, Sheikh Khalifa,” President Meta tweeted late on Friday. He praised Sheikh Khalifa’s contributions in strengthening Albania-UAE relations, development and progress of the UAE. The Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs has mourned the death of Sheikh Khalifa. “Profoundly saddened by the passing of UAE President Sheikh Khalifa. During his tenure, Greece-UAE relations have expanded exponentially,” the foreign ministry tweeted late on Friday. “We extend our sincere condolences & deepest sympathy to his family, the people and Gov’t of our close friend and strategic partner UAE,” the ministry added. The French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs mourned the death of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who passed away today, Friday. In a statement, the ministry said: “France learned with great sadness of the death of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah Almighty have mercy on him, and extends its deepest condolences to the UAE leadership and people.” “With the death of Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the people of the Emirates lost a leader respected by all, and we commend his deep commitment to stability and peace in the region and the world,” the statement added. Governor of Tokyo Yuriko Koike has cancelled her trip to the Middle East, which was due to start today, following the passing of Sheikh Khalifa. Koike, an Arabic speaker who was formerly the Chair of the Japan-UAE Parliamentary Friendship League in Japan, shared condolences on behalf of the citizens of Tokyo, expressing her sadness and sympathy for the people of the UAE. “We shall always remember Sheikh Khalifa’s distinguished accomplishments in furthering friendship and goodwill between Japan and the UAE,” Koike said in a statement.