LOKOJA – Against the backdrop of the noticeable flaws in the body politics, an international election monitor, Hamzat Lawal, has charged Nigerian youths to actively participate in electoral processes and structures in order to bring about positive change. Hamzat lawal, Chief Executive officer, Connect Development, an anti-corruption activist.co-founder of Follow The Money, gave the charge on Saturday on the sidelines of APC primary election for Kogi Central Senatorial District held in Okene, headquarters of Central District of the state. Lawal who averred that, for the desired change to occur, the youth should change their attitudes from being passive in the democratic evolution to buy into the nitty gritty of electoral processes. -Advertisement- He urge them to first of all, register as a member of political parties, attend wards, local government, state and National meetings, stressing that standing on the edge would not bring meaningful governance.According to him, remaining aloof will be antithetical to good governance, hence, they should be part of the structure and processes of their parties. He added that, although, all the citizenry cannot be partisan, but they could be identified with political system in order to enthroned democratic dividends. He said, although, the nation’s democracy is very young and evolving, he was pleased with its fast growth and its high level of progress. He commended president Muhammadu Buhari for his courage to have signed into law the 2022 Electoral law as Amended, stressed the need for INEC to be properly funded to enable her to build human capacity to ensure seamless services to the Nation. ”Our Democracy is very young, and in as much as we want it to grow very fast, we need to put all hands on deck. For the process to remain seamless, INEC must be provided with resources, so that they could build human capacity in her processes and systems. We need to ensure adequate security to guarantee safety of personnel, Sensitive materials and indeed the electorate in order to instill confidence in them to exercise their franchise. POLL ”For us to curtail voters’ apathy, security should be the first point of Government, as they owe us a duty as our constitutional rights” he demanded. Lawal, who has monitored elections in Nigeria, United States, United Kingdom; Kenya and other parts of Africa, challenged politicians and lawmakers to put aside personal and selfish interests, insisting that ,even though the lawmakers are primarily concerned with law making, they should not be a judge and a jury at the same time. He lamented at the scenario in which the lawmakers allegedly wanted to get at some categories of Nigerians through section 84 of the amended Acts, however, wanted themselves to be compulsive delegates. He advised the party Executives to consider the nation first in their choices of delegates and Agents and to allow them to do their work. While condemning the use of money to buy the consciences of the delegates and all those in the election Management chain ,urge them to ensure that only those with relevant democratic credentials are allowed to fly their flags at the general elections.