Senator Gabriel Suswan, the Senator representing Benue East in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, has been appointed to lead the Presidential Campaign Council of Rivers State governor, Udom Emmanuel, one of the presidential aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Suswan, who was in Lagos last weekend, met with newsmen and spoke on the qualities of Udom and why he is the best to succeed Muhammadu Buhari, claiming Udom has what it takes to revamp the economy. Our Correspondent, AKINWUNMI KING, who was part of the session, brings the excerpts: Why do you think Governor Udom Emmanuel is the most suitable to become the next President of Nigeria? I have been in a leadership position in this country for quite some time. I went to the House of Representatives and spent eight years, I became governor and spent eight years and, presently, I am in the Senate. And from that vantage position, I am able to ascertain who is sincere, who has the qualities and who has shown, by antecedents, that they can do a job. I am saying that this gentleman has shown, by antecedents, that he can do the job. What Nigeria needs now is a man who can put things in the right perspective. We are at that point, where Nigeria at the moment, demands a capable hand that can urgently pull it out going by the individual’s track record of achievements. His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel is the man. Can you specify those qualities that make you feel Governor Udom is the best of all the aspirants? So, we have an aspirant who is running on his own steam as a Nigerian who is convinced that he has what it takes to return the country to the path of progress. This is a man, who is able to create something out of nothing. Put the 36 sub-national governments and the Federal Government together; then you can clearly see the distinction made by Governor Emmanuel with Ibom Air, for instance, which has a reputation for excellent service. He has also established a factory that produces the second largest number of syringes in West Africa. For me to accept to serve in this capacity means that I am convinced that Emmanuel has what it takes to preside over the affairs of Nigeria and make a good job of it. But the argument about zoning and consensus is still a thorny issue within your party, the PDP. Some Northerners are still insisting that power must remain in the North… We have had more Northerners in leadership positions. Can we say this fact is reflected in the development indices in that part of the country? Where do we have the most challenges in this country? Is it not in the North? The time has come for Nigeria and politicians especially to do away with issues bothering on where someone comes from. What Nigeria needs at the moment, is someone that is competent and understands all the nuances around the nation’s politics. His Excellency is contesting as someone who has what it takes to lead the country. We must not be contesting elections today on the basis of primordial sentiments, saying, ‘it is our own turn’, ‘it is their turn’. The focus should be on who can move Nigeria forward, not who will take us from top to bottom. “Our principal has the pedigree and the antecedent to take the country from where it is now to where Nigerians want it to be. We have placed a high premium on where we come from that we have left the country to degenerate to a point where things are terrible. All over the world, presidential campaigns are always based on the plan for the economy. When the economy is set, every other thing will be built on it. So the question of where someone comes from should not even arise. We are in a critical period when nothing in this country is working. Everything has broken down. We are not even sure what the foreign policy of Nigeria is. Less endowed African countries are now poking their fingers in our face and we can’t do anything. The pride we used to have as Nigerians is gone. It is unfortunate that as a country, we do not have a clear-cut foreign policy. Can you tell me Nigeria’s stand on any issue relating to how we handle issues with other countries; our stand on international issues? Even smaller countries around us have great foreign policies. His Excellency, Udom Emmanuel is ready to give Nigeria a foreign policy that would attract deserved respect for Nigeria. When I had a private Law practice in Lagos many years ago, I would go to Ghana and change a few thousands of Naira and I would become a millionaire. I could spend a fun-filled weekend in Ghana then. Unfortunately, the Ghanaian Cedi is now stronger than the Nigerian Naira. Look at our debt profile, it is scandalous. So, what should Nigerians expect from Governor Udom Emmanuel if eventually he clinches the PDP ticket? POLL His Excellency’s campaign will revolve around revamping the economy of this country that is in a shambles. It will revolve around infrastructure- the need to improve the power situation in the country; road and rail travel and generally fix the infrastructure deficit in the country. The campaign will revolve around resolving the insecurity situation in the country. Bandits and terrorists have taken over the country and not even one of them is being arrested. But in Akwa Ibom State governed by Emmanuel, there is nothing like insecurity. The campaign focus would also be on Foreign Policy, job creation, and giving women and the youth their pride of place in government and society. Look at the state of affairs under the current government and administration, it is nothing to write home about. I strongly believe that returning Nigeria to a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government and enthroning an Emmanuel administration would fix the nation. You are from the middle belt and, looking at your experience in the country’s political terrain, one would wonder why you choose to support the aspiration of Governor Udom when you can also vie for the office. We are talking about a man who has done a lot to improve the economy of his state. Whereas Nigeria, as a country, does not have a national carrier, Akwa Ibom today has a functional airline that is first class in terms of operation and management. He creates money by the kinds of projects he does. It takes competence, intellect for someone to do what he does. Apart from South Africa, the biggest syringe company in Africa is in Akwa Ibom State. I can also confirm to you that some other companies are concluding arrangements to bring in their money to establish big businesses in the state. That is possible because they see a viable economy in the state and a secured environment. If Governor Udom becomes Nigeria’s next president, he would replicate the outstanding achievements he is currently recording in Akwa Ibom State in the entire country. As regards zoning, what many are clamouring for is that it is the turn of the South to produce the next President. Don’t you see this argument as a plus for your aspirant? What Nigeria needs at the moment is someone that is competent and understands all the nuances around the nation’s politics. His Excellency is contesting as someone who has what it takes to lead the country. As I said earlier, we must not be contesting elections today on the basis of primordial sentiments. Our focus should be on who can move Nigeria forward. Our principal has the pedigree and the antecedent to take the country from where it is now to where Nigerians want it to be. We have placed a high premium on where we come from that we have left the country to degenerate to a point where things are terrible. Issues that touch Nigerians, even babies that are born today, are what he wants to address. It is a project that will change our lives positively. It will not take us from top to bottom. On the issue of consensus as a method of selecting a candidate in the PDP, it was as faulty as zoning as a wrong person could emerge from such a process. I am one person who believes in individual capability, not zoning. ‘It is our turn’ is no longer the issue today. In developed societies, father and son can become president back to back provided the people find them competent. So, consensus to who, or for what? If it revolves around a credible candidate that understands the problems of this country and is ready to do the job, it makes sense.