LAGOS – There are indications that Obafemi Hamzat may not return as Deputy Governor of Lagos State even if Babajide Sanwo-Olu gets a second term. A top APC source in Lagos told our Correspondent that Hamzat is presently consulting with his followers and would make his decision known very soon. The source disclosed that Hamzat is likely to join the race for the number one seat, meaning he may be challenging his boss in the party’s governorship primary, or may run for the Lagos West Senatorial seat, depending on the outcome of his consultations. The Lagos West Senatorial District seat has been thrown open after the incumbent Senator representing the area, Olamilekan Adeola Solomon, declared his intention to contest from his home state of Ogun. Senator Adeola declared his intention to run for the seat of Ogun West Senatorial District in the 2023 election last week at an event held in Ilaro. Hamzat had always been rumoured to have the plan of relocating to Epe after the first tenure with Sanwo-Olu where he initially intended to run for the office of governor before reshaping it to senatorial after power bloc advice. As it was gathered, the deputy governor had been advised by his camp to relocate to Ifako/Ijaiye, his late father’s base, and contest the Lagos West Senatorial District. Meanwhile, the source who spoke to our correspondent, maintained that Sanwo- Olu’s second term bid, which the governor’s supporters claimed had been settled, was still hanging in the balance. POLL According to the source, “Those who claimed that the GAC has approved Sanwo- Olu’s second term are only deceiving themselves. “We all know how the GAC works, anytime such a decision is taken, they will always issue a press statement to notify the members of the party. “Apart from that, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who will, by the grace of God Almighty, become our party’s flag bearer and eventually the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, will not endorse anyone like that this time around. Everyone vying for any position will definitely contest in the primaries. “You know that Asiwaju himself has been telling the party to allow a free and fair process to produce the presidential candidate, so you think the same Asiwaju will now endorse anyone for any position? “Don’t be deceived by all those fake news and rumours they are spreading out there.”