Parents of a two-year-old baby girl have called on philanthropists and governments to come to their aid to save the life of their baby who has a heart problem. The toddler, Esther Fiyinfoluwa Adetoro, needs N6m to stay alive through a surgical operation. Mr. Olusegun Adetoro, the father of the ailing baby, disclosed to newsmen in Akure, the Ondo State capital, that the baby was on January 15, 2020 diagnosed of a congenital heart disease (tetralogy of fallot). -Advertisement- The medical enchocardiography report issued and signed by Dr. A.D. Adenle, Medical Director of Biket Medical Centre, Cardiac Consultation Unit, Osogbo, Osun State stated that the left atrium of the baby is not dilated, while the right atrium is dilated. In the medical report from Biket Medical Centre, Cardiac Consultation Unit, Osogbo, Osun State; signed by the Medical Director, Dr. A.D. Adenle, said the left atrium is not dilated, while the right atrium is dilated. According to the 2-dimensional echocardiography report, some defects were detected the vein, atrium, ventricle, great arteries, pericardium, pulse wave doppler among others, which is constituting pains for the toddler. The report reads: “The left ventricular outlook tract is unobstructed and the flow is laminar. The aortic valve is tri-leaflet with no evidence of significant stenosis or regurgitation. The left and right coronary arteries were clearly identified following the normal course.” t The second medical report signed by Dr. O.A. Olubosede of University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital Complex, Akure, Ondo State, reads: “Child is diagnosed with a congenital heart disease (Tetralogy of Fallot). She will be needing about six million Naira for the surgery to correct the defect. POLL “The child is the 3rd and last child in a monogamous family. The parents are middle class civil servants unable to meet the financial obligation for the corrective surgery and therefore need financial assistance.” The report with Ref: UNIMEDTH/408/068/ dated May 4, 2020, stated that the baby would need N6m for surgical operation to stay alive. “The child is the 3rd and last child in a monogamous family. The parents are middle class civil servants unable to meet the financial obligation for the corrective surgery and therefore need financial assistance.” Calling on philanthropists and government at all levels to save his baby’s life, Mr. Adetoro, who resides at No 4 Igbatoro Road, Akure, said he had expended so much to keep his baby alive in spite of his inadequate financial strength as civil servant. He appealed to every prospective individual or governments, institutions that might want to assist him to contact him or his wife on 08068702540 and 07034847726 or pay directly to Adetoro Cornelius Olusegun, Union Bank, 0111057750.