IBADAN – Senator Teslim Folarin, winner of the All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship primary election on Friday dedicated his victory at the primary to Ex-Governors of the state, late Senator Abiola Ajimobi and late Alao Akala. Folarin also dedicated his victory to his late wife Barrister Angela Folarin. The three-term Senator, who polled 954, ahead of Chief Bayo Adelabu popularly known as Penkelemesi that polled 327 votes, and Barrister Akeem Agbaje polled 16 votes, while Engr. Hakeem Alao polled 6 votes, the number of void votes is 11 was declared the winner by APC National Electoral Committee led by Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi. -Advertisement- Speaking shortly after his declaration Folarin said, “I’m dedicating this victory to my late wife, we are not here by accident, we have been working for this for the last three years and I’m so grateful to the delegates, to late Governor Akala, late Governor Ajimobi team and to the leaders of our party, I feel happy and the next stage is to get Governor Seyi Makinde out of Oyo State Government House. “This is not about me, it’s about the party, in the next coming week I’m planning to visit those who contested with me, they are going to be part of my government, we are going to work together as a team,” Folarin said. While answering journalists about the other contestants that left shortly before the counting of votes, Folarin said, they informed me when they’re about to leave, they don’t just leave without my consent nor out of violence, we are going to address them to see the reason why we all need to work together because our primary aims is to kick Makinde out of office, so my victory is for the party, and I’m going to start the work to ensure that our party win at the coming election.” Dr Abdulahi Bello secretary of Oyo state All Progressive Congress (APC) National Electoral Committed and returning officers, declared Senator Folarin the winner of the peaceful primary that was held at the Liberty Stadium Oke-Ado Ibadan, at about 10:55 pm on Friday, May 27, 2022. Dr. Abudulahi said, “six people contested in the primary. POLL Abdulahi noted that Chief Adeniyi Akintola SAN, who had earlier announced his decision to pull out of the election due to what he described as “doctored delegates’ list” has zero (0) votes, while ex-commissioner for health in the state, Dr Abdulazeez Adeduntan has 2 votes, three-term Senator Teslim Folarin polled 954, Chief Bayo Adelabu popularly known as Penkelemesi polled 327 votes, Barrister Akeem Agbaje polled 16 votes, while Engr. Hakeem Alao polled 6 votes, number of void votes is 11. Senator Tokunbo Afikuyomi, Chairman of Oyo APC NEC and Dr Abdulahi presented the certificate of return to Senator Teslim Kolawole Folarin.