AKURE – Chief Alex Ajipe, one of the prominent aspirants to Ondo North Senatorial District seat on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday called on the people of the state to ensure they elect representatives who would be accountable to them. The CEO of Klick Connect firm gave the charge while addressing delegates of APC at Akoko North West and Akoko North-East local government areas in preparation for the party’s primary. Ajipe, who began the touring of the six local governments in the senatorial district, implored delegates of the party to have attitudinal change towards elections with a view to electing personalities who would attract development to the district and impact on the younger generation. -Advertisement- Addressing the party’s executives at the local government level, Ajipe charged the people to join hands and be ready to make sacrifices in their decisions to elect representatives to the Senate, National Assembly and the state House of Assembly in the coming general elections. At Oke Agbe, the headquarters of Akoko North West Local Government Area, the APC chieftain advised the people to seize the opportunity provided by general elections to set themselves free from socio-economic and political bondage. Appreciating the efforts of the lawmaker representing Akoko Northwest/Akoko Northeast federal constituency at the National Assembly, Bunmi Tunji-Ojo for his sterling performance, the senatorial aspirant emphasised that there’s need for a better representation at the Senate to create better synergy with Tunji-Ojo in the district. He said: “If you look round, it is for anyone to know that I am the most qualified of all the aspirants. I’ve been the only consistent person among the lot. I have never left the progressives to fold since I entered politics. “My contributions to the economic development of the state is second to none. How many of them have their businesses in Ondo State? These are truths that can be verified anytime.” POLL Ajipe told the party’s executive at Akoko North East Local Government Area that he was spurred to enter the race because of the need to put in place sustainable basic amenities, such as good road networks, potable water, basic health care services, affordable primary and secondary education and grants to alleviate the suffering of the people. “I am pained anytime I see little children drop out of school because their parents cannot pay their school fees.  But I believe that things can be better than what we have got in the last 12 years,” Ajipe said. He, however, promised to deliver on all his electoral promises if he were given the opportunity to represent Ondo North at the Senate. Director General, Ajipe Campaign Organization, Barrister Tolu Babaleye, said it is time to put an end to what he described as “12 years of stagnation in Ondo north.” In their responses, the Chairman and Vice Chairman of APC in Akoko Northwest Local Government Area, both noted that the district needs the services of a young, vibrant and agile person like Ajipe to represent the district at the Senate, promising to work for his(Ajipe’s) victory at the polls.