BENIN – A former Speaker of Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Kabiru Adjoto has emerged the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Akoko Edo Federal Constituency to contest for the house of Representatives in the 2023 general election. Adjoto defeated two other contestants, Ema Agbaje and Bakonle Balogun at the primary election held at the PDP secretariat in Igarra, Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo, on Sunday. The Chairman of the Primary Election Committee appointed by the PDP National Working Committee, Mr Endurance Edughu said that due process was followed during the primaries. -Advertisement- Udughu who announced the result said Mr Adjoto scored 28 votes to emerge winner, while Mr Agbaje got one votes and Mr Balogun one vote. According to Edughu 30 delegates participated at the primaries with on person absent, adding that the election was free, fair, and peaceful and conducted in accordance with the party’s constitution. Speaking to journalists, the ex-Edo speaker thanked the delegates for voting for him and promised to work with members of the party to ensure PDP win the constituency. “PDP is strong and formidable in Akoko Edo, haven’t been in the Edo state house of assembly and as a former Edo speaker I am tested and trusted when it comes to legislative busy,” he said. In the same development, , Mr Yekini Idiaye, a current member of the Edo State House of Assembly have emerged the PDP candidate for the Akoko Edo Constituency 11 in Edo. POLL Idiaye, who is seeking a second tenure in the state house of assembly emerged winner with 15 votes to defeat Emmanuel Fashanu with zero vote. The PDP Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Mr Odion Omokhoidu said 15 delegates participate in the primary with 3-Adhoc delegates drawn from each wards “In line with the constitutional provision of our great party, primaries 15 Adhoc delegates voted at the election and Mr Idiaye polled 15 votes. “I hereby declared YekinI Idiaye as winner of the primary and returned as the PDP candidate for Akoko Edo Constituency 1,” he said. Idiaye thanked the delegates for voting for him to flag the party ticket come 2023 election. He, however, urged party members to unite and ensure victory for the PDP during the polls.