AWKA  – Anambra State Governor Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo met with Landlords in Onitsha as part of his continued engagements with stakeholders across the State. The Onitsha meeting ĺheld at Sharon House dialogue on issues confronting the metropolis. Soludo lamented that until recently Onitsha was one of the biggest commercial cities in Africa but regretted that the city is almost ‘dead’ as a result of the decadence that had set in. -Advertisement- Onitsha, once reputed as the City in South Eastern Nigeria with the largest market in West Africa, he continued, has lost that prominent position, as new businesses and investments are now moving to other neighbouring states. This scenario he said has grossly affected the value of productive assets in the city, and counseled that landlords will benefit more if the city is reclaimed with new investments coming in as it will ultimately add value to their assets. Soludo educated his audience that in developed world, cities are planned to include pedestrians’ walkways, provision of convenience in public spaces, provision of relaxation spots for people to relax and enjoy. He emphasised that his administration will restore law and order as well as re-enact the Onitsha master plan, restore the Greater Onitsha water scheme, digitilize lands and assets in Anambra State, among others. He also spoke about the on-going desilting of sakamori drainage. POLL According to him, there are buildings obstructing the free flow of flood water and that such illegal developers who were given two weeks of grace, risked demolition He re-emphasized that no person in Anambra markets, roads and elsewhere will be allowed to collect money acruable to government as revenue. He reiterated that such monies will paid directly into the government coffers. He called on the landlords and stakeholders to support and cooperate with the government in its determination to restore Onitsha back to its past glory. If Onitsha is resurrected, Anambra State will be unstoppable in terms of the immense economic gains that will accrue to the people and government, he said. The ultimate goal of the parley Soludo said is to make living and shopping in Onitsha a pleasurable experience for all. In their separate speeches, the stakeholders outlined some of the challenges and suggested some immediate and long term solutions to them.Some of the solutions they said was construction of cemetery, government intervention at the Nkisi-Aroli, nipping of insecurity in the bud, dualization of GRA 3-3 road, social re-orientation, construction of flyover at Ogidi market, setting up of dedicated enforcement team, among others#