ENUGU – The students of Caritas University Amorji-Nike, near Emene community, in Enugu East local government area of the state have expressed fear over the gas fire leak incident in the institution. Our correspondent reports that the Gas leak fire started last Wednesday in Caritas University when the institution was searching for boreholes water. Though, experts said it was a Natural Gas combustion from 1,200 feets under ground Gas trapped that contains butane and propane. -Advertisement- Our correspondent who visited the institution on Tuesday was barred from entering the University premises as the security officials at the gate said there was order from the institution management not to allow any Journalist access scene of the Gas leak fire. All efforts to speak with any of the University management proofed abortive as the Institution gate was under lock and key Some of the students of the University who spoke to our correspondent expressed fear that the gas if not put off might spread to their hostels and lecture halls. A 200 level student of the University who spoke on condition of anonymity said” though the gas fire is a bit far to the hostel but close to natural science department and we are scared and ready to run anytime because such fire can spread to other parts of the school if not put off early. “Why I am still inside the school is because they don’t allow us to live outside, if not I would have packed my things to go and live off campus until they put off the fire. POLL “We appeal to the school management and other authority concerned to intervene quickly and put off the fire before it spread to the hostels and lecture hall,” she said Meanwhile, the Enugu state police commands has says no cause for alarm assuring that efforts are being made to put out the fire The State Commisioner of Police, Abubakar Lawal in a press statement made available to Journalists in Enugu on Tuesday said “Following the outbreak of fire, suspected to have been caused by underearth natural gas encountered during the drilling of a water borehole, at Caristas University, Amorji-Nike, Enugu, the Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, CP Abubakar Lawal, fdc, has assured the general public, particularly citizens of the State and the University community that there is no cause for alarm, as frantic efforts are being made by relevant authorities to put out the fire. “Meanwhile, the location of the fire incident, which does not seem to pose any obvious threat to human life and property, has been cordoned-off and secured to avoid any untoward incident. “This is pending when the fire will be completely quenched by the already contacted authorities with relevant expertise, including the Federal and Enugu State Fire Services, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and others within the Petroleum and Natural Gas Industry. “Further development shall be duly communicated to the general public,” he said