With the talk of Robert Lewandowski’s future at Bayern Munich, amidst interest from Barcelona, dominating the headlines, there seems to be a fresh development in the matter. According to Mundo Deportivo, Barcelona and Bayern Munich could enter a swap deal involving Memphis Depay and Lewandowski in the summer as both teams look to work out a possible operation for the Poland international.Lewandowski will enter the final year of his contract with Bayern this summer and has made it clear that he wishes to leave in the summer. While the German champions initially were reluctant to entertain a sale, they seem to have resigned to fate and are now looking at replacements. Any sale will depend on the Bundesliga giants finding a quality replacement for the 33-year-old striker. At the same time, Barcelona will likely have to shell out significant fees to sign the centre-forward, and given the financial situation, things could tricky. -Advertisement- And, it is where Memphis Depay could enter the picture. The 28-year-old arrived at Barcelona only last summer and has enjoyed a fairly solid debut campaign, as he sits at the top of the club’s goalscoring charts for this season, with 13 strikes to his name. However, the Dutchman’s contract with Barça expires at the end of next season, meaning he will enter the final year of his contract in July. While the Catalan giants value his contributions, they see him as a potential sweetener in their bid to sign Lewandowski in the summer. It is claimed that the Blaugrana are willing to offer the former Manchester United forward to Bayern Munich if it helps them land their primary transfer target before next season. Such a move might work out well for Bayern Munich, as they would be bolstering their attack with a capable goalscorer. While Depay might not be at the same elite level as Lewandowski, the Netherlands international has the quality to fill in at the Allianz Arena and grow into a world-beater. So, even though Xavi has confidence in Depay’s abilities, there is a possibility of him being used as a bargaining chip in a deal for Lewandowski or any other transfer operations that Barcelona look to conclude this summer.