Abuja – The eighteen registered political parties, under the aegis of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), on Tuesday in Abuja made a passionate appeal to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for an extension of the timetable of the 2023 general election. Engr. Yusuf Yabagi Sani, National Chairman of the Council, made the demand during their quarterly consultative meeting with INEC, noting that the request for an adjusted timetable will ensure a free and credible election. While appreciating the commission’s sustained strides to bequeath lasting legacy in the nation’s electoral system, the IPAC chairman noted that all the registered 18 political parties are united in their demand for an adjustment of the timetable. -Advertisement- “All the eighteen registered political parties on the platform of IPAC are jointly, without exception, requesting the INEC to consider a slight adjustment to the recently announced timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general elections. “The General Assembly of IPAC, after an exhaustive examination of the INEC timetable and related issues, arrived at a unanimous decision to request for an extension of thirty-seven (37) days to the deadline of the time frame for the conduct of party primaries and resolution of conflicts arising from the primaries. “By implication, the IPAC leadership is appealing to the INEC to extend the deadline for the conduct of party primaries and resolution of ensuing conflicts from the present INEC given date of 3rd June, 2022 to the 7th July 2022”, he said. IPAC explained that the commission did not factor in the religious calendar of the two major religions in the country before drawing the timetable. “Some of the constraining developments which, we believe were not considered and therefore, not factored in by the INEC while drawing up its schedule of activities includes the following: the Christian Lenten season and the Muslim fasting in the month of Ramadan, respectively, followed by the celebrations of Easter and Eid El Fitr (Sallah), in which the vast majority of party members were involved. POLL “The developments inevitably, therefore, greatly disrupted planned activities and programmes of the political parties, leading to the loss of about two weeks out of the allotted time of the timetable”, Sani said. Earlier in his address, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, restated previous warning that the commission will not make any adjustment to the timetable. Maintaining that the timeline for the conclusion of primaries and submission of names of candidates remain unchanged, insisting that any attempt to alter the timetable will inevitably affect other related activities that are associated with the timelines. The INEC boss also insisted that political parties must as part of deliberate effort to drive an inclusive electoral process that parties must ensure that women, youths and PWDs are accorded pride of place in the nomination of candidates. “Twice in the last two weeks, the commission had cause to remind political parties of the necessity for strict compliance with the timelines for party primaries. I hereby reiterate the position of the commission that there will be no review of the timelines. “There are so many inter- related activities that are associated with the timelines which must be carried out. Any review to extend the timeline for one activity will affect other activities and put unnecessary pressure on political parties and the commission. This will ultimately result in more complications than what the extension seeks to achieve. “Therefore, the commission will not review the timelines. Working together, we should ensure fidelity to the timelines in conducting transparent and democratic primaries for the purpose of electing candidates for the 1,491 constituencies for which elections will be held on 25th February and 11th March 2023.” The commission, he disclosed, has prepared a document to guide political parties in the conduct of primaries and nomination of candidates for election, including a checklist of the documentation required for a successful nomination. “Similarly, the commission has prepared a calendar of party primaries for presidential, governorship, national and state assembly seats based on the proposals submitted by political parties as at Friday, 6th May 2022. This document is also contained in your folders for this meeting. “As you conduct your primaries and nominate candidates for elections, this is the appropriate time to remind you of your commitment to promoting inclusivity in the electoral process. “Women, youths and persons with disability (PWDs) have been yearning for greater representation, particularly in elective positions. To assure citizens that you are not paying lip service to this commitment, political parties should encourage greater involvement of all under-represented segments of the society as candidates for elections. This is the only way we can change the reality of increasingly low level of representation of these critical segments of the society in legislative assemblies in particular and the governance of our country in general. “As you conclude your primaries and prepare for the off-cycle and general elections, I urge you to ensure a transparent electioneering process devoid of acrimony and rancour. In doing so, fidelity to internal democracy is critical. “Unfortunately, the number of litigations by aggrieved party members challenging the conduct of party primaries so far may exceed the 807 pre-election court cases on the 2019 general election in which the commission was joined by litigants. In addition, as we all know the security situation in the country is challenging enough. Do not wittingly or unwittingly compound the situation by the disruptive behaviour of your members and supporters during party primaries and general elections”.