The former Governor of Benue State and the Director-General, Udom Emmanuel for the 2023 Presidency, Senator Gabriel Suswam has lamented the damaging effects of ‘Namu-ne and Nawa-ne’, an Hausa acronym for ‘this is my own and this is our own’ to the growth and development of the 19 northern states compared to their southern counterpart. Nigeria in over 60 years of nationhood has been under the control of the north which has the highest level of poverty and hunger ravaging the region compared to the south due to the costly mistake of insistence that power must remain with the region against choosing a leader President based on credibility and competence. Suswam made the declaration when the campaign train of Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel for President visited and interacted with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Niger State delegates ahead of the party’s national delegates and 2023 general election. -Advertisement- With clear indications that the politics of Namu-ne has added more pains than gains to the lives and the socio-economic growth and development of the region, Suswam is calling for a new order that can only be provided by Governor Udom Emmanuel as President next year. Senator Suswam told PDP supporters at the party’s state secretariat, eastern by-pass Minna that Udom Emmanuel stands out among others hence the need to avoid the mistake of supporting another northern candidate in the build-up to the 2023 Presidential election. “Poverty level in the north is highest compared to other parts of the country because we were carried away by the political philosophy of ‘Namu-ne’, adding that such sentiments have made northern Nigeria remain backwards and therefore pleaded with delegates in Niger state, northern delegates and Nigerian voters generally to avoid a repeat of the same mistake in 2023. The country continued to recycle the same politicians who have nothing new to offer, Suswam said and canvassed for the support of a southern aspirant and that of the PDP in the person of Governor Udom Emanuel to change the narratives by taking Nigeria to the desired level. As the 2023 general election beckons, Suswan said it is important for the electorates in the north to put sentiments aside and vote for candidates based on merit instead of allowing sentiments to rule their sense of reasoning and eventually having a President that spends more time outside the country while the people that voted him/her into office suffer. “Poverty in the north is so high that most people can no longer feed their families. The exchange rate is soaring so high, the gap between Nigerian Naira against the Dollar is getting wider above the reach of common Nigerians”, this and many more Suswam argued should bother Nigerians in the build-up to the 2023 general election. Also speaking, Governor Udom Emmanuel promised to replicate the same developmental stride in Akwa-Ibom state at the national level if he emerges the Presidential flag-bearer of the PDP and voted as President next year. In their respective responses, Niger State PDP Chairman and the leader of the party in the state, Tanko Beji and Senator Zaynab Kure commended Governor Udom for visiting the delegates in person and interacting with them. They were however unanimous in their resolve that Niger state delegates will consider aspirants who deemed it necessary to visit in person and interact with delegates as the same recognition will be accorded them during the conference and next year’s election proper.