Concerned about the alleged criminal activities in Abuja’s suburbs, the FCT Ministerial Taskforce on City Sanitation on Monday destroyed scavengers’ camp and illegal markets at Lugbe on the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Road. The exercise was headed by Comrade Ikharo Attah, Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection, and Enforcement to the Minister of the FCT, who revealed that the ‘babanbola’ activities with the illegal markets were causing nuisances. He explained that the Lugbe Federal Housing Authority Estate junction phases 1&2, as well as the Lugbe by Berger yard, are extremely sensitive places that must adhere to the highest standards, and those illegal activities would not be tolerated. -Advertisement- He said that the minister of FCT Malam Muhammad Musa Bello after inspecting the area with the Taskforce team over the weekend had reminded the team of the need to maintain sanity on the Airport road. According to him: “We cleared shanties and scavengers on the Airport road some times ago but suddenly the illegal activities are gradually returning. The minister of FCT visited the Lugbe area at the weekend and directed that serious action must be taken. “The FCT Commissioner of Police, Sunday Babaji who plays a key role in the operation, also insisted that all the illegal activities that pave way for criminal acts on the road must be checked”. Attah further hinted that many of the demolished illegal shanties were suspected criminal hideouts, where hoodlums smoke marijuana and other illicit drugs freely. POLL He said, “Innocent members of the public, who have been complaining bitterly about activities of these unbecoming activities around Lugbe on the Airport Road, can now sleep with their two eyes closed. Meanwhile, a trader, whose illegal structure was affected by the demolition, Mrs Rukiyat Abiodun decried the frequent dislodging of their shops by the FCT officials, saying the government should consider the traders’ plight. “Demolishing our shops is not good, there should be a way of checking activities of the babanbola” Another resident, Emmanuel Aigbokhai said the exercise will stop criminal activities caused by the scavengers and illegal markets around the area.