YO – One of the frontline Presidential Aspirants on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel has vowed to arrest insecurity and restore peace in Nigeria. Emmanuel  said he was challenged  by the current bleak economic and poor security situation in  Nigeria,  to enter the presidential race, with a mission to rescue and restore Nigeria from its present gloom to a state of economic boom,  if elected president. Speaking with newsmen in Uyo on Friday, the former banker and economic expert expressed optimism that if the economy is fixed, jobs provided, food sufficiency and security attained, infrastructure deficit bridged,  foreign direct investments attracted and education section; improved to an enviable height, then the currect aggitation and attendant insecurity would cease. -Advertisement- He promised to deploy psychological operations and strategic kinetic approach, built on a foundation of sincerity and political will to tackle insurrections and criminal agitations in Nigeria. In his words; ” The current bleak economic and poor security situation in  Nigeria, our dear country,  has challenged me to enter the presidential race with a mission to rescue and restore Nigeria from its present gloom to a state of economic boom. “i have handled insecurity before and given the opportunity, i would do so again. In my leadership i am conscious that the greatest need of any society, which money cannot  buy is peace.  And under my watch, Akwa Ibom State has witnessed peace. “We all know that Nigeria needs peace for the economy to grow and for other sectors to thrive, and i know that with the support of psychological operations and strategic kinetic deployment, built on the foundation of sincerity and political will, these insurrections and criminal agitation would be a thing of the past. “i sincerely believe and strongly posit that if we fix the economy, provide jobs, attain food sufficiency and security, bridge our infrastructure deficit,  attract foreign direct investments, fix our education system to an enviable status, start and run a world class national carrier, the currect aggitation and attendant insecurity would cease, and the glory of our land would return and we would again be proud to be called Nigerians. POLL ” I seek your vote, to become the Presidential candidate of our great party, the PDP, so that i can rescue and restore Nigeria. I am Udom Emmanuel.