***As Ugochinyere Thanks Party Leaders, Nigerians For Their Support ABUJA – The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party has cleared the opposition spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere to participate in the party’s House of Representatives primary for the 2023 polls. The party has also issued Ugochinyere, who is the spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Certificate of Qualification, which is the highest level of clearance for any candidate to contest election in the Party. -Advertisement- The Party issued the Certificate to Ikenga Ugochinyere after examination of the controversial circumstances of reports of his disqualification despite the existence of Panel reports by both the Screening Committee and Screening Appeal Committee that he was duly cleared to contest the election. The NWC had resolved that going by records in the Party Secretariat that Mr. Ugochinyere was cleared and that reports of his purported disqualification were mere fabrications and rumours from adversaries, who are scared of his impending victory and not from any national officer of the Party or indeed the Party. Addressing newsmen shortly after receiving the certificate, Ugochinyere, who is aspiring to represent Ideato North / South Federal Constituency of Imo State, said the issuance of the certificate to him, will help to douse and dispel rumour of his purported disqualification and douse tension in the Imo PDP. He hailed the PDP leadership led by Sen. Iyorchia Ayu for presenting him the certificate which clears the pathway for him to contest the primaries, describing the act as evidence of Sen. Ayu’s commitment to a transparent, free and fair process. Ugochinyere further thanked party at both the State and Local Government and also the Nigerian public for their support and confidence which they reposed on him, pledging that he would ensure he does not disappoint the people. POLL He also expressed confidence that he would emerge victorious at the Party primaries and also vowed to lead the PDP to landslide victory in the Federal Constituency at the general election He said: “I was called by the leadership of the party that the NWC has given me the certificate of qualification, which is always given after the review of screening report. “I guess the party took that decision, to douse tension and dispel rumour of my purported disqualification. And it is so painful that the screening panel that came to imo screened and cleared me for the election. There was was no single petition. And the appeal panel also cleared me. Copies of those documents were also given to the State chapter of the party and acknowledge “It was unfortunate that three days after, we started hearing stories from Channels TV and other papers that I have been disqualified. It was baseless. I resigned my membership of my former party over two years ago. Today, I have been given certificate, they call it certificate of qualification. It was signed by the National chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, National Secretary, Sam Anyanwu and National Organizing Secretary, Umar Bature. “I also advise that as we go for the election, the leadership of the party does not allow criminally minded to be involved in the conduct of the primary. “We must say that we have the energy to fight any level of rascality in Imo. And no matter how high anybody is, we will ensure that the right thing is done.”