Seplat Energy Plc has disclosed that the company has successfully performed no fewer than 3,757 Cataract surgeries for the residents of Edo and Delta states under its ‘Eye Can See’ Free Medical Service Programme since 2012. The company also revealed that it has successfully screened and attended to 86,226 Eye patients and dispensed 38,555 eyeglasses to people within the period under review. Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, General Manager, External Affairs and Sustainability, Seplat Energy Plc made the revelations in Benin city at the commencement of the 2022 ‘Eye Can See’ programme at the Palace of the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare 11. -Advertisement- Nwachuku who was represented by Mr. Emmanuel Otokhine, Base Manager, Western Assets, Seplat Energy, noted that this year’s free healthcare services will be deployed in Delta and Edo states within several communities clustered in 13 centres. According to the General Manager, the ‘Eye Can See’ free health programme is the company’s flagship programme aimed at delivering quality healthcare to people within the areas the company is operating. “We are committed to delivering quality healthcare to people, making a difference in the life of the people within the area that we operate. Seplat is ever committed to ensuring that we put smiles on the faces of people wherever we operate,” she added. While pointing out that the programme was being carried out in partnership with Nigerian Petroleum Development Company, NPDC, Nwachuku said the free healthcare is targeted at men, women and children and called on residents of Edo and Delta to make themselves available for the free medical services. On his part, NPDC Managing Director represented by Mr. John Oyenkama, Manager, External Affairs, NDPC, said the company was committed to supporting the free healthcare service as a way of appreciating the states in giving NPDC an enabling environment to operate. POLL He said NPDC was proud of Seplat Energy Plc for the good work it was doing in its area of operation, especially its cordial relationship with the host communities. Also speaking at the event, the Secretary to Delta State Government who was represented by Assistant Director, Office of the SSG, John Mordi, appreciated Seplat for the kind gesture, urging it to extend the free healthcare service to other rural areas within their areas of operation. He thanked Seplat management for being at the forefront of delivering such services, just as he encouraged them to do more, admitting that what the company is doing is an extension of government programmes. Edo State Commissioner for Health, Prof.Obehi Akoria who was represented by Director Public Health, Edo State Ministry of Health, Dr. Stephen Ojiefo thanked the company for helping the less privileged in the society, pointing out that the company’s free health programme was in line with the state government’s health programme for the people. One of the beneficiaries who was operated for Cataract, Prince Victor Ehue, gave kudos to the Seplat management for extending such a programme to the grassroot and for making it an annual event, adding that if they were to pay for the service rendered, it would have cost each patient over N250,000.00, just as he also thanked NPDC management for partnering Seplat for the free healthcare.