LAGOS – The dust over the appointment of a new coach for the Super Eagles is still not cleared as former Team Manager of defunct Julius Berger Football Club, Mactony Taiwo has joined voices rejecting a foreign coach for the team. In a chat with our Cor­respondent, the seasoned football administrator opined that the country is blessed with good coaches that can handle the team but was quick to point out that the problem with Ni­geria coaches is their in­ability to believe in them­selves. “Why appointing a for­eign coach for the Super Eagles? We don’t need a for­eign coach for the team. We have good coaches in our league that can take charge of the team. “Once the leadership of the Nigeria Football Feder­ation (NFF) is ready to give a free hand to a Nigerian coach and the appointed coach believes he can de­liver, that is it,” said Taiwo. According to him, the NFF can also go extra miles by giving the Nige­rian coach same treatment given to past foreign coach­es. “In addition to that, such coach should also be given fresher courses to update his knowledge of the game and be up to the standard of other coaches in other football playing countries,” Taiwo added. He stressed that some of the ex-internationals should also be given a chance to handle the team, citing that external forces contributed to the failure of Austin Eguavoen to qualify the country for the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup. “Eguavoen was not all that bad as a coach. He did very well to some extent but carved in to external forces that led him to his fall. POLL “The moment he said he invited some players to the team for the World Cup qualifiers in order to pacify some people; I knew there would be problem. And that contributed to his fall. “However, we should not use that as a yardstick to condemn other ex-interna­tionals or our local coaches as unfit to handle the na­tional team. “I will be more comfort­able with a home grown coach taking charge of the Super Eagles and by so do­ing will help groom players from the domestic league,” submitted Taiwo.