Tobi is disturbed, his mind has not been at peace since the day his girlfriend attempted to stab him. They were both drunk that night or were high on a substance before they got into a fight. She would have hurt him or probably killed him that night if he had not scampered to his room. The thought kept ringing in his head: “What if she tries to hit me with something else when next we fight? What if she becomes even more violent after we are married? What if…” These were disturbing thoughts running through his mind as he considered settling down with his girlfriend. He loved everything about his girl but for that incident, he has become skeptical about making her his life partner. “That night we went to club, she was heavily drunk. I was still sober, we had an argument. In fact, we fought that night. It was my first time seeing her like that. I never knew she was capable of being violent to the extent of stabbing me. “She ran into the kitchen, took a knife to stab me. I thought she won’t do it, maybe she wanted to scare me, but when she hit my palm with it, feeling the force with which she did it, I knew she meant business. When she aimed at my stomach I ran to the second room and locked the door. She kept banging at the door for an hour. The next morning I saw her on the floor sleeping. She was like ice water when she finally woke up. “She couldn’t remember all that she did that night. If not for my fresh wounds in my palm she wouldn’t have believed what she did. She said she didn’t remember carrying a knife much less hitting my palm with it. She was very sorry, and promised not to repeat it. As much as I wanted to believe her, I was not convinced she won’t do it again. “I love this girl; she has got all I wanted in a woman. But my mind is not settled; something is telling me she could be worse after marriage. What if she kills me when we fight? “She is this kind of girl that likes to be free and independent. She is a media person, and still very young in the media. She doesn’t want to be under anyone’s control. I met her in the club. She clubs heavily. She takes booze and I take that, too. She is unlike other girls that I have met – they are either pretenders or too quick to judge my actions. She is not like that. “Apart from the fact that she is beautiful with clean skin and nice curves she has a good heart. She is always ready to support and very smart. She has this street mentality and, with her, no dull moments. And she has got my mumu key, too. POLL “There was a night we went out, I was dead drunk but she was not, and I had big money in my pocket and some other valuables. She ensured we got to a hotel safely. How we got to that hotel, I didn’t know. It was from that day I started respecting and fell more in love with her. This was barely few weeks after we met. She could have left me there and probably made away with my money and valuables as a street girl, but she didn’t. “All these are the qualities that have kept me glued to her. But in all this, something keeps telling me she might kill me when we fight. Am I just being paranoid?” Dear Tobi, no. You should be very scared of marrying a woman that tried to stab you once; she has revealed her character, and it is deeply flawed. Marrying someone and being scared is not the right way to live. One thing is your intuition telling you to be scared; another is not doing anything about it. In this case, if you want to continue with the marriage, you should bear in mind that she can become violent and aggressive when provoked. She did it once, she would do it again and again. You can’t wish it away except she takes conscious steps to work on herself. It’s left for you to either accept to be the victim and learn how to avoid provoking her or doing things that can trigger such violent actions or just take a bow and walk away. Don’t experiment with your life – you might not live to tell the story. Hello readers, thanks for reading through. You can inbox your opinions or share your own experiences.