Nollywood actor, Ibrahim Abiodun Chatta, has reacted to the gruesome killing of a female student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education, identified as Ms Deborah Samuel over blasphemy of Prophet Mohammed. According to the actor in a post via his Instagram page, Nigerians shouldn’t not blame Muslims or Islam for the act, as the perpetrators are the ones responsible. He wrote, “On that Sokoto murder —There are at least six recorded times the Holy Prophet of Islam (PBHM) rose above insults. I won’t waste your time with all six, but I will mention three:Arwa bint Harb (also known as Urn Jameel, the wife of Abu Lahab) would follow the Prophet (PBUH) around to hurt and humiliate him and used to taunt him, saying “we have denied, and his religion we have loathed, and his command we have defied”. -Advertisement- “Instead of responding to her, the Prophet (PBUH) would simplysay to his companions, “Don’t you see how Allah diverts from me the curses and insults of Quraysh? They insult Mudhammam, and they curse Mudhammam, while I am Muhammad (the Praised One)!” He defused the situation. “On one occasion, the Prophet (PBUH) silently smiled when Abu Bakr (RA), his most noble companion, refrained from responding to a person who was insulting him. But when Abu Bakr eventually spoke up, the Prophet (PBUH) became angry and left. “Abu Bakr followed after the Prophet and said: “Messenger of Allah! He insulted me and you just sat there. Then when I responded to some of what he said, you became angry and got up! The Prophet said: “There was an angel with you who was responding to his insults on your behalf! Then the Prophet said: “Abu Bakr, (keep in mind) three things which are always true, one of which is that whenever a person is subjected to an injustice but leaves the matter to Allah, then Allah will come to his aid! (Musnad Ahmad). “Anas (RA) said, “I was walking with the Messenger of Allah(PBUH), and he was wearing a NajrAni cloak with a rough collar. A Bedouin man caught up with him, then violently pulled him by his cloak, causing the cloak to tear, and leaving its collar [hanging] on the neck of Allah’s Messenger (PBUH). I looked at the Messenger of Allah’s neck, and the cloak’s collar had left marks from how roughly he had snatched [it]. Then, he said, ‘0 Muhammad, order [them] that I be given from the wealth of Allah that you have!’ The Messenger of Allah (PBUH) turned to him, smiled, and then ordered that he be given something.” (reference: Rivad as-Salihin 6441) “Blame the perpetrators not Muslims & Islam.”