I must be utterly fortuitous or an act of the gods that my perusal of Chimamanda Adichie’s fac­tion on the Nigeria-Biafra Civil War – Half of a Yellow Sun – should coincide with the ongoing Rus­sia-Ukraine war. The causes may differ, but the consequences of war are the same: cataclysmic deaths, de­struction and miseries. The human catastrophes make war completely senseless, an act folly. War returns man to the state of nature. It might appear quixotic, but there is no jus­tified war. A shooting conflict should be avoided at all cost. During the invasion of Iraq by the US with its allies in 2003, osten­sibly in search of weapons of mass destruction, which it never found, a bomb or missile struck a warehouse, killing five hundred Iraqi women and children in one fell swoop. Al­though President George Bush later appeared on TV to express regrets, the dead could not be raised to life. Just like lightning and thunder, so is war and collateral damage; hence war must be avoided at all cost. Sometimes soldiers have to lay am­bush to the enemy and have to do so by melting with the civilian popu­lation, collateral damage becomes inevitable as everything within the source of the attack becomes a tar­get for any counter-attack; hence war must be avoided at all cost. When you distribute guns to untrained civil­ians or rookie cops, brainwashing them to defend their motherland, they become combatants that are easily eliminated by trained combat­ants. War must be avoided at all cost. The Ukrainian armed forces should have laid down their arms. They did not need to reach such a stage in the first place. Although they signed up to die in defence of their territory, they did not need to perish fighting another man’s war. The Ukrainian political leadership should have distanced itself from NATO. The war is between the United States and Russia, the former planning to be the only super power in the globe. NATO member states are mere pawns on the chessboard of the United States. It is unfortunate Ukraine cannot appreciate this. The US continues to egg them on, sup­plying them with weapons, initially covertly but now openly. However, it is Ukrainians that continue to die, their cities being pulverized. I weep for Ukraine for being so short-sight­ed, for allowing its territory to be turned into a battle-ground and its people as cannon fodders for the American war. -Advertisement- President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is not a hero as he is being portrayed by the West – far from it! History will not be kind to him for his inability to see through the shenanigans of NATO and allowing his country and his people to bear the brunt of anoth­er man’s war. Is he even a democrat? Is Ukraine a democracy? What about the decommunization laws, which abridged freedoms of expression and association, validly condemned by the Venice Commission? The US is currently fighting Rus­sian by proxy, exacting economic losses, hoping ultimately for a mil­itary defeat of its arch foe, whereup­on China will be next target. North Korea will then be the last, perhaps much easier to deal with in spite of its nuclear arsenal. Mind you, this is not a sprint for the United States. It’s a marathon that can last for decades. It’s the goal of a unipolar world in which only the US calls the shot that is important, not the time to accom­plish it! The United States is taking the war in Ukraine seriously, galvaniz­ing the world against Russia, using the media like the CNN, BBC and Al Jazeera to control the minds of viewers across the world. The ongo­ing economic war against Russia is as important as the current armed conflict between the US and Russia, disguised as Ukraine-Russia war. The more the war drags on, the bet­ter for America, as the effects of the US-UK-EU-imposed economic sanc­tions against Russia may bring the latter to its knees or render it horse de combat. Hence the US is urging its short-sighted allies to ratchet up economic sanctions and supply of sophisticated military weapons to Ukraine. The original intentions of America to keep NATO after the dissolution of Warsaw Pact is now being achieved, as it is latching on the ongoing war to militarize the bor­ders of Russia, the very cause of the invasion of Ukraine. The US Patri­ot Missile launchers have now been installed in Poland – against which country? Russia, of course! The distinction being drawn by the US-led NATO between defen­sive and offensive weapons is sheer sophistry. For instance, the javelins and stingers supplied to Ukrainian forces by US and NATO members destroy Russian armoured tanks and kill their occupiers. Once the ef­fects are destruction and death, such semantic classification is meaning­less. Russia is fighting Ukraine plus US-led NATO and it is paying heavily for it. Joe Biden, Boris Johnson and their allies keep saying they need to increase the cost of the war for Putin and make his invasion end in a stra­tegic defeat. They’ve now decided to support Ukraine with high-grade (offensive) weapons. But those dy­ing are Ukrainians, not Americans, Britons or the French! The cities be­ing reduced to smouldering rubbles are not in US, UK or France; they are Ukrainian cities. If my hunch is anything to go by, the US-led NATO wants to use the ongoing proxy war to test the capabilities and efficien­cy of some of its weapons. Anyway Russia is doing the same by default. The gory pictures of dead and decomposing bodies fill one with horror. They are from Bucha in Ukraine – those responsible for the butchery (no pun intended) must be held accountable, either now or in the future. POLL Are they from the cities in US, UK and France? Those images of black­ened high rise buildings with blown off roofs and collapsing floors, the carcasses of burnt vehicles that lit­ter the streets, the plumes and thick dark billows of smoke from facto­ries, industries and oil facilities are not from Washington, London and Paris. They are from Mariupol, Kyiv, Dnipro, Kharkiv, Lviv, Odessa… Zel­enskyy is not a hero. The more the supply of weapons to Ukraine by the US-led NATO in order to further the unipolar agenda of America, the more the war drags on, the more the deaths and devastation of Ukraine. It is stupid for this war to go on. Russia must stop the war immedi­ately. Ukraine must openly renounce NATO membership. NATO must dis­solve immediately. Since the dissolution of USSR, Russia has not posed any threats to its neighbours until the US, through NATO, began to expand to encircle Russia militarily. While the expan­sion of NATO from the 90s to the Eastern Europe continued to dis­comfiture Russia, the US in 2008 signed an agreement with Poland to install 10 US interceptor missiles just 115 miles from Russia’s western­most frontier! Condoleezza Rice, the then United States Secretary of State declared, “It is an agreement which will help us to respond to the threats of the 21st century and protect the US and much of Europe against mis­sile attacks from ‘rogue elements’ in the Middle East, such as Iran.” It was the most ludicrous argument as it was evident to the most credulous that Russia was the target of the proposed missile defence. Although the administration of Obama backed down, the hawks, the ultra national­ists in Washington (not the ordinary American citizens) were never per­suaded. The goal of a unipolar world must be achieved, ultimately. What about the golden rule and equity? The US railed against the So­viet Union’s missile build-up in near­by Cuba in October 1962 until the ap­paratus of death was dismantled and the people of America heaved a huge sigh of relief. Now the US wishes to bring Ukraine into its orbit in order to locate apparatus of death at the borders of Russia. In 2015, Turkey, a member of NATO, shot down a Russian warplane. Even if it had intended, Russia could not retaliate in kind without provoking Article 5 of NATO – an attack on a member is an attack on all members. With Ukraine in the US orbit, all that is needed to attempt to conquer Russia is to goad Ukraine into provocative acts against Russia. Article 5 will then be triggered. Russia is far-sight­ed to see through the danger lurking in the dark. If Mikhail Gorbachev rues his actions for ending the Cold War, it is not because he was wrong. It is the United States that has acted and continued to act in bad faith. Gor­bachev was quoted to have said “the topic of NATO expansion was never discussed” with the West – there was no basis for such a discussion. No one would ever imagine that US-led NATO would ever think of expan­sion since the basis for its existence had collapsed. If anything was with­in contemplation, it should be the dissolution of NATO following the end of Warsaw Pact. For decades, the US ignores the vehement grievances of Russia. Just before the current war began, Russia wrote the US and NATO formally to address its securi­ty concerns about NATO’s expansion to its borders. She demanded NATO roll back to 1997, halt its expansion to its borders, remove its military infra­structure from Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltics and commit itself against deployment of mis­siles around its borders. Of course, Ukraine should never be admitted into NATO. The principal demands of Russia were merely scorned as impossible. Why does NATO still exist? Why is NATO expanding only to the borders of Russia? Why is it not expanding to Africa and South America? Why is the US-led NATO only interested in membership of countries bordering Russia? Why is the US having military bases all over the world? As stated clearly in the first article on the on­going war, (Ukraine: US, NATO must be held accountable), this writer de­tests a ruthless tyrant like Vladimir Putin. At the same time, a world in which the US is the only super power poses a greater danger to other na­tions and peoples of the world. No one wants to be slaves in an Amer­ican Empire. •Soyombo is Chairman, Editorial Board of the Daily Independent