LAGOS – Ohanaeze Ndigbo has berated the Northern Elders Forum for comments over 2023 Presidential zoning. In a press statement on Sunday signed by Dr. Chiedozie Alex Ogbonnia, its National Publicity Secretary expressed surprise that the leadership of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), mostly elders, will collectively act as the fifth Roman Emperor, Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus who, according to the group fiddled while Rome was on fire. According to the socio-political organisation, Nigeria is confronted with unprecedented insecurity, poverty and a large number of internally displaced Nigerians, which are issues that have remained unabated because of ethnic and religious-induced policies, injustice and more importantly, the inability to make the right choices. “It is, therefore, very strange that the elders, instead of seeking a solution to the problems they have so identified, are busy strategising on how to destroy the vital values that have helped to lubricate the apparently precarious imbalance in the country. “At about 1994, some Nigerian patriots conceived an article of faith and principle of rotation of power that guarantees equity and inclusiveness for all the diverse components of the country. “Thus, Nigeria was structured into six geopolitical zones; namely, South-South, South East, South West, North West, North Central and the North East. It was also agreed that political offices will be zoned or distributed among the zones in such a way that every zone will have a sense of belonging. Furthermore, the presidency will rotate among the zones to promote peace, unity and progress in Nigeria,” the statement reads. According to Ohanaeze, NEF is aware that Nigeria has religiously followed the rotation and zoning principle since 1999 with Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as the elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Obasanjo, in keeping with the rotation principle, was handed over to the North in the person of former President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua in 2007. “At the death of Yar’Adua, a Southerner, specifically the South-South in the person of Dr Goodluck Jonathan was elected the President. Jonathan again, handed over to a Northerner, President Muhammadu Buhari whose second tenure of four years each will end in 2023. By the rotation and zoning principle that has been in operation in Nigeria, It is only fair that the presidency be zoned to the South, specifically the South East of Nigeria,” Ohanaeze noted. POLL Ohanaeze stated that it remains the moral duty of elders to guide society on the path of truth and honour. It was Alex Tocqueville who admonished that “when the past no longer illuminates the future, the spirit walks in darkness”. “The NEF knows full well that in the interest of peace, unity and corporate existence of Nigeria, the elders must, as a matter of necessity, embrace equity and justice. It is therefore only fair that the South East of Nigeria should be supported to accede presidential power because what is good for the goose is, mutatis mutandis, good for the gander “It is also surprising that NEF is more enamoured of power than the veritable and conducive environment under which sustainable national development can be attained. For the avoidance of doubt, there is no country on the planet earth that can progress under the dire straits and strains of inequity, injustice, mistrust, viciousness, braggadocio and predatory ethnocentrism. The above vices will surely engender crises, conflicts, economic downturn, unemployment, poverty, insecurity, kidnapping and banditry Expressing its displeasure, Ohanaeze stated, “The attention of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has been drawn to the communique issued by the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), captioned “2023 Presidency: Northern Elders Kick against Zoning”. The communique which was signed by the former Vice-Chancellor of the Plateau State University, Professor Doknan Danjuma Shenni,  among other issues stated that the “2023 presidential contest should be left open to every region of the country for the best candidate to emerge”. The communique also added that “the current state of insecurity in the North is unprecedented. “All the ongoing shenanigans about zoning in Nigeria is because it is the turn of the South-East to produce a president in Nigeria. This NEF knows. We want to use this medium to salute the likes of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, Chief E K Clarke, Dr. Pogu Bitrus and other leaders for their courage to stand by the right side of history. I have supreme confidence in the inevitable natural phenomenon, that a broken leaf, after fluttering in the air must obey the law of gravity. “President Muhammadu Buhari has the burden of history to treat the South, the South East, how Chief Olusegun Obasanjo treated the North in 2007. Obasanjo against all pressures displayed honour and statesmanship when in 2007, he handed over to the North in the person of Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. Today, Buhari is the leader of the country. He pilots the ship of the state. It is hoped that he will anchor the ship at the appropriate bank,” Ohanaeze further stated.