LAGOS – Despite global scientific evidence that people living with HIV on antiretroviral treatment can give birth to babies free from the infection, many Nigerian newborns are getting infected and dying from the virus. The  National AIDS and STIs Control Programme (NASCP) reports that 409 and 833 Nigerian babies were HIV positive in 2020 and 2019 respectively. Regrettably, the country also recorded 808 HIV positive babies in 2018, while the figure was 1,359  in  2017. -Advertisement- The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) reports that more than 47 children and adolescents died every day from AIDS-related causes across the country in 2018, according to a global snapshot on children and HIV/AIDS. The reasons are not far-fetched. Low access to antiretroviral treatment and limited prevention efforts are the leading causes for these deaths, with only 54 percent of children aged 0-14 living with HIV globally in 2018 -or 790,000 children – receiving lifesaving antiretroviral therapy. Comfort Edem, a nurse, aged 38 was infected through contact with a needle otherwise syringe. Edem said she was mistakenly pricked by the needle while giving an injection to a woman living with HIV.  She was later Diagnosed of HIV. Edem told Daily Independent in Calabar, Cross River state that she has two babies who are HIV-negative because she is religiously on antiretroviral therapy. Edem stressed that treatment with a combination of HIV medicines (called antiretroviral therapy or ART) can prevent transmission of HIV to your baby and protect your health. POLL Today, she is a mentoring other mothers living with HIV as a way of contributing to the country’s prevention of mother-to-child HIV programme. “I believe with proper information on PMTCT many pregnant women would have HIV negative babies.” In spite of having been tested for HIV during pregnancy, most women have limited knowledge and awareness of the virus and of PMTCT in particular. There are several potential barriers to the provision of PMTCT including: HIV testing without adequate informed consent and counselling. Others are gaps in HIV and Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV (MTCT) knowledge among women, perceived stigma at the household and community level with HIV-related cultural beliefs. Among women who had been tested for HIV, awareness and knowledge of HIV and PMTCT remained low. There would be a need for mobile phone communication for improving uptake of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected pregnant women. Socio-cultural and operational challenges, including HIV testing without informed consent, present significant barriers to the scale-up of PMTCT services for women in the country. Also strengthening local capacity for effective counselling and testing in the antenatal setting is paramount. HIV is a principal contributor to the high burden of maternal and infant mortality and morbidity in the country. Some medical experts have made recommendations on what the country can do to address the issue of low PMTCT in the country. They spoke recently, at the UNICEF supported meeting of Journalists Alliance for Prevention of Mother-To-Child Transmission (JAPiN) held in Calabar, Cross River State. One of them, Dr Ijaodola Olugbenga, Deputy Director, PMTCT, Lead for the National Prevention of Mother-To- Child Transmission of HIV and AIDS (PMTCT) had advocated for state governments to procure HIV commodities to boost PMTCT services. According to Olugbenga, there was an urgent need for a clear community strategy to reach the unreached, as well as to mobilise community influencers, especially religious leaders, who would help to educate pregnant women on PMTCT needs. He said that there was need to understand why about 60 per cent of pregnant women delivered at home and then respond to their needs with a clear strategy. Olugbenga also called on the Federal Government to declare a national emergency on PMTCT. He said there was an urgent need for a clear community strategy to reach the excluded, recognize the importance of working with all actors, private providers, traditional birth attendants (TBAs), community leaders and networks of people living with HIV. “There is a need to develop a realistic state-specific approach to improve the development of Ante-Natal Clinic (ANC), ANC testing and PMTCT coverage. “Approval and implementation of the state-level framework for the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis,” said Olugbenga. He decried the low uptake of antenatal care services, low uptake of early infant diagnosis services, and enjoined women to know their HIV status before they get pregnant to enable them plan accordingly. “There is a need to develop a realistic state-specific approach to improve the development of Antenatal Clinic (ANC), ANC testing and PMTCT coverage,” said Olugbenga. Contributing, Dr Atana Ewa, Associate Professor of Paediatric Respiratory/Infectious Disease, University of Calabar Teaching Hospital, said the management of children living with HIV needed more focus, attention and enlightenment. Ewa stressed the need for increased screening among women of child bearing age and pregnant women to check the spread of the virus. She said, “We need to ensure reduction of prenatal transmission, give antiretroviral drugs to pregnant women and during breastfeeding.” She advised that every pregnant woman should be tested for HIV to have proper data and start PMTCT. Mr. Geoffrey Njoku, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Communications Specialist in Nigeria, tasked the media to provide an update on the current status of HIV and AIDS in the country. The media has an important role to play to bring back HIV and AIDS to the front burner by educating pregnant women on the importance of PMTCT, Njoku added.