The unpredictability of football is what makes the game one of the most watched sports in the World. Rangers went into the first leg of the Europa League semifinals on May 5, 2022, with a goal deficit of one, after a wonder strike from Angelino put them at a disadvantage. Many might have written them off against the more dominant and more fan-favoured Bundesliga side Frankfurt. But in the game of football, the saying ‘it is not over until the final whistle’ reigns supreme.And truly, that was the case at Ibrox Stadium when Joe Aribo, Calvin Bassey, and Leon Balogun, with their fellow daring Rangers teammates, took on Frankfurt, winning with an aggregate score of 3-2. -Advertisement- With an impressive eight goals and five assists in the Scottish Premiership, and three crucial assists in the Europa League this season, Joe Aribo, who joined the club on July 9, 2019, has earned his place in the starting 11 of the Rangers team. The 25-year-old Nigerian star is expected to be in the lineup on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, against Frankfurt for the Europa final. But reaching the Europa League final is no easy feat and Frankfurt would prove even more difficult to play. The Bundesliga side beat EPL West Ham United home and away with an aggregate of 3-1 in the semi-finals to reach the final stage of the competition. The battle between these two European clubs is expected to be fierce, tense and action-packed as both teams hope to win the title for the first time. POLL But one team must lose while one will lift the cup. Who is it going to be? This thriller will be live on SuperSport LaLiga (DStv Channel 204 and GOtv channel 32) at 8.00pm. Calvin Bassey and Leon Balogun are also expected to be in the lineup. Bassey has had an incredible season helping Rangers finish second in the Scottish League table and his defensive mastering will come in handy on Wednesday. His performance has not only been felt in the defence alone but has provided three assists in the Scottish Premiership, while Balogun has two goals in the Europa League having played only 10 matches. Will these Nigerian stars dig their feet and win their first Europa League title at Estadio R. Sanchez Stadium, Sevilla?