AWKA – The Presidential aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa has said that his party has a bright chance of cruising to victory in the 2023 presidential election because Nigerians hate the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Ohuabunwa said that although Nigerians don’t like PDP, they still look towards it to rescue the nation from visionlessness of the present administration. “Nigerians don’t like PDP, but they hate APC  So they are ready to give PDP a chance”, he said. -Advertisement- Ohuabunwa spoke in Awka while addressing PDP delegates and stakeholders on Saturday. He said it was the third time of his coming to Anambra State in the course of his lobby for votes and this time it was to remind them that he was still in the race. Ohuabunwa said that he had sat atop board of a multinational company, lead many economic group and wrote books advocating how Nigeria will overcome its challenges. All these, he said fell on deaf ears until a voice challenged him to go and implement his ideas himself, hence his joining the presidential race. He said Nigeria needed someone with integrity and knowledgeable enough to run its affairs. POLL He said he has the acumen,  tge character and courage to drive the country to the Promised Land. He, however,  warned that “if PDP wants to win the election in 2023, it must open its eyes because leadership is transferable”. He said he knew the problems of the country and has been the only aspirant that has gone round the country twice, all of that by road. PDP chieftain,  Chief Okey Muo-Aroh had earlier praised Ohuabunwa for his indebt knowledge and managerial acumen,  saying he is a big asset to the nation. Also, while responding to Ohuabunwa’s request former Speaker of Anambra State House of Assembly Chief Mrs. Eucheria Azodo pledged support of Anambra delegates but reminded him that Anambra had its own candidate in the race. Azodo likened Nigeria to Israel which when God wants to punish, give it a bad leader.