Nigerian airlines are losing an average of N1.5 billion monthly through “blocked seats” and “fully booked” claimed on their booking portals. This fraud is perpetuated by some of its counter staff in connivance with touts and possibly travel agencies in the industry, which stakeholders say further compound their woes. On the average daily, the 10 scheduled domestic commercial airlines operate about 200 landings and takeoff. -Advertisement- Air Peace, the biggest airline in the country has over 80 landings daily, while the remaining nine others, including Ibom Air, Dana Air, Arik Air, United Nigeria, Azman Air, Max Air, Overland Airways and Green Africa have a combined 120 landings daily or more. The airlines lose an estimated 10 seats each daily to “blocked bookings” and at the current base fare of N50,000 per flight, the airlines lose a combined N500,000 daily. A click on the booking portals of most of the airlines indicate that, 48 hours to most flights, the seats are either “sold out” or “fully booked,” but travellers still find empty seats in such flights when they are onboard. Also, some of the passengers who could not book online 48 hours to their flights surprisingly purchase air tickets at the counters of the airlines on the day of travel, but at extremely high rates. However, in a bid to reduce the huge loss incurred by the artificial “sold out” or “fully booked,” most of the airlines seem to have changed their policy on “book on hold” or ticket reservation for passengers. POLL A search into the booking portals of some of the domestic carriers showed that rather than the previous 24 hours allowed passengers to make payment for “book on hold” flights, the airlines now permit just a few hours for payment to be made. Searches indicated that passengers are now to make payment for any “book on hold” flight within two to six hours, while a few of the carriers no longer allow such practice. Mr. Ahmadu Idris, a passenger with one of the major domestic airlines from Abuja to Lagos, told Daily Independent that he attempted to book online for a flight to Lagos, about two days before the flight, but he was denied access. According to him, the booking portal indicated that the ticket for the flight was fully sold, so, he could not buy ticket online. However, on the day of the flight, he decided to go to the airport for any flight available and was surprised that he still procured ticket with cash behind the counter on the same airline he couldn’t book online, but at a much higher rate. Idris explained that on getting onboard, the aircraft was only full to 60 percent capacity and wondered how such flight could have been advertised as “fully sold” on its portal. He said that apart from him, several other passengers would have been denied online bookings, while the airline would have lost at least some millions of naira on that flight. He said: “I had a meeting in Lagos on a Thursday and by Tuesday, I went online to book my ticket with this particular airline, but I couldn’t do it because the portal showed that the flight was fully booked. “But someone advised me to go to the airport on that day of my travel that I would still get a flight to Lagos. So, I packed by luggage and headed to the airport. Surprisingly, I still got a ticket at the counter of the same airline, although, at a higher rate. “However, when I got onboard, I discovered that the seats were only 60 percent full. We still had some empty seats. And in aviation, they say seats are perishable. It is necessary for the airlines to device a means of curbing this act because they are losing lots of money. On that flight alone, at least N3 million would have been lost to such antics.” Besides, Mrs. Bimbo Olisemeke, a passenger from Abuja to Port Harcourt, recounted same experience with an airline on that route. According to her, she attempted to book on a particular airline 24 hours before her flight, but the effort was futile. However, when she got to the airport on the day of the flight, she was able to buy ticket with ease at the counter. But like Idris, Olisemeke said the ticket was purchased at a higher rate than she projected, while the flight was full to about 85 percent capacity. She advised the airlines to consistently check their workers, especially the online team to expunge such an act, stressing that multi-million naira is being lost by the airlines daily to this attitude. Daily Independent gathered that some of the domestic airlines may have begun investigation of sale of their tickets at outrageous fares to travellers by touts, after creating scarcity by blocking flight seats with “book on old” system. It was learnt that some of the touts block some seats online and only “open them” for those who may want to buy across the counter on the day of departure. Commenting on the issue, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President, Aviation Round Table (ART), attributed the block bookings to multiple bookings by passengers. He said the schedule performances of most of the Nigerian airlines are poor, stressing that passengers who engage in multiple bookings in most cases do not bother to cancel them, thereby leading to ‘no show’ and empty seats on flights. He also admitted that ticket racketeering was prevalent in some of the airlines, but noted this could only thrive in an environment of appalling schedule integrity and chaotic situations in the absence of interlining and consumer care. Mr. Olumide Ohunayo, the Director, Research, Zenith Travels, said that such racketeering is more pronounced among some low counter staff, reservation department and airport touts. He said these segments of people hoard tickets to be resold at exorbitant rates for travellers who buy across the counters, stressing that despite the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant protocols, the airport authorities had not been able to dislodge touting at the airports. He mentioned Benin, Owerri and Enugu as some of the airports such racketeering was more pronounced. He said, “Airport touts are very significant in ensuring this transfer gets to the passengers who come on the day of travel. If we cannot solve touting within and around the airports, despite the COVID-19 pandemic protocols, then, we might have a huge problem in solving it on the long run. “It is key to solving touting and these touts are members of airlines and some organisations in the industry who are either retired or sacked by their employers, but they still come around, hanging in and around the airport premises. They are the ones who are pushing those racketeering.” Mr. Tunji Oketunbi, the General Manager, Public Affairs, Accident Investigation Bureau Nigeria (AIB-N), in a recent interview with Daily Independent, described the current situation of unavailable seats in most airlines and routes as artificial scarcity. Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd.), aviation analyst, said the recent “sold out” syndrome was a market strategy adopted by some of the airlines in order to sell tickets at exorbitant prices to highest bidders.