BAUCHI – No fewer than 469 unlicensed pharmacies and patent medicine shops in 18 local government areas of Bauchi state, have been sealed by the Pharmacist Council of Nigeria. The Director and Head of Enforcement Department, National Headquarters, Abuja, Stephen Esumobi, who disclosed this at a press conference held at the North-East Zonal Office of the Council in Bauchi, said that it has also sealed stores that sell sub-standard drugs along with those that engage in clinical services, adding that the shops would remain sealed until they met the minimum requirements. He said the PCN, as a Federal Government parastatal, is charged with the responsibility of regulating the education, training and practice of pharmacy in all its aspects and ramification as established by the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria Act, Cap p17, LFN, 2004 (formerly Decree 91 of 1992). -Advertisement- Esumobi said that the PCN enforcement team visited some premises across some Local Government Areas in the state in 2019 and sealed off some of them who were operating without registration with the Council and the registered ones who failed to renew their certificates. According to the Council Boss, the owners of the sealed premises were given opportunity to fulfil conditions for registration pointing out that after most of them fulfilled conditions for registration, their premises were unsealed. “The Council took pains to sensitise Patent Medicine Vendors and other medicine dealers on the need to continue complying with regulations in the interest of public health. During the orientation and continuing education programmes, vendors were taught how to handle simple household (over-the-counter) medicines to ensure that products remained safe, effective and of good quality throughout their self life” “Despite the efforts of PCN, so many premises returned to their old ways because of financial gains. While some premises took steps to operate in line with regulations, so many others have chosen to operate in breach of it. Many products in these erring premises may no longer be fit for human consumption due to poor handling. The exposure of these products to adverse environmental factors like high temperature, humidity and direct sunlight could compromise their quality, safety, and efficacy.” “It is in the light of the above that the Council had no other option than to reseal these premises during the current national enforcement exercise. The Local government Areas visited include the following: Bauchi, Toro, Katagum, Alkaleri, Kirfi, Misau, Zaki, Gamawa, Giade, Shira, Jamaare, Itas, Ganjuwa, Ningi, Dass, Tafawa Balewa, Bogoro and Darazo” POLL “At the end of the exercise, a total of five hundred and ninety eight (598) premises were visited. This comprises five hundred and fifty-seven (557) Patent Medicines Shops (PMS) and forty-one (41) Pharmacies. A total of four hundred and sixty nine (469) premises were sealed comprising twenty three (23) pharmacies and four hundred and forty six (446) Patent Medicines Shops. Thirteen (13) compliance directives were issued for various offences such as poor sanitary conditions, poor documentation and non-display of premises and pharmacists annual licences.” “It is against the guidelines for patent medicine stores to engage in clinical services because they don’t have the capacity to handle some of these cases and when there is any side effects from those drugs, they don’t have the facilities to handle them,” he stated. The Director warned that any manufacturer who sells drugs to an unauthorised dealer has committed a very big offense and would be prosecuted if found guilty, adding that the Council has been doing its best to curb the menace. “When you block them this way, they find another way, it calls for a continuous enforcement and monitoring, that’s what we’ll continue to do.We try to encourage them to do the right thing so that our people will access drugs that are safe, effective and of good quality but for those that are recalcitrant, their premises will remain closed. There are so many instances where we have charged people to court in some states but for Bauchi State, it has not gotten to that level yet.Hawkers are not licensed and we don’t license them because if we license you, your must be in a location so that anytime we come to that place, we can inspect and find out what is happening there at any given time. “Again, it is an offence to train apprentices and also an offence for underaged people to sell medicines, so when we get to premises and we find such, we close them down because they don’t know anything about those drugs” he further said Esumobi advised the public to source for all their drug needs from registered and currently licensed pharmacies and over-the-counter medicines from registered Patent Medicine shops as drug sold in unregistered outlets could not be guaranteed to be safe for consumption.