Adipro International Corp (AIC), through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) arm, Evolve works with its distributors in Nigeria, Pacegate Limited and Pacegate Energy and Resources Limited (PEARL), has launched the Inspire program to empower educators in Nigeria Inspire is a 3-day value-based education enrichment programme assisting educators to develop a heart-centred approach to teaching. This will enable trainers take a holistic approach towards student growth using 21st century styles of learning such as the Heartfulness Way. -Advertisement- The aim of this programme is to create a loving and compassionate learning environment through the heart-based approach. Teachers and students collaborate in the Heart-Based Teaching (HBT) approach to not only achieve the cognitive goals of school and performance readiness, but also to create a classroom environment conducive to the development of the social emotional knowledge and skills associated with personal and career success. The Inspire programme being implemented in Nigeria commenced with the training of 18 teachers from these 6 schools (Ilupeju Junior Grammar School, Ilupeju Senior Grammar School, Ilupeju Junior Secondary School, Ilupeju Senior Secondary School, Estate Junior Grammar School and Estate Senior Grammar School) in the Educational District VI within Ilupeju. The three-day training facilitated by international professionals across the world, covered Facilitation skills, Heartful teacher, Heterogenous learners, Heart-centred education, curriculum practical workshop, communication skills, inspired learning, as well as Experiencing Heartfulness and Certificate Distribution. “This year, we are introducing the Value-adding Inspire Program to help these students communicate and understand clearly what they are being taught in schools. Global Studies have shown that the best way to make lasting change is through the teachers, we are scaling up gradually”, said Godwin Ejeh, Head of Corporate Social Responsibility – Pacegate Group, Distributor of Adipro Chemicals in Nigeria. Sharing her experience as a participant of the Inspire program, Mrs. Fahm -Bello, a Teacher at Ilupeju Junior Grammar School said, “the training has been an eye opener. POLL The highlight for me was the communication skills workshop which I intend to put into practice with the students. They taught us to teach from the heart because when teachers are invested in their pupils, they become invested in themselves, their peers, their teachers, and their education.”