LAGOS – For Nigeria, the race to next year’s Africa U20 Cup of Nations begins on Sunday (today) when sev­en-time African champi­ons Nigeria go up against arch rivals Ghana in a po­tentially –intense opener to Group B at the WAFU B U20 Championship in Niamey. The encounter will see the two countries renew their soccer rivalry in the sub-region of the conti­nent. Both West African gi­ants will flex muscles at the Stade General Seyni Kountché in the Nigerien capital as from 5pm, with the winner certain to be on firm footing for a place in the semi finals from a pool boasting only three teams. Burkina Faso is the other team in the group, and they will take on the Flying Eagles on Wednesday next week. -Advertisement- Ghana are the defend­ing champions of both the WAFU B U20 Champion­ship and the Africa U20 Cup of Nations. In Porto Novo at the end of year 2020, the Black Satellites defeated their counter­parts from Burkina Faso 2-1 in the final to lift the trophy, and then went ahead to defeat Uganda 2-0 in the final of the Af­rica U20 Cup of Nations in Mauritania few months later. However, the global coronavirus pandemic obliterated the global fi­nals that were slated for Indonesia. Head Coach Ladan Bosso returned to Nia­mey on Friday after at­tending the third-day fidau prayers for his late mother. Bosso believes his boys are in good spir­it following a 1-0 win over the Niger Republic U20 team and another 4-0 win over a Nigerien top League team in their last two preparatory matches in Niamey. Team Secretary Aliyu Ibrahim Lawal told thenff. com that officials of the Nigeria Embassy in Nia­mey have been very sup­portive of the team and are making efforts to mo­bilize Nigerians living in the Nigerien capital to come and support the Flying Eagles at the big match. The tournament began on Saturday with hosts Ni­ger Republic battled it out with the U20 boys of Cote d’Ivoire, while Togo and Benin Republic clashed in the second match of the day.Both matches were played at the Stade Gen­eral Seyni Kountché. POLL Only the two finalists will qualify to represent WAFU B at next year’s Af­rica U20 Cup of Nations to be hosted by Egypt. Indonesia will host the 2023 FIFA U20 World Cup finals.