LAGOS – Aviation agencies Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) have been challenged to improve training on Quality Management Systems (QMS) for their Aeronautical Information Management (AIM) personnel. Capt. Alkali Modibbo, Rector, Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) Zaria, specifically said AIM personnel in the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and NCAT required consistent training to remaining relevant in the job. Speaking as the Chairman on the occasion of the 2022 World Aeronautical Information Day in Abuja, recently, Modibbo stated that this would ensure development of local expertise on the system. -Advertisement- Moidibbo suggested that the personnel should be issued with a license on the system after a successful training period with a higher priority at the time of transition from the Aeronautic Information Service (AIS) to AIM. The NCAT boss said it was worthy to note that all other relevant stakeholders relying on information provided by AIS are licensed, yet the provider of the trusted aeronautical information had been left behind, saying it was more urgent to ensure quality of aeronautical information. “The role and importance of aeronautical information/data has changed significantly with the implementation of Area Navigation Systems (RNAV), Required Navigation Performance (RNP) and airborne computer-based navigation systems. “These systems are all data-dependent, and in that respect aeronautical data have become the crucial and critical components of the system,” he said. The NCAT boss noted that the significance of QMS in aeronautical information dissemination could not be overemphasized, saying that it provides pilots with all the critical data to safely and efficiently operate flights. POLL Modibbo pointed out that aviation, a sector that relies heavily on safety could not afford to not ensure efficiency at all times, stressing that data provided must therefore be of high integrity and readily accessible in the right digital format.