Rice is an increasingly important crop in Nigeria. It is relatively easy to produce and is grown for sale and for home consumption. In some areas there is a long tradition of rice growing, but for many, rice has been considered a luxury food for special occasions only. With the increased availability of rice, it has become part of the everyday diet of many in Nigeria. -Advertisement- Nigerians spent not less than N1 billion daily on rice consumption, while spending had drastically reduced, consumption had increased because of increased local production of the commodity. The consumption rate now is 7.9 million tones and the production rate has increased to 5.8 tons per annum. This is as a result of CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) with a total of 12 million rice producers and 4 million hectares of FADAMA rice land. Since inception of the program it has created economic linkage between Small Holder Farmers (SHF) and reputable large-scale processors, thereby increasing agricultural outputs and significantly improving capacity utilization of processors. The season has come, and the first phase of rice harvest has started. POLL This is as a result has forced local rice price to come down from 26,000 to 22,500 and will still come down because many rice farmers will soon start harvesting. With the above you will be sure of getting enough quantity of local rice to process, package and brand into your own name. The local rice are available in different states in Nigeria such as Kano, kaduna, Enugu,Gombe State, Niger State, Kebbi State, Ebonyi State, Anambra State,Cross River. All you need to do is to buy the 100kg bag local rice de-stone and colure sort it, colour sorting is optional, brand and bag into different kg such as 2kg,5kg,10kg,25kg with your brand name and supply to shops. Branding in rice is key as your brand will sell your rice as far as it is good. Nigerians are after Nigerian rice without stones and chaff. You can as well buy paddy from farmer’s process it yourself to the standard you want, package and brand to your name. You don’t need to own a rice mill before venturing into this business; there are rice mills that are there to provide the needed services for you. Things You Need To Consider Before Going Into Rice Branding And Packaging Capital: The capital you need depends on the scale you want to operate such as small, medium-large scale. But any amount from N250,000 will go a long way. Rice variety: You really need to investigate all kinds of rice varieties in Nigeria. At least the popular ones in your area or areas they are cheap. Market: Decide your market better still, look for one. Your market is your business and not the product. Yes, the product is the value you offer for money. But the people in your market are the ones that will pay. No pay no business. Miller: This is where your work really starts. You need to go to the rural areas where there are local rice millers. Look for a miller with “modern” equipment and excellent perboiling and drying techniques. Also look out for high level of hygiene. Alternatively, you can as well buy semi processed rice in the open market and do the finishing yourself. Mini Rice Mill: You can own a mini rice mill if you are buying semi processed rice from the open market. The equipment you need are De-stoner, colour sorting (optional), bag locking machine and scale. This will make the business a little easier for you. Your Brand and Packaging: After all the work has been done. You must present yourself, your product in the right package to attract the best buyers. This is because it is a good name that will sell. There are bags in the open market you can buy and bag your rice if you don’t have the capacity to brand your own bag, these bags are called Nigerian rice, such as Royal Nija Rice, Royal Crown Jemila. Finally, the return on investment in rice branding and packaging business is sure as a result of ban on rice importation and Nigerians are now aware of the nutritional value of local rice to foreign rice which has little or no nutritional value. As far as you have good rice to your brand name you will sell and be patronized by Nigerians.