LAGOS  – The Nigeria Labour Congress,NLC, has advocated the need for immediate rehabilitation of Nigeria’s refineries and the building of new refineries, in line with the agreement reached with government in September 2020. It also said the development was necessary as a sustainable solution to the incessant crises of fuel scarcity and high energy costs in the country. The union gave the suggestions in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting of its central working committee in Abuja. -Advertisement- The union also implored the Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority to ensure that imported refined petroleum products comply with industry standards and that petrol is sold at the official pump price in all the states and filling stations in Nigeria. It advised that violators should be prosecuted and made to face the full wrath of the law. The union also emphasized the need for the reversal of the privatization of the electricity sector. It explained that the reversal should be executed using the current 5-year review window, improvement in public electricity supply, immediate provision of pre-paid meters to electricity consumers, the stoppage of estimated billings and prosecution of the electricity distribution companies who criminally extort electricity consumers especially workers of their money under the guise of estimated billings. The union described the current siege of insecurity as totally unacceptable and called on government to rein in this monstrous cancer before it consumes the entire country. POLL It said:”The CWC called for the declaration of all-out war against terrorists and their sponsors including those who divert funds meant to fight the security insurgency. While commiserating with Nigerians and workers who have lost loved ones and colleagues to the current siege of insecurity in the country, the CWC calls on government to focus on the immediate release from captivity of all abducted citizens including all the kidnapped Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu, students from Niger, Kebbi and Kaduna states, Abuja-Kaduna train abductees, the governorship candidate of Labour Party in Anambra State abducted since September 2021 and other Nigerians being held hostage in different kidnappers den. The CWC also called on government to nip in the bud current intelligence on the threat by terrorists to resort to mass bombings. “The CWC calls on workers to keep their ears to the ground on the political bearing of Nigeria’s working class especially as the Congress consummates its political engagement with the Labour Party and progressive groups across the country for the rescue of Nigeria from the hands of political opportunists and undertakers. The CWC reiterated the readiness of Nigerian workers to use their Permanent Voter Cards to vote only candidates and political parties that subscribe to Nigerian Workers Charter of Demands”