One of eight players who are said to be on their way out of Manchester United is Nemanja Matic. The player has decided to leave at the end of his deal, with AS Roma manager and former United boss, Jose Mourinho, wanting to bring him to Rome. Nemanja Matic recently decided that he no longer wants to continue at Old Trafford. This is purely down to becoming a bit-part player at the age of 33; he only managed to make 23 Premier League appearances this season, 16 of them being starts. No rumours of where to next followed the news of him running down his deal; that is until now, however, with Jose Mourinho keen to build on a somewhat good season by adding some experienced players from his old club. -Advertisement- The Daily Mail reports: that along with Matic three other players, two of Matic’s Manchester United teammates and the other from Aston Villa, are on the Portuguese’s radar. Eric Bailly and Diogo Dalot are the pair of United boys while Douglas Luiz is the player from Villa Park. Signing out-of-favour players and bargain buys are Roma and Jose’s modus operandi. Hence the pursuit of Bailly, Dalot, and Matic. They are his signings at his previous club(s) and he would find a good use for them as they might find a new lease of life under Jose, just as Chris Smalling and Tammy Abraham. Bailly and Dalot are also not in the future plans at the Theatre of Dreams and will be moved on to free up funds and space for potential incomings at the Manchester club in the new Erik Ten Hag era. Jose Mourinho is ready to offer lifelines to four Premier League cast-offs as he looks to use his knowledge of English football to bolster Roma’s pursuit of the Champions League Nemanja Matic, who recently informed United of his desire to leave at the end of the season, Diogo Dalot and Eric Bailly are three of the four Mourinho is reportedly after for next season. Both Bailly and Dalot, who has proven himself in Serie A before on loan at AC Milan, are no longer part of United’s plans and are set to be deemed surplus to requirements under new boss Erik ten Hag. The other name that has come up is that of Aston Villa’s Douglas Luiz. Luiz is one of Mourinho’s favourite players and at just 23, the Brazilian is still yet to hit his best form. (Via: dailymail.co.uk) POLL Despite the strong links of a potential reunion between Mourinho and Matic, reports out of Italy believe the club is not on the same wavelength as their manager about the player. They have huge concerns over his overall fitness, wage demand and age, being on the other side of 30. According to the Gazzetta dello Sport, Matic is the first choice on Mourinho’s list of players to strengthen his Giallorossi midfield next term. However, the same source suggests Roma are not entirely convinced that Matic is the right pick. His age and general fitness levels are a concern, especially considering he is asking for at least €5m per season in wages. Matic is one of those loyal servants that has followed Mourinho almost all over, signing for him at Chelsea and Manchester United, also playing his most under him with 159 appearances. That’s why it’s not hard to understand why he has seen his most features under the Roma boss and why he wants him at the club, as they reinforce their squad for their second attempt at reaching a Champions League spot. The Giallorossi coach has his last game of the season this Friday, kicking off the final day of the Serie A 2021/22 season. They have a chance to secure sixth place with an early victory and confirm their place in next season’s Europa League competition.