Ahead of the forthcoming PDP delegate elections, Senator Bukola Saraki has declared his commitment to free up the solid minerals subsector to create massive jobs for the youths as a means to tackle insecurity in the country.This is as he asked delegates from Kogi state to cast their votes for him as a solidarity for one of their own in the presidential race for the first time since the return of democracy in 1999. Senator Bukola Saraki, made the disclosure on Sunday, when he met with the Kogi state delegates in Lokoja. Saraki, a two term Governor of Kwara state, two term senator and Senate president maintained that he possessed the needed capacity and experience to wriggle the country out of its predicament. -Advertisement- He added that as former chairman, Governors forum, and president of the Senate in his second lap of his tenure, he has been tested and trusted to manage the affairs of the country, stressing that he often leaves an office better than he met it. The presidential front liner assured the people of Kogi that his entrance into the race is to solidify the existing mutual relationship that existed between Kogi and Kwara, adding that his preoccupation, if elected, is to work assiduously to strengthen interests and development of the North Central Zone. He urged delegates whom he ascribed to be one of them, to vote enmass for him, so that they could be part of the history making as he would be the first from north Central zone to be democratically elected president of Nigeria. He said , having spent some years in high echelon of governance with distinction, he is aware of the challenges facing the country, which made him more prepared among his competitors to preside over the affairs of the nation at this critical time of our nationhood. According to him” There is a bond between kogi and Kwara. I’m a bridge between the North and the South, Young and Old and between Christians and Muslims. What our Country needs now is Unity and i have done excellently well on this in my previous national assignments.” POLL He decried the action of the present regime to obtain loans for consumption, hinting that , he vehemently opposed the establishment while he held sway in the Senate. He assured the people that his presidency will galvanise the solid minerals deposits endowed in the North Central Zone to be the main driver of the economy, adding that he will attract Foreign direct Investment FDI to create direct and indirect employment for the teeming youths thereby reducing incidence of insecurity in the country. While stressing the need to strengthen education, Health, Agriculture and Socio-economic sectors for national roadmap , said, he will fight insecurity head on , as there wouldn’t be development without peace. He called on the delegates to shun inducement of any guise rather , they should vote for him for sustainable impact on their lives after election. In their separate remarks, former Governors, Ibrahim Idris, and Idris Wada, urged the delegates to cast their votes for Senator Saraki whom they acknowledge has the wherewithal to change ugly narratives of the nation.