Olorogun Ede Omueya Dafinone has declared his intention to contest for the Delta Central Senatorial seat under the All Progressives Congress with the promise to consolidate the quality representation of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. Dafinone who made this known during his official declaration in Ughelli, Ughelli North Local Government Area, said he offered himself to serve the people of Delta Central Senatorial District at the Nigeria Senate to improve on the wellbeing of the Urhobo people. The declaration ceremony attended by thousands of APC members, Dafinone said, after proper consultation with his family, party leaders, critical stakeholders in Urhoboland and associates, he purchased the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms for Senate on the platform of All Progressives Congress, to serve the people of Delta Central Senatorial District and the Urhobo Nation in the Senate. According to him, “I am running with the hope that the people of Delta Central Senatorial District will allow me to the Senate to deploy my knowledge and experience as a Chartered Accountant and philanthropist, understands issues that matter most to Urhobo nation and Nigeria. “In offering myself to represent our people, I am mindful of their expectations and needs which I understand very well, having served in various committees of the Urhobo Progress Union and currently chairman of the Sapele Okpe Community Land Trust Association. “Trustee of Okpe Union, and Treasurer and Trustee of the Okpe Leaders of Thought. As the next senator representing Delta Central Senatorial District, I won’t avoid any challenges, but will put Urhobo nation first in all of my decisions”, he said. While noting that the rising insecurity in Nigeria is as a result of rising unemployment, among the youths, Dafinone vowed to create jobs for youths and women to solve the insecurity problem and harness the demographic dividend associated with the rising population. Dafinone who in the past 6 years had been running social and community projects to provide scholarships for post-graduate education, disburse micro-credit loans to women and support the development of vocational skills within Delta State with over 2000 persons empowered through the Dafinone Foundation, further vowed to campaign tirelessly to promote Nigeria made products and work to enact laws to create an enabling environment for manufacturing sectors to thrive and also make the federal government adopt a policy, to revitalize seaports in the south, particularly the Okwagbe deep-sea and Sapele ports to promote the export of produce from the Niger Delta area and also decongest Lagos port if elected. POLL He however urged all party men and women, most especially the delegates to the forthcoming APC Senatorial primary to give 100percent support in order to sustain, consolidate and build on the good work Senator Ovie Omo-Agege started for the Urhobo Nation. Dafinone is the Chairman of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria Export Promotion Group (MANEG) and Nexportrade Houses Limited, member of the Board of NEXIM Bank, Chairman of Sapele Integrated Industries Limited, Chairman of the Nigerian Conservation Foundation and trustee of the Guild of Fine Artists.