The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has called out the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, expressing that the Fulani people will not give him the 2023 Presidential ticket. The IPOB’s spokesperson, Emma Powerful disclosed this in statement titled: “Dave Umahi Fulani will not give you the Presidential ticket and not to talk about President of Nigeria,” The statement reads: “The attention of the global movement and family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) under the command and leadership of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU has been drawn to the fallacious and laughable statement credited to the governor of Ebonyi state Eng. -Advertisement- “Dave Umahi as usual was ranting and calling Igbos liars, calling IPOB family group liars and claiming that Fulani people were not killing or burning down properties belonging to Biafrans in Biafraland and anywhere in the country. “Well, what else can you expect from a man who does not know his actual roots? Such statements from a very insecure man do not surprise or bother us in the least because we know where he is coming from and where he is irretrievably heading to. “Any individual or politician who ridicules his people because of politics will certainly reap the reward of such misadventure and David Umahi will not be an exception. People should ask David Umahi why no Fulani terrorist governor in the North or politician ever condemn the activities of Fulani terrorists like bandits, Boko Haram and other terrorist groups rampaging the North but they will ask him to prove his loyalty by condemning and killing those he claims are his people. Thank CHUKWUOKIKEABIAMA for IPOB and our great leader Mazi Nnamdi the Fulani would have pursued governor Dave Umahi out from Ebonyi state since two years ago. “Acquiring certificates does not confer common sense to the acquirer that is the sorry and pitiable state David Umahi has found himself in. For him to say that Ebonyi state is not part of Biafra means that he is suffering from chronic delusion and mental paralysis. Who told him that he has the mandate of our people in Ebonyi state to decide for them? David Umahi at best can only vote as an individual during the referendum, and he is entitled to cast his vote for Nigeria for all we care but we assure him that during the referendum his family members will vote for Biafra, not Nigeria. “The governor of Ebonyi State Dave Umahi is on record lamenting the atrocities committed last year by Fulani terrorists masquerading as herdsmen who attacked part of his state and murdered over 100 innocent citizens of the state. Now he is suddenly suffering from amnesia and no longer has any recollection of his senses. Leaders my foot.“Fulani Herdsmen have been pillaging and killing innocent citizens in the states of Enugu, Anambra, Abia, Imo and Ebonyi States for a very long time now. Dave Umahi has forgotten where he was shedding tears because of the level of killing which Fulani did in his state last year but today because he wants to use the blood of our people as a bargaining chip for his unattainable selfish political ambition. I forgot he was shedding the politicians’ insincere crocodile tears then and he must exonerate the Fulani terrorists, and herdsmen, in Nigeria and blame the innocent victim and peaceful Igbo and Biafrans for these killings. POLL “David Umahi may be blind to the footprint of the wanton killings of innocent civilians by the Fulani Herdsmen adjudged the 4th most deadly terror group in the world, but this is not hidden to the world and the international community understand how Fulani murder innocent citizens in the whole of Nigeria and not only in our region and Igboland but in all states and regions. He should therefore stop exhibiting his stupidity to the world to see and begin to ask if this man is not an Igbo man. “The whole world today understands what IPOB is fighting for and we must get it.”