ABUJA – The Nigerian Econom­ic Summit Group (NESG) has called for the election of trans­formational leadership that will birth a new Nigeria in all tiers of government as the 2023 general elections draw closer. Mr. Asue Ighodalo, Chair­man of the NESG, made the call on Friday in Abuja at the National Economic Dialogue organised by NESG with the objective of arousing national consciousness about the state of the Nigerian economy. Ighodalo tasked the gov­ernment to address six critical challenges causing economic dysfunction which include weak and non-inclusive eco­nomic growth, macroeconomic instability, infrastructure defi­cit, human capital deficit and skills gap, national insecurity and weak economic competi­tiveness. -Advertisement- He lamented that following the return of democratic gov­ernance in the country in 1999 that the hopes and expectations of Nigerians have been contin­uously dashed, adding that the vision of a peaceful, prosperous, united, strong and cohesive fed­eration where the rule of law prevailed, and no person is op­pressed seemed to be dimmed and elusive, considering the formidable challenges facing the nation today. In view of the plethora of challenges confronting the na­tion, he pointed out that Nigeria is at crossroads, adding that it has become imperative to elect leaders who think globally and act locally to tackle seemingly development problems plagu­ing the country. “The emergence of such enlightened leadership—credi­ble, competent, courageous, re­form-mindedandabletorebuild the institutions of governance is what Nigerians desperately need now. “It is our collective task, in the national interest, to ensure that such a leader, fit for purpose, will emerge at the conclusion of the 2023 presidential election. “If we make the right choic­es, within the decade, Nigeria can become a leading industri­alising and reforming nation in Africa that focuses on building its state capacity and capabili­ties; the country will break free from decades-long political, policy, legislative and regulatory constraints. POLL “We will create an enabling investment climate and busi­ness environment underpinned by a motivated, capacitated, well-resourced, world-class civil service that drives open, trans­parent and high-performance governance,” Ighodalo stated. He, therefore, urged Nigeri­ans to participate in the political process and ensure the election of the best candidates from various political parties. “We must insist that as our politicians begin to set or re­shape their plan on the way for­ward, they will be mindful of the various negative socio-eco­nomic indicators and not lose sight or focus on finding a path to transformational progress. “We, the citizens need to pay attention to the quality of our political system, processes, insti­tutions, and economic reforms. Our collective responsibility is to deliver a first-world country with happy and safe citizens. “This is a call to national ser­vice. We must be more involved, more selfless and more tolerant, acting in the national interest,” he explained. During the panel session, Osita Ogbu, Professor of Eco­nomics and Director, Institute for Development Studies, Uni­versity of Nigeria, Nsukka, said a non-inclusive economy is a recipe for insecurity in the country.