P/HARCOURT – Besides oil and gas, Akwa Ibom is one state in the Niger Delta region that is blessed with several mineral resources. It therefore calls for question why the state is slow in terms of economic development in 34 years of its existence. It was on the strength of the above that Journalists in Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital accosted one of the governorship aspirants from Akwa Ibom state at the zonal headquarters of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, to establish what any of them would do differently if he becomes the next governor of the state. Speaking with journalists shortly after his screening, former Commissioner for special duties and aviation development, Mr. Akan Okon whose ideas gave birth to the Ibom Air that bolsters the fiscal and economic development priorities of the state, said he was in the race not for selfish aggrandizement but to add value to the people of Akwa Ibom state and by extension the Niger Delta region and Nigeria at large. -Advertisement- He explained that apart from crude oil, the state is mineral-rich as it sits on about eleven solid minerals. But the viability and quantity has not yet been established, adding that he would demonstrate commitment to unlocking and tapping the endowed mineral resources to diversify the economy. “We shall follow up and implement the 2020 post-COVID-19 economic reconstruction committee recommendations, make efforts to establish links with the federal government for the purpose of geological survey to ascertain the quantity of solid minerals in the state”. The former Commissioner for Finance explained that Akwa state has enjoyed a favorable position over the years in the ease of doing business ranking in Nigeria. “This explains the presence of a host of micro, small and medium enterprises in the state”. He went on to say that there is no state policy or master plan on infrastructure, noting that “we shall develop a comprehensive infrastructure development plan as part of the 50-year long term economic development plan. The governorship hopeful revealed that agriculture accounts for about 80% total employment in the state and could be considered the main stay of the state economy. POLL Akan who was also commissioner for finance in two administrations because of his prudence in finance management told journalists that Akwa Ibom is estimated to have 38% of population participatory directly or indirectly in cooperative based societies contributing substantial percentage of total gross domestic product. “Cooperatives have been strong in financing education, agriculture, housing, health and commercial societies. On that note, we shall encourage thrift and promote cash savings among members. “We shall encourage the spirit and practice of mutual and self-help to improve the living and working conditions of citizens”, he promised. Akan, who is adjudged to be the most preferred candidate to succeed Governor Ubom Emmanuel who is currently on consultations for his presidential ambition promised to invoke the doctrine of safe, clean and environmentally friendly transportation system across the various mix: inter and intra local government transportation urban marine transportation. According to him, this will focus on the construction, activation and modernization of jetty and terminus to instill confidence in passengers for smooth movement of people and goods. As a former Commissioner in charge of the Ibom deep seaport, Hon Akan said the value chain of the economic benefits of the port when it comes to full operation would not only ignite instant development of Akwa Ibom state but that of the entire Niger Delta and by extension Nigeria as a whole. “Yes, the Ibom deep seaport is strategically located and it will take adequate care of the current unemployment in Nigeria. Besides that, it will boost the Nigerian economy. The fact is that, the Ibom deep seaport will enhance the development of the entire Niger Delta region and it will put Akwa Ibom in particular on the map of development”.