ISEGHE AJAYI Surviving in these dire hard times can be very challenging due to the high cost of living caused by never-ending high inflation which has continued to determine the worth of Naira negatively. The unpleasant situation has continued to threaten the very existence of the common folks as well as the high and mighty especially with the unpredictable rise in the prices of commodities. -Advertisement- The value of the Naira has depreciated immensely particularly when compared with foreign currencies such as Dollars, Pounds Sterling and Euros. And this has truly affected the business and economy environment adversely such that money kept in the bank for savings has become worthless the more, if not invested wisely. But then, the best way to survive in this unfavourable economy is to adjust your financial lifestyle by being yourself and focus on those things or items that are essentials. Working on your mindset positively to shield yourself and family from this endless virus will also do you good. What Inflation Does To Your Finances Inflation is a killer of our finances as well as investments and has no respect for anybody’s financial status. It fuels the constant rise in the prices of goods and services which certainly brings down the purchasing power of individuals over-time. POLL It is quite true that reaching financial set goals during inflation can be very hard because inflation moves sneakily and slowly. Besides, it can take decades to have a significant upshot on your financial goals, making it the silent killer of your finances. It is important to plan for it because when you relate inflation to your earnings and expenses, you will certainly want your money to grow at least as hastily as inflation does to avoid financial heartache. Do you know that if your money does not keep up with inflation, it will be quite difficult to cover your daily rising expenses? That is why it is critical you try as much as possible to guard yourself from inflation because if unplanned for, you will in the long run discover that you did not save or invest and to avoid the blame game, you need to defeat it by prioritising your needs. The under listed tips will help you to handle inflation in this unfavourable economy: Purchase Essential Items If you actually desire to handle inflation, there is need to cut out the wants and go for items that are you cannot do without to minimise cost. That is why if your budget is the busy one that entails all household items, there is need to streamline it such that it can accommodate savings. Slash items that are not essential to avoid wastes. Do Bulk Purchases It will really do you good to buy food items in bulk to lessen cost and save extra money. It is very true that with retail buying, you tend to spend more but if you really want to see the worth of your hard-earned money in these terrible hard times, do bulk buying especially in food items and at markets where they sell in wholesale. Stick To Your Spending Plan One way to protect yourself against rising inflation is actually not in the area of investment but on your expenses. The big risk of inflation is that the money you spend on a monthly basis is always on the increase and there is nothing you can do about it, other than going back to your drawing board or spending plan if you truly desire to survive the situation. Endeavour to stick to your spending plan so as not to overshoot your budget. Besides, you can also eliminate expenses that are not expedient to accommodate savings. Patronise Locally Made Goods Several people regardless of their social status have penchant for foreign items whose prices have continued to rise beyond the reach of many due to increase in foreign exchange and import duties. Despite that, some individuals are not ready to let go of this habit and are ready to go to the extent of borrowing money to purchase foreign items. Rather than living a lifestyle of debts or make-belief, why not go for locally produced items which can still meet your needs particularly if you do not have the wherewithal. Do you know that to surmount inflation, you must be prepared to amend your lifestyle especially if you crave financial freedom! Rent/Location One way of beating inflation is to be truthful to yourself by not impressing people. If your rent is on the high side and paying it as at and when due is becoming hard for you, there is no big deal in relocating to a place where the rent is affordable. Better still, you can go for a moderate apartment that is within your means in your preferred location to reduce cost. Education Owing to the rise in the cost of commodities, nearly all schools especially privately owned schools have increased their fees arbitrarily all in the name of providing ‘quality education.’ But, if you are one of those badly hit by inflation and as such, finding it difficult to cope with your children’s school fees, why not change their school since you can still get qualitative education for them in a cheaper school and at the same location. Sell Disposable Items Why keeping items that have value for money that you can afford not to use? Since survival to several people is quite demanding owing to the unpalatable state of the economy, it is really pertinent to increase your sources of income to survive. For example, if you have several cars and suffer a job loss or your business is nose-diving, there is nothing wrong in disposing some of your cars to get money to resuscitate your business. You can also use them for Uber business to enhance your financial life. Lease Your House If you live in a big house, a duplex or bungalow and your earnings are adversely affected by inflation, why not partition the apartment and rent the remaining part to make money and reduce your financial hassle. Besides, real estate is a lucrative and appreciable business even in inflation. Save In Foreign Currencies The simplest and safest way to keep your money free from inflation is to hold it in a legal tender that is not as prone to inflation as the Naira. If the CBN chooses to dump its pegged exchange rate system for a floating exchange, the worth of the Naira will better reveal the inflation rate. Currencies such as the Dollar, Euro and Pounds Sterling have done better than the Naira because they are backed by stronger economies. The most common way to keep or save foreign currency is to open a domiciliary account in a Nigerian bank but the process can be quite tiresome and you will have to pay monthly maintenance charges on the account.