An internecine war of an­archic proportions has ensued in Delta state. And the state that has been governed by the Peoples Democrat­ic Party, PDP since the return of multi-party democracy in 1999 is in turmoil. In fact , it is on the verge of tipping over and into the grasp of the opposition party, All Progressive Congress, APC. That is because the incumbent state Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa’s preferred candidate, Sherriff Obor­ovwori, who is currently the speak­er of the House of Assembly, has literarily mauled his opponents in the gubernatorial primaries contest held on Wednesday, May 25, 2022. He clinched the victory by polling a whopping 590 votes of the 825 dele­gates. That means that only about 265 delegates voted for the rest of the 14 contenders for the office of the gov­ernor of Delta state in 2023. In some states like Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Cross Rivers, etc the governors ‘anointed’ candidates scored landslide victory, leaving the opponents winning votes that can be counted on the fingers of a single hand or at best two hands. -Advertisement- So compared with the results of the party primaries in the afore­mentioned jurisdictions, prying out over 200 votes from the grasp of the anointed candidate in Delta state can actually be considered a feat. Draw­ing from the wisdom in an adage that is popular amongst my tribesmen, which is that it is the person that has the knife and the yam that is at liberty to decide the portion of yam that he/she shares out to others, the party delegates election for produc­ing the candidates for 2023 general elections was bound to go the way it has turned out. And it is doubtless that transpar­ency in how delegates list is drawn up by the governor of a state with more involvement of other stake­holders and within a set of rules which are immutable, is amongst the grey areas that future reviews of the electoral laws of our country should focus attention in order to improve on the recruitment process of polit­ical leaders at the grassroots level. Relying on the aphorism, if the foundation of a building is weak, the integrity of the structure would be in jeopardy, a grossly undemocratic practice of democracy at the sub-na­tional level as evidenced by the ma­nipulation of state electoral agencies by the governors and production of party delegates list whimsically, in­stead of being based on established and strictly observed parameters, (as is the case with INEC) is tantamount to attempting to build a house on sinking sand. And such incongruity as reflected by the flawed system at the grassroots level needs to be ur­gently addressed, altruistically. The assertion or advise above is justified or derives from the fact that those who may be benefiting from the ab­normalities today, would ultimately be victims tomorrow. Since a system standing on a foundation of clay, instead of rock of democracy, would not withstand a stress test, the structure would soon after its erection go with the wind. Arising from the above, a situa­tion whereby the party delegates list is at the behest of the sitting gover­nor is antithetical to democracy. That is simply because, equity and fairness would be presumed to have been trifled with by the state gover­nor, who as the leader of the party in the state, would ensure that the names that make it into the delegates list are those that are malleable. POLL Against the backdrop of the cir­cumstances highlighted above, it is unsurprising that the closest rival to the winner of the PDP primaries in Delta state, David Edevbie, gar­nered a mere 113 votes compared to the number of votes polled by the winner, the speaker of the House of Assembly, Sherriff Oborovwori, who is the governors preferred candidate. Rather than lament, the man who polled the second highest votes in the contest has been stoic as if he has acquiesced with the loss by hinging it on the common philosophy: win some, lose some. That is the attitude of Edevbie, a former Commissioner for Finance from 1999 to 2006 under Chief James lbori as governor, and later, Com­missioner for Finance in 2015-2019, then served as Chief of Staff to the incumbent governor, Okowa, until a few months ago. Another ranking member of the class of 1999, who was Commission­er for Works 1999-2003, under lbori’s watch as governor, Senator James Manager, received a paltry 83 votes to take the third position in the race. He too has taken the loss like a sports­man. That is in spite of the fact that he is the pioneer chairman of the ruling party, PDP at its inception in 1999. The rest of the contestants, par­ticularly, the incumbent Deputy Governor, Kingsley Otuaro, and the immediate past Commissioner for Works, Peter Mkrapor, tied with 9 votes apiece. When the total votes cast for the 13 other contestants against the speak­er, Oborovwori are combined, it is a little more than 200 votes. As such, the votes drawn for the winner by and large is more or less a tripling of the combined votes cast for other contenders. Such is the power of incumben­cy that enables the governor under whose watch the election is held to exclusively draw up the delegates list which is to be relied upon by all the contestants including the favored and disfavored contestants. It is wor­thy to state that the outcomes of the primaries conducted in the various states where the candidates chosen by the governors won the contest are similar to how state electoral com­missions always ‘deliver’ the candi­dates of the ruling party in the local government chairman and counsel­lor elections. That is simply because, since it is the governors that appoint the state electoral commission members, they are often obliged to do the governor’s bidding. Which is in consonance with the dictum, “He who pays the piper, calls the tune.” That anomaly or perfidy, if we must call a spade by its name, is the bane of democracy at the grassroots level which is reflected by the trend whereby the two major parties, APC and PDP enjoy predominance of their members as local government chairmen and councillors courtesy of their ‘dutiful’ electoral agencies . Thus, there is hardly any APC or PDP-led state without all the LGA chairmen and councilors being members of the state’s ruling party. As a democracy advocate, it must be stated, no matter whose ox is gored that such an anti-democracy practice is deplorable and needs to be condemned, and replaced with a more transparent process that is guided and guarded with democracy ethos. This is the way to improve the fidelity of the process of recruitment of politicians at the grassroots level and the concomitant deepening of our democracy at the subnational level. Imagine what would have become of our democracy at the national level, if Independent National Elec­toral Commission, INEC were to be at the beck and call of the president of Nigeria as state electoral com­missions are made to function like departments in the office of state governors? Autocracy, rather than democracy would have been en­trenched in Nigeria and that could have been akin to what obtains in Russia or at best, Turkey. Before the delegates’ election con­test in Delta state, Governor Okowa had not hidden his preference for the current speaker of the State House of Assembly, Sherrif Oborefovwori to take over the reins of government from him, as opposed to Edevbie, who is the candidate favoured by Urhobo Progressive Union, UPU, a socio-cultural group of the largest ethnic stock in Delta state. Of course, it is within the ambit of the governor to have a choice of successor and on whom he anchored his support. After all, President Mu­hammadu Buhari had stated in a television interview that he has a preferred candidate that he would like to succeed him as he exits Aso Rock Villa next year. Indeed, decod­ing who that candidate really is has been as tasking as untying the pro­verbial Gordian knot by APC mem­bers keen on stepping into Buhari’s shoes next year and indeed the entire country that is currently waiting to hear from president Buhari who the mystery candidate truly is. That is even as the APC delegates congress that should have been wrapped up on May 30, has been postponed for the umpteenth time while waiting for Mr. president’s weighty utterance on the matter. But ordinarily, the president does not have as much latitude as a state governor has to literally produce a candidate by fiat or via manipulation of the delegates list. His underlying reason for his lim­itation is the fact that the national delegates list for the election of a presidential candidate comes from all 36 states and 774 local councils nationwide. In light of the fact that stakeholders in the states and re­gions may have their own different agendas, it is more daunting for a president to impose his candidate in an election. Except via consensus, that is if the president is charismatic and ven­erated by his party men and women, perhaps like president Buhari. A major stakeholder in the Delta state governorship election is Chief James Ibori, who is the pioneer governor of the state following the return of multi-party democracy 1999-2007 and therefore the political father of all the aspirants to most of the political leadership positions. He also supported David Edevbie. His backing of Edevbie is derived from the fact that he was the erst­while Commissioner for Finance under his watch, so he is considered an integral part of the state’s politi­cal class of 1999, also known as the Ibori political family. After all was said and done, with the backing of the incumbent gov­ernor, the other contestants were practically turned into spectators in the event as the counting of the votes was going on with the winner’s name mimicking a sign as the announcer kept repeating it as he picked up the ballots 590 times until he announced Sheriff Oborovwori, as the winner of the party primaries. It is clearly a manifestation of the raw power of incumbency which made it possible for the governor’s will to prevail forcefully. And the out­come is doubtless a disruption of the governorship succession model in Delta state which had more or less become entrenched since 1999. As a microcosm of Nigeria, Delta state had started manifesting what l would like to refer to as governor­ship rotation malady in the manner that Nigeria is under the throes of presidency rotation malaise that has seen the main opposition party PDP, jettisoning presidency rotation prin­ciple which it had practiced since the return of multi-party democracy in 1999.