Health is wealth is a popu­lar idiom. The usage of it speaks volumes when, for instance, a family mem­ber, a friend or a colleague is sick. Moreso, when we are also not in the right frame of health. To this end, our understanding and interpretation of this idiom transcend beyond a mere statement to facts about a healthy life. What this means is that you can­not be healthy without a measure of wealth. -Advertisement- One may want to ask what then is wealth. Because several interpre­tations of wealth has made it im­possible to appreciate what wealth is all about. Especially as the majority see it as material possession. Wealth, ac­cording to the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English is “a large amount of money, property etc that a person or country owns.” It also defines it as “wealth of something”. Thus, wealth for us is not just mon­ey or material possessions but the wealthiness of our physical body, mentally and psychologically. That is why we must place premium val­ue on our physical well-being above just seeking material possession. The foregoing is tied to the abys­mal state of health of Nigerian pregnant women. That includes the collapse of the primary health care system, poor infrastructure, inter-professional rivalry, incessant labour disputes, poor accountabili­ty, and as well as inefficient and lim­ited health insurance coverage and patient-centred health financing. The above has hindered the health sector not to adequately providing health care services to pregnant Nigerian women across the country. And it is evident from the structure of health sector poten­tiality in Nigeria, with the Prima­ry Health Care Centre at the local Government Areas. Having the re­sponsibility that centrally focuses on preventive care, then we have the secondary health bodies that deal on curative levels. The last on the structure is the tertiary health institutions that provide preventive, curative care, training research and complimentary services. Interestingly, from the above, we don’t expect poor health services and care for our mothers, sisters and daughters. Recent findings of the World Health Organisation (WHO), show that Nigeria accounts for over 34 percent of global mater­nal deaths. Therefore, out of every 22 pregnant Nigerian women, one dies at the point of delivery. And the lifetime associated with the risk of an infant baby surviving is very slim. POLL Meanwhile, in developed coun­tries, the data differs as it is 1 in ev­ery 4900 pregnant women that die. However, the following are said to have contributed to pregnant women and infants dying during delivery. This includes postpartum haemorrhage, prolonged obstruc­tive labour, convulsion, infection from fever and complications from abortions. Regrettably, two-thirds of all maternal deaths that happened in sub-Saharan Africa is recorded in Nigeria. This is a sad narrative as 50,000 pregnant Nigerian women die yearly. Instructively, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, asserts that one in seven global maternal deaths occur in Nigeria, a situation whereby both Nigeria and India have been found to con­tribute to one-third of global preg­nant women deaths. The disappointment coming from our health sector structure and organisation to tackle mater­nal mortality is the reality, resulting in losing our loved ones to the cold hands of death. Seriously, research findings by experts have provided that close to 95 per cent of deaths during child­birth are preventable. The question now is how much effort is the Nigerian State under­taking to save the lives of pregnant women and infant babies? This is because the rate is alarming and it is not just a fixat­ed problem of the Northern region of the country. It is widespread, highly and grossly underreported except when INGOs and local NGOs with support from Donor Agencies report it. Conversely, it is evidence that poor health facilities across Nige­ria contribute significantly to the worsening maternal and infant mortality rates. So what effort should we put in place for our preg­nant women to obtain high-quality health care? This now draws our attention to public spending on health care in Nigeria. For instance, what Nigeria spends on public health care that amounts to just 3.89% of its $495 billion GDP (Gross Domestic Prod­uct). A comparison with the likes of South Africa with 8.25% and 5.17% of Kenya shows we are far below. And the current Nigeria’s 206 million population has been pro­jected to double by 2050, according to the United Nations (UN). Therefore, it is about time, Ni­geria’s policymakers look critical­ly at the pathetic situation in the health sector that require huge funding. Although, opinions on modern healthcare argue that it is not expected to be free because it is expensive. We, however, believe the government has a responsibility to make it accessible and affordable to all. Though we know that Nigerians pay out-of-pocket to access health­care, even when it is officially free. To address the issue, first, the fed­eral, state and local government is to sustain a quality affordable ma­ternal and infant health care sys­tem. Secondly, they should embark on the right health education to remove all forms of socio-cultural and religious biases against seeking modern health care for pregnant women. This would help to elimi­nate rooted cultural and religious beliefs and barriers. We also see the need to improve women income to break household poverty and in­equality. Lastly, a collective stakeholders’ input is required, it must not be left for the government alone. We call on the media to play a critical role in ma­ternal and infant protection advocacy. For us, reducing maternal and infant mortality gaps as a core goal of SDG 3, poignantly is nothing short of saving pregnant women from avoidable death and for our infants to stay alive. Adefolarin A. Olamilekan, Polit­ical Economist and Development Researcher. Email: adefolarin77@ gmail.com. Tel: 08107407870; 08073814436