As Many Other Results Are Being Awaited Rt Hon. Chinedum Orji has won the primary election to contest the Ikwuano/North Umuahia/Umuahia South Federal Constituency general elections in 2023 under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party’s primary which was conducted at the Umuahia Township Stadium today, Sunday saw the Speaker, who is also the son of the Immediate past Governor of the state and presently Senator representing Abia Central Senatorial District, Theodore Orji, polling 86 votes to beat his closet rival, Chief Obi Aguocha, who got eight votes. -Advertisement- The chairman of Ikwuano/Umuahia North/Umuahia South Primary Election Committee, Chief Tony Nwaubani, who declared Orji the winner of the election, announced that other aspirants including Chidiebere Nwachukwu, scored 2 votes, Johnken Nwadinaobi got 2 votes, Ndubuisi John 1 vote, while Kelechi Onuzuruike had no vote. He disclosed that 99 delegates voted in the election, while the aspirants were six in number. In an interview with Journalists after the primary, Nwaubani described the exercise as free, fair and transparent. Meanwhile, the incumbent member of the House of Representatives for Aba North and Aba South Federal Constituency, Hon Chimaobi Ebisike was nominated to represent Aba North and Aba South once more in the Green Chamber under the platform of PDP. In a primary election conducted by the PDP’s Zonal Vice Chairman for Abia North, Elder Ama Abraham at the Aba Town Hall on Sunday, Ebisike polled total votes of 55. His opponent in the primary, Prof Ikechi Mgboji had earlier withdrawn from the race, making the contest a smooth sail for the eventual winner. Speaking shortly after the primary, Ama Abraham, described the exercise as free, fair, transparent and credible, adding that PDP enjoys wide acceptance because of its transparency in handling issues like this. POLL Ama Abraham who served as Chairman, PDP House of Representatives Electoral Committee for Aba North/Aba South Federal Constituency, urged the delegates and other party faithful to work together to ensure total victory for the party in the oncoming 2023 general elections. Responding, Ebisike thanked the delegates for nominating him to represent them again in the Green Chamber and assured them that he would not disappoint Aba residents.