The Federal Government has said it has begun to mount surveillance at the points of entry into the country to forestall the outbreak of monkeypox in Nigeria. Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, who revealed this at a media briefing in Abuja on Thursday, explained that the disease is not currently in Nigeria. Abubakar underscored the need for Nigeria to be more proactive in the prevention of the disease, adding that the outbreak of the disease if left unchecked, would likely affect the population of Nigerian farmers and significantly would lead to low agricultural production and productivity. -Advertisement- It would be recalled that the outbreak of monkeypox disease had been recently reported in Europe and the Americas. Since the 13th of May 2022, cases of monkeypox have been reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) from 12 member states that are not endemic to the monkeypox virus across WHO regions; Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom and the United States of America. He noted that epidemiological investigations so far revealed travel links to endemic areas as the cause of the outbreaks. He said: “Monkeypox is a zoonotic infectious disease which was first detected in 1958 in monkeys, rodents are now seen as possible means of transmission of the disease to man and animals. “Monkeypox is primarily a disease of non-human primates like Chimpanzees. POLL “It is a self-limiting disease with symptoms of bump rashes in humans which is usually mild and lasts between 2-4 weeks with a 3-6% fatality rate. “The disease is transmitted through close contact with an infected person or animal and material contaminated with the virus. “The main means of transmission is usually due to spillover from animals, man to man transmission is less common. The disease clinically resembles smallpox.” Abubakar listed some of the identified risk factors including hunting, illegal trade in wildlife, and handling of wildlife in wildlife markets. On the measures put in place by the Federal Government to prevent the outbreak of the disease in Nigeria, the minister said, “The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is working assiduously in collaboration with relevant sectors and stakeholders to intensify surveillance in the animal population and at the points of entry for wildlife as well as creating awareness among hunting communities and the general public on the prevention of the disease. He, therefore, advised the members of the public “to avoid contact with animals that could harbour the virus including animals that are sick or found dead where monkeypox occurs; avoid contact with any material such as bedding that has been in contact with a sick animal; practice good hand hygiene such as the washing of hands and the use of alcohol-based sanitisers after contact with infected animals or humans.” He assured the resolve of his Ministry to continue to collaborate with relevant sectors and stakeholders to promptly contain the disease in the event of an outbreak in the country.