A political pressure group on the Plateau Equity and Justice Forum made up of Elder statesmen has called on Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State to release all delegate forms allegedly hijacked for onward distribution to those who want to be delegates of the APC in the forthcoming party’s primaries in the state. The group equally demanded a level playing ground for all the aspirants warning that Plateau will never allow itself to be piloted by a cabal as it is trending on social media. Addressing newsmen in Jos at the weekend, Chairman of the forum, Barr. Omar Shittien and Chief Samu’ila Danko Makama the co-chairman of the equity group said it is disheartening to the forum and stakeholders to have a repeat of the injustice perpetrated by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during its 2014 primaries in the All Progressives Congress (APC). -Advertisement- The duo said it is sad that such an unfortunate history is about to repeat itself in the APC adding that in 2014, the Equity and Justice Forum did a press briefing cautioning the then Governor of the State to halt the plan of imposing an anointed gubernatorial aspirant during the governorship primaries in the State.” “Unfortunately, it is now evident that the present administration and beneficiary of the Plateau Project appears not to appreciate the efforts of the good people of Plateau in combating injustice and undemocratic processes”. They explained that instead, they are now seeing anti-people policy and undemocratic processes playing out within the party stressing that it will amount to total hypocrisy, biases and injustice to Plateau State if the Equity and Justice Forum keep mute and watch nonchalantly a repeat of the vice and undemocratic process it fought against in 2014 and 2015. “If we give our consent to this act about to be perpetrated within the APC in the State, we have become partakers of it and this contradicts our firm belief in the growth of democracy and dispensation of equity and justice to all. “In the light of this, we are lending our voices against the undemocratic act about to be executed by the present leadership of the ruling party in the state. POLL “What started as a rumour that there is an anointed candidate in the APC that must win the Governorship primary election at all cost is gradually becoming an unacceptable reality. They warned.