***Says Every Zone Will Get Best, Equal Representation IBADAN – The All Progressive Congress (APC) senatorial screening committee under the Chairmanship of former governor of Zamfara state, Mahmood Shinkafi has screened and cleared a leading senatorial hopeful for Oyo South Senatorial District, Olooye Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke for the party primary slated for May 24, 2022. As he pledged best and equal representation for all the nine (9) local governments that make up the senatorial district. -Advertisement- Other members of the screening committee were Chief Peter Ojie, Miss Busari Abisayo and Prince Abdullahi Yau while Chief Ejike Nwosu as the Secretary. The nine local governments are Ibadan North, Ibadan North East, Ibadan North West, Ibadan South East, Ibadan South West, Ibarapa Central, Ibarapa East, Ibarapa North and Ido Local Government Areas. Speaking after his screening, Adegoke, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), business turn around expert, said the first hurdle has been successfully conquered. According to him, the screening has cleared way for him to face other contenders, adding that with God on his side, his teeming supporters, and the implicit confidence the party leadership has in him, he was confident that the journey to the red chambers has been shortened. Adegoke, an alumni member of both OAU Ife and University of Cambridge Judge Business School Advance Leadership Program said despite the fact that Ibadan has six local governments and Ibarapa has three, both zones will get best and equal representation from him. POLL The Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland and a philanthropist per excellence, while appreciating the leadership of the APC in the state and the senatorial district , he maintained that with his vast experience in corporate world, international exposure and contact, he would facilitate infrastructural development into the Oyo south senatorial district and the state as whole. According to him, “All I ask for is unity of purpose for that is the weapon with which we will win at the general pools. “To my teeming supporters across the Oyo South Senatorial District and my well wishers across the state, I am emboldened by your show of love and commitment. All I can ask for now is for you not to relent in your support for me. “Your prayers, encouragement and suggestions will be needed most as I assure you that with this screening, victory is already beckoning and I pledged that all the local governments will get best and equal representation from me”. The senatorial hopeful insisted that the APC was prepared more than ever before to overwhelmingly take over Oyo state in 2023. He stated that the ongoing exodus from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC is enough evidence to the fact that the people of the state have embraced the APC because of the calibre of men presently the APC is parading as well as piloting the affairs of the party in the state.