*Defeats Deputy Governor, Others MAKURDI – Right Honourable Titus Uba, Speaker, Benue State House of Assembly (BNHA) has emerged as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. He emerged as the party’s candidate at the PDP primaries held at the Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi on Wednesday. -Advertisement- Uba who is expected to fly the flag of the PDP for the 2023 governorship elections during the general elections, polled 731 votes to beat four other contestants to emerge winner. The State Deputy Governor, Engr Benson Abounu came a distant second when he polled 81 votes, while the immediate past Commissioner for Education in the state, Prof Dennis Ityavyar polled two votes. On the other hand, the Chairman, House Committee on Local Government, Terkaa Ucha and the former Director General, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Paul Angya polled one vote each, whileBen Akarkar, polled zero vote. The Returning Officer, Bode Ojomo who announced the result, said out of 851 accredited delegates, Uba polled a total of 731 votes to defeat his closest opponent, the Deputy Governor, Benson Abounu who polled 81 votes. In his victory speech, Uba who appreciated delegates and the other aspirants for choosing him, added that he does not take their support for granted. POLL The speaker urged members of the party to join hands with him to ensure victory for the party during the 2023 general elections. He stated that, “My challenge now is how to move both the party and state forward but with the support of PDP members I will be able to achieve great things for the party and state.” Governor Samuel Ortom who congratulated the Speaker said “A man can receive nothing except he is given from above. This one too, God has done it and we return all glory to Him. “We will give him the support that he will need going forward not just as a candidate but the support to win election. “PDP will not allow any party to take over from us. We are ready to continue and that is why the primaries were conducted in a peaceful, free and fair atmosphere. “This victory is not Uba’s victory neither is it mine but victory for Benue and PDP,” Ortom said. The governor therefore called on all party members to keep faith with the party and work hard towards the victory of PDP come 2023.