The former Sole Administrator, Mosan Okunola LCDA, Barrister Rotimi Ogunwuyi has emerged as the flag bearer of All Progressive Congress, Alimosho Constituency 1, in the just concluded APC primary elections, held at Mosan- Okunola LCDA, Multipurpose Hall. The election which was free, fair and well observed by the electoral committees and the delegates witnessed a new dawn in political structure of Alimosho Constituencies. At the primary election for  Alimosho House of Assembly Constituency 1, out of the 35 delegates that were accredited, Jimoh Orelope Lukeman has 15 votes, Rotimi Ogunwuyi 19 votes, Abiodun 1 vote, Adebowale Adetunji zero, Ajisegiri Jamiu  zero, Oduola Ayotunde zero, Akande Sola John zero, Ajigbotafe Akinyemi zero, Akinwale Isreal  zero, Akinola Bashir zero, Dada Abiola Afolabi  zero, Dada Samson  zero, Sodiya Folunsola  zero and  Williams Bamidele ero. -Advertisement- Out of the thirty-five accredited voters, Rotimi Ogunwuyi polled 19 votes to emerge as APC’s flag bearer to contest for Alimosho Constituency I, seat at Lagos State House of Assembly’s next year election. In the summary of the result signed by the Chairman, Primary Election Committee, Hon. Isola Ogunsola and the Secretary, Primary Election Committee, Hon. Remi Bello, Rotimi Ogunwuyi was declared  as the winner with the highest vote count. While addressing the media after the election, Ogunwuyi thanked the people of Alimosho Constituency 1, for giving him the mandate to represent them at the Lagos State House of Assembly, in the forthcoming 2023 general election. He thereby called on everyone within the Constituency to ensure that they get their PVC as it’s their only power to exercise their civic right during the election. In his vote of assurance to his Constituents, he noted that he will do everything within his capacity to ensure that everyone enjoys dividend of democracy. POLL Consequently, at the end of the Primaries as announced by the electoral committees, in the presence of the delegates and aspirants agent, the following is the result for the House of Assembly and House of Representatives election: The elections process held at Alimosho was however refereed to as the most peaceful Constituency, which was devoid of violence and anarchy in the area. The followings were the Candidates representing Alimosho Constituency in the 2023 general elections; Lagos State House of Assembly, Constituency 1, Barrister Rotimi Ogunwuyi, for Constituency 2, Mr Kehinde Joseph, while  Hon Adele Ayuba represent Alimosho at Federal House of Representatives, Abuja.