ABEOKUTA – popular ‘area boy’, Sorunke Akinwale popularly called ‘Matasacker’ was Sunday night hacked to death in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, by yet to be identified, rival cult members. Akinwale was repeatedly shot dead in front of a popular Pub house in the State capital,  B-Side, at Quarry road very later at night. Mertesacker, from the available picture which has gone viral, was macheted both on his face and stomach in front of the bar. -Advertisement- It will be recalled that no fewer than 16 persons believed to be cult members were killed in the first week of April in three cities of Ogun State, following which about 22 suspected cultists were arrested by the Police. The April incident started with the killing of another Abeokuta-based suspected cultist popularly called Tommy who was believed to have belonged to the Eiye confraternity. Matasacker’s death might not be unconnected with the killing of Tommy as the murders happened in a very similar way. A witness who preferred not to be mentioned for security reasons told newsmen that the victim was sighted by his killers at the gate of the lounge receiving call before he was shot at repeatedly. He was said to have attended a naming ceremony at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library and was there till after 8 pm before he left for the Lounge. POLL The source said, “After the victim fell down, the killers went further to hack him before fleeing the scene.” The Source added that fun-seekers immediately took to their heels as soon as the first shot was fired, “that was the reason the assailants had a field day during their operation.” A gory picture of the victim’s remains which has gone viral was also sighted by Independent with machete cuts on both his head and body and a blood-stained white top. Another side of the report had it that the deceased was yet to enter the bar before he was shot at. He was said to be on a bike and was almost entering the bar when the gunmen suspected to have trailed him to the scene unleashed the terror on him. When our reporter visited the scene of the incident Monday morning, an attendant of the lounge, jokingly recounting their losses said, “We are in debt, nobody paid for what was bought yesterday night, they all took to their heels immediately after they started hearing gunshots.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeymi confirmed the incident. He added that the killing was in connection with a supremacy battle between rival groups, adding that the police has commenced an investigation aimed at tracing all those involved directly or indirectly with the incident. He said, “Yes, the information is true. We gathered that the deceased was on a bike coming to the Lounge, he has not entered the Lounge before he was attached. There is every likelihood that he was traced to the place before he was killed. “Preliminary investigation has shown that the incident is linked with a supremacy battle between two cult groups. But we have commenced investigation into the matter with the aim of tracing those who are directly and indirectly involved in the incident.” The PPRO further explained that the remains of the victim have been deposited at a mortuary for autopsy.