LAGOS – The Lagos State Police Command on Friday paraded the alleged killers of a sound engineer, David Sunday, who was murdered by commercial motorcyclists (Okada riders) on Thursday, May 12, 2022, in Lekki, Lagos State. The suspects were paraded at the Command’s headquar­ters in Ikeja, Lagos among oth­er suspects that were arrested across the state. While parading the suspects, the State’s Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi said a total number of six suspects have been arrested in connec­tion with the murder of David Sunday, who was killed by mo­torcyclists and burnt to death. -Advertisement- The arrested suspects includes Dahiru Ayuba ‘m’, Susan Moses ‘f’, Christopher Dauda ‘m’, Joseph Tella ‘m’, Chigozie Anthony ‘m’ and Sun­day Azi ‘m’. The Police boss further stated that the incident which occurred on 12th May, 2022 at about 0630hrs at Studio 24, Lekki, Lagos involved an Oka­da rider by name, Dahiru, who had a quarrel with his passen­gers, Frank Olatunji and Phil­ip Balogun over the bike fare. “In the heat of the argument, Frank Olatunji and Philip Balogun invited the deceased, David Sunday to mediate, only for Dahiru and his cohorts to violently attack him, killed him and set him ablaze. “Investigation is ongoing, suspects will be charged to court at its conclusion,” Alabi assured. CP Alabi also emphasised that the Command will not tol­erate any act of jungle justice in Lagos. “There is no jungle justice in our law and anybody found culpable will be dealt with according to the law. “I have charged all my Area Commanders and DPOs that no citizens will be allowed to take laws into their hands,” CP Alabi said. POLL In another development, one Joseph Ashiwobel was arrest­ed for unlawful possession of arms. He was reported to the Po­lice by Aji Augustine ‘m’ of Ibeju Lekki, Lagos who went to receive food items sent to him by his mother from Cross Riv­er State through a driver who mistakenly gave him a sack that was meant to be delivered to someone else. When he opened the sack, he discovered seven (7) locally made pistols. He rushed to the nearest police division and handover the arms. Upon receipt of the case, detectives embarked on diligent investi­gation that led to the arrest of one Joseph Ashiwobel. “On 10th May 2022, at about 0915hrs, based on available in­formation, a team of detectives of the Lagos State Command swung into action and arrest­ed some armed robbery sus­pects in their hideout situated around Ojo area of the State and recovered exhibits in their possession. The names of these suspects are Gambo Abdulhadi ‘m’ 28yrs, Eric Komi ‘m’ 19yrs, Yusuf Ibrahim ‘m’ 15yrs and Suleiman Alhassan ‘m’ 25yrs. Seven (7) locally made pistols, Sixty-Eight (68) live cartridges, cutlasses, ax, charms, four (4) mobile phones, tortoise and a fe­male bag were recovered from the suspects. The investigation is ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in connection with this case and recover more arms and ammunition. Also, one Sunday Tomoloju ‘m’ was arrested as the principal suspect in the murder of Ayo Dada and two others who were cult members killed by some suspected rival cult members at Ketu, Mile 12, Lagos. “On 21st February 2022, one Sunday Tomoloju and other members of his cult group went on a re­prisal mission to avenge their late members and killed one Adesegun Adesanya ‘m’ a.k.a. Ologodudu. Upon receipt of this information, detectives tracked down the principal suspect Sun­day Tomoloju ‘m’ in his remote stronghold where he was appre­hended. During investigation, the suspect made a confessional statement to the commission of the said crime. Investigation is still ongoing to apprehend other fleeing suspects in a bid to recov­er their operational weapons. Meanwhile, the Commis­sioner of Police Lagos State Command has assured Lago­sians that the security of live and property of residents of Lagos State will continue to be at the top of his policing vision for Lagos State.