MINNA – Chairman of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Niger State, Alhaji Haliru Jikantoro, has come under severe criticism for publicly declaring his support for the senatorial ambition of the incumbent Governor, Abubarkar Sani Bello. Haliru Jikantoro’s description of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello as ‘the only candidate’ recognized for the Niger-North Senatorial district attracted the ire of a section of the APC, including other contestants for the senatorial seat on the same platform. The video in circulation has the state APC chairman praising Governor Abubarkar Sani Bello, describing him as his only known candidate for the Niger-North Senatorial seat ahead of the 2023 general elections. Jikantoro who spoke in Hausa language when he received a group supporting the Governor whose nick name is, Lolo had said, “I can confidently beat my chest and go against anyone that wants to stand in Lolo’s way”. He said, “Ordinarily, I shouldn’t have come out openly to endorse Governor Bello, but I am saying I support Lolo and I asked that the world be informed of my decision. I am not only in support, but I am at the forefront”. But in sharp reactions, some party members who spoke on the Governor’s political meanderings and clandestine moves towards actualising his 2023 senatorial ambition have vowed to frustrate the political romance between the two against other contestants and party members generally in the state. The APC members wondered if Jikantoro in real sense of it recognizes the fact that as state party chairman he is expected to provide a level playing ground for all by remaining neutral or better, keep his preferred candidates for all the elective positions at all levels to himself. Supporters to aspirants for the one ‘C’ senatorial seat under the APC platform said they were disappointed with Jikantoro as they had expected him to remain neutral and provide level playing ground for all the contestants during party primaries. They accused the APC chairman in Niger state of already biased and feared possible imposition of Governor Sani Bello who is desperately working hard to unseat the incumbent occupant of the seat, Senator Aliyu Adullahi Sabi. Recall that Governor Bello indicated interest in contesting for the Niger-East Senatorial seat against the incumbent Senator Aliyu Abdullahi Sabi, the same day the former Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 election, Umar Nasko who for long had indicated his intentions for the seat withdrew. This is also coming less than a week leaders of the 87 Wards that made up the eight Local Government Areas in the zone endorsed Senator Sabi for a third term after passing a vote of confidence in him for representing the zone well in the 8th and 9th National Assembly.