Natives of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have expressed faith in the Minister of the FCT, Malam Mohammad Musa Bello’s leadership style in dealing with the issue of the suspension of the swearing-in of new council chairmen in Abuja. Comrade Yunusa Ahmadul Yusuf, Chief Advocate of Abuja Grassroots Advocacy Projects (AGAP), stated this in a press conference on Monday, emphasizing the importance of residents and natives continuing to trust and have faith in the current administration led by the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory in resolving the current political challenges on the ground. The natives praised the FCT minister for being a law-abiding leader who works tirelessly for the good of residents of the territory, irrespective of party or religious affiliation and appealed to residents to continue to support the administration. -Advertisement- According to the natives, during the heat of the suspension of the swearing-in of the chairmen, they consulted widely with their lawyers and they educated them on how constrained the minister is as a law-abiding citizen of Nigeria. “So, we want to express our confidence in him because we are aware that the Minister was bold enough to appeal the judgment, such action shows the quality of a leader that means well for his people and it is worthy of commendations. “We repose our confidence in him and we will continue to do that. We want to say that as soon as there is a judgment on stale of execution, the minister’s name would be written in gold by swearing in the new chairmen of the councils. “We cannot overlook the fact that the minister is doing everything possible to improve the living standard of residents of the FCT. We commend him for the tremendous projects he has been executing and we advise that he should not allow desperate politicians to mislead him against the people,” he said. Yusuf further said that so far so good, what the minister has done in the FCT is commendable and that the people of FCT have seen it and they have come out to testify. POLL “I must say that we have restored calmness in the FCT. We have spoken to the youths to have confidence in the minister, and we know the kind of leader we have. We have confidence that he will never fail us, he will stand by the people he is governing any time and any day. “For the avoidance of doubt, we also want to use this opportunity to tell residents of Abuja that from the information we have gotten, President Muhammad Buhari has not given any directive and has not influenced any instruction with respect to what is happening in the FCT, as regards to the swearing of the new chairmen. “We are in touch with the minister and he has told us that by the grace of God the present issue will be settled, that he has appealed the judgment, besides other appeals that he has been doing. So, we repose our confidence in him and we will continue to do that,” he said.