A group, Citizens Action for Good Governance(CAGG) has decried the skyrocketing exchange of naira, which has made many businesses across the country remain in limbo. Consequently, the group has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele. This was contained in a statement signed by the National Coordinator of CAGG, Nazir Galandanchi. -Advertisement- Galandanchi explained that the Nigerian economy is currently in a precarious state, as Emefiele who is superintendent over the apex bank has failed the country. He alleged that the recent dabbling of Emefiele into the murky waters of politics has worsened the nation’s economy while acknowledging that Emefiele has the constitutional right to vie for an elective position if had first resigned as CBN Governor. According to Galadanchi, “If, Emefiele, as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, had formally resigned from his exalted office, nobody will question his intention or otherwise, as it is his fundamental and constitutional right to seek to contest for any political position in the land. “However, his expression of interest to vie for the President of Nigeria, as a sitting public officer, has made people lose confidence in the nation’s banking industry under his leadership. “This is moreso reinforced by the statement credited to the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) Professor Mahmud Yakubu, to the fact that the nation’s electoral body will no longer keep its sensitive and non-sensitive materials in the custody of the CBN, since Mr Godwin Emefiele, is now partisan and an interested party. POLL “So, the need to protect our electoral integrity is most pertinent.” Galadanchi further lamented that the lack of concentration by the CBN Governor has worsened the exchange rate of the Naira to foreign currencies. He pointed out that due to Emefiele’spolitical misadventure and clear partisanship, the wave of foreign exchange racketeering under his supervision have increased, as Naira currently exchanges for N605 per US dollar in the parallel market. “All these are happening while he is still in office and his action has affected the functionality of the nation’s economy. “This press statement makes a clarion call to President Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately remove him from office. This move will help to restore public confidence as well as those of foreign investors.” Speaking on the sudden move by Emefiele to join the APC presidential race, the group said, “In what initially sounded like a fairy-tale or rumour mill, Nigerians, were surprised about media reports, which made the rounds, regarding the sudden expression of partisan political interests by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, to contest the February 26th, 2023 Presidential & General Elections.“As days went by, what came up as mere rumour, now began to acquire the solid posture of a cogent and verifiable political reality, even as the said Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, had gone far in the procurement of vehicles, branded by his foot-soldiers and campaign brand managers, and distributed same to specific beneficiaries. The group also alleged that Emefiele oiled his campaign machinery and finally confirmed his presidential ambition through the purchase of the APC Presidential form at the cost of N100 million through his proxy. “Rather in what looked like a weak display of rural sense or native intelligence, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, alleged that a group of Nigerian farmers purchased the form for him,” the group said.