Who is the most credible, com­petent hand among the legion of presidential aspirants on the All Progressives Congress (APC) platform? This is the question on the lips of many Nigerians as about 29 members of the APC are said to have picked the expression and nomina­tion forms of the ruling party for the presidential primary slated for May 31, 2022. All eyes are also on the par­ty in relation to zoning. This is because the zoning of the presidency under a principle of rotation between North and South has been the most contentious issue in the Nige­rian political space since the return of democracy in 1999. And this has always pitted the South against the North. As 2023 beckons, nothing ap­pears to have changed in this regard. -Advertisement- Of course, the zoning pol­icy predated the current 4th Republic. And, it has never ceased being an important is­sue in any election cycle since the 2nd Republic when it first became a strong political lead­ership recruitment mantra. As we get into gear for the 2023 elections after Pres­ident Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner, has completed two terms, it again appears that in the bid to force the zoning arrangement to be respected, southern political players are coming out force­fully to stake a strong claim for the post. As at the last count, the South accounts for roughly 80percent of APC Presidential aspirants that have declared intention to contest the post and continue APC’s stay in power at the centre. The overarching argu­ment adduced is that electing a northern candidate in 2023 brings the prospect of the re­gion holding power for an un­broken 16 years, at least. That is exactly the type of fear-in­ducing scenario that the zon­ing arrangement is to erase. It could, therefore, be that most of the Southern aspi­rants have resolved to mas­sively buy the party’s nom­ination form and launched their campaigns to force the hands of the party on the is­sue. It would look impolitic and inelegant if APC should give its ticket to one of the few Northern aspirants in the field while neglecting the multitude of Southern con­testants who, among them, parade all the qualities re­quired to occupy the post. However, where the par­ty may face a headache is in the fact that majority of the Southern aspirants have their political roots in the Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) Politi­cal family, led by the founder and leader of the group, Bola Tinubu himself. POLL Given that the BAT polit­ical family has got the vice presidency since 2015, the need to micro-manage the process of picking a southern candidate in a way that will assuage the fear of those who see the Asiwaju influence looming on the presidency and, by extension, sweeping all over Nigeria if he or any of his political proxies get the plum job, cannot be discoun­tenanced. Tinubu and his political offshoots have been brand­ed, on the evidence of past actions, as likely to continue their well-known autocratic style of governance, especial­ly the tendency to emasculate both the executive and legisla­tive branches of government and ride roughshod over the people. For a country walking the thin line of insecurity, disunity and growing citi­zen discontent, to be saddled with such slave masters at this point in time is a recipe for disaster. The whole nation and, indeed all lovers of Nigeria, agree that National Unity, more than any other factor, would rank highly among the imperatives the country can­not afford to toy with post-2023 election. Given the foregoing, which of the Southern aspi­rants currently angling for the job is the least catastrophic option for APC and Nigeria? Which of them can inspire na­tional inter-regional trust, gal­vanise inclusiveness and nav­igate the potential time bomb of ethnic and regional distrust threatening to ambush the fu­ture of the country? Of all the Southern aspi­rants, the former governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun provides an intriguing sce­nario. The only South West aspirant that is not a creation of the Tinubu School of Poli­tics, Senator Amosun has an interesting political trajecto­ry that has established him among key political interests in the North and the South, long before the ascendancy of APC in 2015. In 2003, he was elected a Senator on the plat­form of the All Nigeria Peo­ple’s Party (ANPP), at a time when the South West was still trapped in its regional politics of exclusiveness. On this ev­idence alone, one could say that of all the South West APC contestants on the field today, Amosun could be described as the first to embrace true Ni­gerianness that was devoid of opportunistic streak. A vastly experienced po­litical maestro with ample experience in deft but un­der-the-table management of temperamental political issues, Amosun is also a Chartered accountant, with vast professional experience and network as well as a thriv­ing accounting practice firm. He, therefore, represents an important bridge between the business and political worlds. As an acclaimed tal­ent groomer and discoverer, his liberal political leaning has facilitated the emergence of some brilliant government appointees at both state and federal levels from under his wings. His role in 2015 in breaking the logjam that threatened the emergence of the current Vice president has been well exposed and is uncontrovert­ed by any of the dramatis per­sona. Ditto how he facilitated the emergence of a former minister of finance and an­other minister currently in office. Amosun is today, one of South West’s astute politi­cal groundbreakers with wide and strong network across the Northern part of the country. Yet, even as a power broker of immense stature, he has man­aged to remain largely behind the scene. With his pedigree, Ibikun­le Amosun seems to be the only one among the aspir­ing options that presents the only near-perfect profile of a change agent that possesses the persona, contacts, net­work, vision, level-headed­ness, discipline and charisma that could help Nigeria navi­gate the post Buhari challeng­es that stare the country in the face. He is, comparatively, the best bet the South can pres­ent to assure the trust and deep respect of the North, calm nerves and engender na­tional reconciliation quickly. However, the question is, will APC see the danger ahead and present the right man for the task? May 31, 2022, is almost here. Abraham is a Public Affairs Commentator based in Abeokuta, Ogun State.