Following the clamour by some notable youth groups across the country for Hon Shina Peller to join the 2023 presidential race, over one million Nigerian youths are set to raise the fund needed for the purchase of the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination and expression of interest forms for the lawmaker. This was contained in a press statement released by the National President of the Nigerian Youth League, Comrade Mustapha Hadi, where he hinted that teeming members of various youth groups across the country have resolved to contribute a minimum of Two thousand naira each to support Hon Peller’s presidential bid. Also, Comrade Hadi added that a bank account has purposely been opened for the fundraising, while he expressed confidence that members of the youth groups will be able to raise a hundred million naira (N100,000000) by contributing a minimum of Two thousand naira each. -Advertisement- He also assured that there will be transparency and accountability, as they will be updating members of the public with the transaction details on a daily basis. It would be recalled that a few days ago, different youth groups such as Nigerian Youth League, Nigerian Youths in Politics, Nigeria Youth Alternative Council (NYAC), Coalition of Concerned Youth Organizations in the North Central, Northern Youths Assembly of Nigeria and others had taken responsibility for the Shina Peller for President posters sighted at different strategic locations and major towns across the six geo-political zones in the country. Whilst giving reasons for settling for Hon Peller as their preferred candidate, they had argued that the lawmaker represents the change that the youth seek, and that he is the most vibrant young politician who is always advocating for the youth. In addition, they argued that in most developed countries, youths are taking over the mantle of leadership. “Nigeria deserves a young, energetic, innovative, destabilized and dynamic leader who is successful in both Public and Private life to lead Nigeria, and Shina Peller perfectly fits into this description. “Hon Peller is a youth-driven person who has continously contributed immensely to the growth and development of Nigerian youths; it is on record that through the Lead Generation Initiative (LGI), the lawmaker has trained thousands of young Nigerians across the country on leadership, governance, strategic communications, active citizenship, political mobilization and organizing.” POLL He added that LGI alone has membership strength of millions of youths across the country. In the same vein, Hadi explained that all the youth groups rallying around Honourable Peller understand clearly the vital roles of traditional institution in nation-building, and that Honourable Peller, being the Ayedero of Yorubaland (Promoter of Peace), represents traditional institution stressing that the lawmaker is the kind of President Nigeria needs now. Furthermore, the groups have continously argued that Honourable Peller, being the most influential politician in the entertainment industry, represents the interest of the industry which plays an important role in diversifying the economy, giving oppurtunity to young Nigerians to showcase their creativity. “The entertainment industry is also an important factor in determining who our leaders are, the Convener of Northern Youths Assembly of Nigeria, Rt. Hon. Ukkasha Hamza Rahama argued”. In his reaction, Hon Shina Peller explained that his initial intention was to contest for Oyo North Senatorial District seat, but that sometimes, great leaders make difficult decisions and sacrifices to enhance the lives of their followers. He added that this explains why he aligns himself with the youth clamouring for him to run for President. “Below is the account to pay into, as we enjoin all well-meaning Nigerians, home and abroad, particularly the youth, to join us in this struggle for a better Nigeria where the youth and women are given the opportunity to lead without fear of victimisation and intimidation by political godfathers