The incumbent Governor AbdulRahaman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State has emerged the winner of the state primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). At the end of the exercise which was held in Ilorin on Thursday, the elated governor expressed appreciation to the delegates and the people of the state for the honour accorded him to serve the state once again. According to him, the trajectory of Kwara State has changed between 2019 and now; adding that his administration in the ongoing first term has registered a bold presence in the comity of decent and respected states. -Advertisement- “We have positive strides and indices in education, health, access to water, improved youths engagement, gender mainstreaming, support for farmers and the vulnerable, and rural development to show for our mandate.”; he recounted. AbdulRazaq’s Full Speech:My profound gratitude goes to all of the distinguished delegates, and to the people of Kwara State for the honour to serve again. I also thank all our traditional rulers, thought leaders, party stalwarts and leaders across Kwara State. I do not take your support for granted. Between 2019 and now, the trajectory of Kwara State has changed. We have registered a bold presence in the comity of decent and respected states. We have positive strides and indices in education, health, access to water, improved youth engagement, gender mainstreaming, support for farmers and the vulnerable, and rural development to show for our mandate. Today, no part of Kwara State is left without government presence.Our politics has also evolved. The destiny of Kwarans is no longer tied to any particular person. That is the bold message from our primaries. Are we perfect? No, we are not. What is not debatable is the magnitude of progress that Kwara has made over the last three years. We can only beat our own records of achievements. So, we will campaign on our records of improving the lots of our people and reasserting the leadership position of Kwara State. We will campaign on our record of courageously opening up the democratic space for all. We will campaign on our records of courageously opening up our books for public assessments in our strong belief that perfection belongs to God alone. In doing so, we are steadily improving the old system and achieving more efficiency. POLL The choice before the people of Kwara State is clear. 2023 is the year to make it clear to the doubting Thomases that the revolution of 2019 was not a fluke. It is the year to reaffirm our decision to reclaim our dignity and have a state that serves everyone equitably. We must therefore keep what is left of our patrimony, and by all democratic means avoid a relapse to the years of the locust. Once again, I thank all the delegates, and party elders for the confidence reposed in me. I assure everyone that the interest of our people will continue to be our priority.