LAGOS – Bishop Dr Theophilus Taiwo Ajose, the Director, Directorate of Politics and Governance (DPG) of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Lagos State chapter, has reacted to the call for the establishment of an Interim Government and the Government of National Unity by President Muhammadu Buhari before the 2023 general elections by some eminent Nigerians, saying that such a government is alien to the nation’s constitution. It would be recalled that Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) recently called on President Muhammadu Buhari to set up an Interim Government, while Chief Ayo Adebanjo, the Afenifere leader, also called on the president to set up a Government of National Unity to resolve all the thorny issues in the nation before the 2023 general elections. Such issues, according to them, included insecurity in parts of the country, killings and terrorism as well as the issue of peace and unity among the different people and regions in Nigeria. -Advertisement- Speaking with Sunday INDEPENDENT in Lagos at the weekend, Bishop Ajose, the Special Adviser (General Duties) to the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman in Lagos and State Secretary, CPFN/PFN Block, said that in as much as he had very high regard of Chief Afe Babalola and Chief Ayo Adebanjo, and respects their opinions, there is no machinery or provisions for the setting up of such government in the nation’s constitution. Ajose, President, Organisation of Christians for Democracy (OCD), stated: “The call for Interim Government is ill advised, undemocratic and unconstitutional. “It is alien to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. There is no machinery or provision for the setting up of such in our constitution. This can only happen under a Military government. And we are not under the Military. “What should be the process of setting up such a government? What is the constitutional framework? What they will be doing is committing an illegality. “Will such a government be set up through the Independent National Electoral C omission (INEC)? There is nothing on the ground to warrant that for now.” POLL On the recent call by the Kaduna State Chairman, Rev. Joseph Hayab, that the Federal Government should do something to stop the killings and abductions of people for ransom in the state, Ajose said he aligned himself with the call. According to him, the state of insecurity in Nigeria had become worrisome and should be of concern to all Nigerians. Bishop Ajose stressed: “CAN in Kaduna State is not alone in voicing out this concern. Different religions, both Christians, Muslims and Traditionalists have been crying out in this regard. “So, as many people as possible can voice out their concern and proffer solutions to this menace, the better and easier for the government to rise up to the challenge. “We at the PFN are in alliance with the Kaduna CAN for the call. We support it. We have nothing against it.”