Right-back Diogo Dalot has admitted that he is relishing working with Erik ten Hag at Manchester United, insisting it promises to be a “fantastic opportunity.” Ten Hag, currently in charge of Ajax, was installed as United’s next permanent manager just over a fortnight ago. He will take charge ahead of the start of next season and will be tasked with overseeing a summer of transition at Old Trafford. The Dutchman, who will follow in the footsteps of fellow countryman Louis van Gaal in occupying the Old Trafford managerial hot-seat, has enjoyed no shortage of success during his time at Ajax since taking charge in December 2017. He has guided them to two Eredivisie titles and is now on the cusp of a third. -Advertisement- His success at Ajax has been built on playing free-flowing, entertaining football, all whilst everyone follows a united philosophy. Therefore, it is little surprise that Dalot is looking forward to learning from the 52-year-old next season. “It’s going to be a fantastic opportunity to work with such a great manager,” Dalot told United’s club website. “His work at Ajax is outstanding. “I think everybody falls in love with the attractive football he has played with that Ajax team. I’m sure we are going to be very happy to have him here and to start to work with him. “Hopefully, like I said, we can finish the [next] season fighting for trophies and being there with hunger and competing with the other teams. But we are going step by step, we’re going to start well and hopefully, next season, can do better than this one.” Ahead of Ten Hag experiencing his first taste of Premier League football, he and United will visit Thailand and Australia for pre-season friendlies against Aston Villa, Crystal Palace, Liverpool and Melbourne Victory. For Dalot, it will provide everyone with the opportunity to get to know one another that little bit better. POLL “Not just because it’s a tour, it’s just a good opportunity for everybody,” Dalot added. “A new start, a new chapter, a new era. “I think everyone will be excited. I’m sure the manager is excited to work with us as well. “We need to build everyone as a team, as a group, as a club, and, hopefully, next season, we can be solid and start the season well with a very good pre-season.”