When most manufacturers celebrate their anniversaries, it’s usually with some special-edition models with only some badging, a special paint colour, and maybe something to jazz up the interior slightly. While the Mercedes-AMG “Edition 55”—a package that celebrates 55 years of AMG—on the 2022 A35 and the CLA35 loosely follow that format, these compact anniversary Mercedes cars also get wind tunnel-tuned aerodynamic parts to make this celebratory trim as functional as it is stylish. The Flashy Bits -Advertisement- While they’re a celebration of AMG, the CLA35 and A35 still need some pizazz to make them stand out from “tuner” versions you see on the streets. The AMG crest on both features a foiled design reminiscent of its classic designs in years past, while the fuel filler cap is done in silver chrome with the AMG logo raised up on its handle. The silver stripe down the lower sides of the cars feature a portion of the AMG crest while trim elements like the outer air intake louvers, side sill trim, window line strip, and mirror housings are all finished in high-gloss black as part of the included AMG Night Package and Night Package II appearance packs. Inside, the sill panels feature a silver finish with the AMG logo in red, which matches the inserts on the door cards and seats. Brushed aluminum and black grace the rest of the interior, including the “Edition 55” steering wheel that uses Dinamica microfiber material as its cover with black stitching and the 12 o’clock mark is finished in a demur black, kind of defeating the high-visibility purpose of the mark in a performance setting. POLL To keep the car looking as good as it did when you bought it while keeping it in your garage, Mercedes is including a tear-resistant indoor car cover in black with a silver-colored AMG logo at around the height of the upper windshield edge. The outer fabric is also breathable while the inner fabric is made of an antistatic flannel. The Performing Parts What makes the “Edition 55” package more interesting on both compacts are its aerodynamic pieces. These parts have been wind tunnel tested and work to improve the driving dynamics of the A35 and CLA35. The front apron has a much larger front splitter with additional canards—what Mercedes calls “flics”—for better front end aero performance. The fixed rear wing balances out the front additional downforce along with the addition of side spoiler lips on the rear apron air outlets and the “Blade” diffuser. All of those aero bits are finished in high-gloss black to contrast from the body’s digital white metallic, but will blend in with the cosmos black metallic—the other color offered for the “Edition 55” package. The exterior is rounded off, no pun intended, by a set of 19-inch AMG alloy wheels in matte titanium gray paint with a high-sheen rim flange finish. Starting now and until November of 2022, CLA35 and A 5 owners can add the “Edition 55” package to their order for an additional cost of about $13,675. Well, at least for Europe.