OWERRI  – Reprieve has eventually come the way of the embattled for­mer General Manager of the Owerri Capital Development Authority (OCDA), Chima Anozie, as the Justice Oputa High Court, Owerri presid­ed over by Justice S.I Opara on Tuesday 17th May 2022, quashed the aspect of the Government White Paper by the “Commission of Inquiry on Lands and Other Related Matters” which among oth­er things, barred him from holding any public office for corrupt practices. Anozie, a barrister and indigene of Orji Uratta in the Owerri North council area had in a writ of sum­mon as contained in suit No HOW/243/2021 approached the Court seeking a declara­tion of null and void and of no effect, the aspect of the White Paper in question which in­dicted him and equally barred him from holding public office. Joined in the suit were the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Imo State government and Hon Justice Ukwuoma Du­ruohaigwe retd. -Advertisement- Prior to his ruling which lasted for almost one hour, Justice S.I Opara has critical­ly reflected on the terms of reference of the Commission and submissions of the plain­tiff where he (Anozie) stated inter alia, that he failed to ap­pear before the Commission of Inquiry set up the Imo State Government which among other things accused him of distorting the original Ower­ri Master Plan, destruction of many buildings in some parts of the Owerri Capital City, il­legal issuance of approval of building plans, aiding and abetting former governor Rochas Okorocha over illegal acquisition and appropriation of public property and failure to prosecute violators of gov­ernment established laws. As a General Manager of the OCDA, Chima, a lawyer was also accused by the Com­mission of failure to use pow­ers of the institution (OCDA) to curtail such illegality by not adhering to the original Ower­ri Master Plan, arbitrary ap­proval and issuance of build­ing permits and connivance in the acquisition of the premis­es of the Imo Broadcasting Corporation (IBC) at Orji. Chima, who vehemently denied all the allegations of the Commission against him insisted that he was not giv­en a fair hearing to defend himself as according to him no invitation was extended to him to do so. He subsequently ap­proached the court seeking justice. Justice S.I Opara, in his ruling, argued that the defen­dants did not act in good faith and that it is only a Court of law that has the power to dis­qualify anybody from stand­ing for an election. POLL He also observed a contra­diction and confusion in the writ of summon served the plaintiff, stating that the find­ing of the Court on the Writ of Summon was neither cred­ible, cogent nor convincing. He further affirmed that the defendants denied the plaintiff of his right of fair hearing. Reacting to the judgement, lead counsel to the plaintiff, Okorie Chimezie Kingsley, a Professor of law described it as a victory of light over darkness.