The build-up to the 2023 general elections has been dramatic and is perhaps the first time in Nigeria’s history that a large number of politicians are vying for the position of presidency in different parties despite the huge fees paid for forms. Amongst the fears and doubts of whether the election will hold as a result of the current security challenges, INEC and the Police have assured that the election won’t only be violence-free, but free and fair. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, TITILOPE JOSEPH and BARNABAS MANYAM All appears set for the presidential pri­mary elections of Nigeria’s two major parties All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) billed for Abuja between May 28 and 30 following the screening of aspirants. This is also coming after the payment of N41million and N100 million for the expression of interest and nomination forms of both political parties. Aspirants screened by PDP include Ex-Vice President, Abubakar Atiku; two ex-Presidents of the Senate, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, and Any­im Pius Anyim; Chairman of the PDP Gover­nors Forum and current Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; his Bauchi State counterpart, Senator Bala Mohammed and businessman, Mo­hammed Hayatu-Deen. -Advertisement- Others are Governors Nyesom Wike, Emman­uel Udom, of Rivers and the Akwa Ibom States respectively; former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; his Ekiti State counterpart, Ayodele Fayose; Chief Sam Ohuabunwa; Dele Momodu; Olivia Tarela, who is the only female among them; Charles Okwudili, Chikwendu Kalu; and Cosmos Ndukwe. At the end of the screening exercise, the Sen­ator David Mark-led PDP Presidential Screening Committee gave the nod to 15 of the 17 to compete for the 3,700 delegates’ votes for the sole ticket. Mark had announced that two of the 17 who did not make the mark as such were confirmed dis­qualified to contest. The APC on its part began the screening of the aspirants to all the other offices in Abuja on Satur­day but announced May 23 for the 25 presidential hopefuls. The aspirants, who will slug it out for the APC flag at the two-day national convention at the end of May, if they impress at the screening and do not step down from the race, are a national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; former Min­ister of Niger Delta Development, Godswill Akpa­bio; former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu; former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha and former Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun. Others are Pastor Tunde Bakare; Cross Riv­er State Governor, Ben Ayade; his Ebonyi State counterpart, Dave Umahi; Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi; Minister of State, Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Kogi and Jigawa State Governors, Ya­haya Bello and Mohammed Badaru, and former Zamfara State governor, Ahmed Yerima. Further on the list are Senator Ajayi Bor­roffice; the only female aspirant, Pastor Uju Ohnenye, Mr. Nicholas Nwagbo; former Speak­er of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Ban­kole; Senate President Ahmad Lawan; AfBD Managing Director, Akinwumi Adesina, former Minister of Information, Ikeobasi Mokelu and businessman Tein Jack-Rich. POLL There have been a lot of myths, doubts and fears surrounding the 2023 general elections with a cleric from one of the largest churches in Nigeria recently saying that God has not told him if the next election will hold. Another factor creating doubts in the minds of the people is the current security challenges. There has also been the persistent question of whether the Indepen­dent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies are really prepared for the 2023 polls. Other stakeholders fear that if at all the election holds, it may be ‘bloody’ judging by the number of desperate politicians who have bought nomination forms to become Nigeria’s president, and how ready is the Police to super­vise a violent free election? Professor Mahmood Yakubu, Chairman of INEC, while charging the nation’s security agencies to up the ante in securing the country for the 2023 general elections and other off-cycle elections slated for June and July 2022, said the security agencies can still do something to secure the country for the polls, pointing out that the general security situation across the country is a source of concern. Addressing the security agencies under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Consultative Meeting on Election Security (ICCES) at its 2nd quarterly Consultative meeting with INEC, Prof Yakubu, who stated that the commission was ready for the election underscored the need for the agencies to expedite action on fighting insecurity as the commission will not alter the time timetable of the 2023 election. “The general security situation in the country and its impact on the electoral process is a source of concern to the Commission. However, we are confident that with nine months to the 2023 Gen­eral Election, there is enough time to respond to the security challenges and secure the nation for elections to take place nationwide. The timetable for the election has also been released.” INEC further promised tough times for elec­tion disrupters like ballot box snatchers. The Res­ident Electoral Commissioner in Adamawa State Kassim Gaidam, on Friday, said the commission had concluded plans with security agents to disappoint all those who intend to cause crisis during and after elections to think of something else because they will be death seriously. After the #EndSARS saga that led to the kill­ing of several officers and the destruction of many police stations, it appears Nigeria Police has been more strategic in the dispensation of its services, even especially for the election. Respond­ing to the Saturday INDEPENDENT inquiries during the week, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba said the success of the Anambra Gubernatorial elections which many people believed will not hold shows that the Police are ready for the election. The IGP said the Anambra election showed that “with a workable police force, no individual or groups of persons can usurp the rule of law. This is why despite the seemingly insurmount­able challenges, the IGP strategically deployed officers to Anambra and the elections, adjudged to be one of the freest and fairest in the nation’s history, were held successfully.” Already, Baba said the Police have set the wheels turning towards the successful conduct of credible, free, and fair elections in 2023 with major operational and strategic training ongoing for all police personnel in line with the new Electoral Act to acquaint officers with the expectations of the law. Similarly, the Police have convened Conference and Retreat for Senior Police Officers scheduled to hold in October 2022, as part of final preparations for the 2023 General Elections. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO) of the Nigeria Police Force, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, told Saturday INDEPENDENT, that the Force has put in place stringent measures to ensure the officers put in their best without fear or favour. “The Electoral Act provides for offenses and their penalties. The Inspector-General of Police has over time emphasised the dedication of the Force under his leadership to upholding the te­nets of the law. In line with this, any Police Officer caught or reported to have violated the extant laws guiding the conduct of elections, the code of conduct, ethics, or standard procedures of the police would be debriefed and necessary action in accordance with the law will be taken.” Baba said “Nigeria Police Force has a ger­mane partnership with the Independent Na­tional Electoral Commission (INEC). The Force has a catchment of Police Officers seconded to the INEC and headed by a Commissioner of Po­lice; this shows how important we take election matters. “As we gradually countdown to the elections, many joint training and conferences are being held, and more will be held between the INEC, the Police, other security agencies and stakeholders on electioneering generally, particularly as there is a new Electoral Act, which requires ample sen­sitisation of all persons involved on their roles and responsibilities. “We are convinced that the leadership of INEC is keen on upholding the sanctity of the Commission vis-à-vis respect for the rule of law, and act according to the provisions of the Elec­toral Act 2022, as well as being on the same page with the Police and other stakeholders to make the job easier. “The Police are unrelenting in their task to ensure the peace, security and safety of all per­sons and properties within the Nigerian territory. Election periods not being an exception, the IGP has ensured and will continue to ensure adequate and strategic deployment of police operational assets for peaceful, free, fair and credible elec­tions. “Based on our threat analysis towards the gen­eral elections, we have identified and mapped out possible areas of security challenges, areas that might be prone to attacks and necessary proac­tive measures have been emplaced to nip the likely security and electioneering challenges in the bud. These proactive measures are scientific and ICT-based and we are optimistic that they will pay off at the appropriate time. “Emphatically, all persons who have inten­tions to carry out acts that could hamper the security of the nation are strictly warned to de­sist from such as the police would not fail to take adequate measures within the ambit of the law. The Police would equally be collaborating with other security agencies to ensure a safe space for all and sundry before, during, and after the general elections,” the office of the Police IG said. Meanwhile, the Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has urged President Muham­madu Buhari to immediately sign the one item amendment to the Electoral Act 2022, in order to avert a possible political crisis. The House had momentarily called off its ongoing break to pass the amendment, which bothers on elected politi­cal office holders initially restrained from partic­ipating as delegates in their respective political parties’ primary elections, and same transmitted by the National Assembly to the President for assent since last week. In a call to the President through a statement by Minority Leader of the House of Representa­tives, Ndudi Elumelu, on Thursday, the Caucus said it noted “with grave concern that Mr. Presi­dent’s delay in signing the single amendment to Section 84 (8) to the Electoral Act 2022 has thrown the nation into serious confusion and constitutes a huge threat to our democracy and the smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections. “As representatives of the people, the Minori­ty Caucus urges Mr. President to avert an immi­nent political crisis which has the capacity of ex­acerbating the security situation in the country by immediately signing the Amendment to the Electoral Act 2022 and leave a legacy of a credible electoral process to the nation,” they said.