IBADAN – The Presiding Officers on Sunday night refused to announce the winner of the Oyo South Senatorial primary in the presence of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials and other observers on Sunday night has refused to due to the 20.5 percent over voting. The primary election which was earlier scheduled for Saturday was shifted to Sunday in order to protect the venue from thugs and supporters of some aspirants who have crowded the venue. On Sunday, before the commencement of the accreditation, heavy security was provided and only accredited delegates and aspirants were allowing in. -Advertisement- But despite this, there was still irregularities in the conduct of the primary which lead to 20.5 percent over voting. The number of accredited delegates was 477 while the total votes casted was 575, with 98 over voting. Seven aspirants participated in the primary and they were Adegboyega Adegoke, Bimbo Adekanmbi, Sarafadeen Alli, who had earlier withdrawn from the race, Dr Kola Balogun, Idris Kola-Balogun, Waheed Olajide and Rotimi Francis Adeniyi. Adegboyega Adegoke got 53 votes, Bimbo Adekanmbi 98 votes, Sarafadeen Alli who had earlier withdrawn from the primary got 107 votes, Dr Kola Balogun 93 votes, Idris Kola-Daisi 212 votes, Waheed Olajide 2 votes, Rotimi Francis Adeniyi 4 votes while 6 votes were voided. With the result, total votes was 575 but 477 delegates were accredited making the results had 98 over voting, which translates to 20.5 percent over voting. POLL After the announcement of the results and some of the aspirants called the attention of the INEC officials to the over voting, there was a protests from some delegates and the INEC officials refused to declare the winner with the over blotted votes. It was gathered from the INEC official that even with just 1 over voting at the primary talkless of 98 over voting, the results has to be cancelled. The aspirants and delegates are awaiting for the official decision of the INEC as at the time of filling this report.