LAGOS – Despite that Abiola Adekoya, 60-year-old nurse is a retired civil servant, she is still working tirelessly to create awareness about contraceptives, thereby demystifying myths which hinder use of family planning services among women in Lagos State. For Adekoya, no Nigerian woman should die from pregnancy-related reasons if there is unhindered access, availability and use of family planning. The family planning facilitator and resident social worker in Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Lagos State, told Daily Independent during an exclusive interview that the use of family planning enables mothers and their babies to be healthier, and avoid risky pregnancies. -Advertisement- Narrating her adventure,  the veteran in family planning said, “Between 1986 and 1987,  I started my family planning training in Ogun State. Then I moved to Lagos State Service Commission (LSCC) through transfer in 1991 where I have worked in different Local Government Areas(LGAs).  In Ikorodu, I joined the Family Planning Unit before I was transferred to Kosofe, and later to Lagos Mainland before I retired.” On how she garnered her wealth of experience, Adekoya said, “I had a lot of skill acquisition as a family planning provider because I also trained at Lagos University Teaching Hospital  (LUTH) Idiaraba, Mushin. At LUTH, we were trained on family planning. Since I retired in 2015, I have worked with many developmental partners like ‘DKT’ who brought family planning outreach to my community. We provided family planning for 150 women in my community among others in the neigbouring Local Government Areas. I was also among the family planning providers trained and supported by Pathfinder International, Nigeria and Nigerian Urban Reproductive Health Initiatives (NURHI). Through the support of Pathfinder International, I carried out radio call-in programmes in Radio Lagos, she added.” She stressed on the importance of family planning, noting that it offers unlimited benefits to every woman who adopts any of the methods. Adekoya said, some of family planning methods available in various clinics in Lagos are implants, injectables, lactation, pills, condoms, Amenorrhea, patch, ring, bead and the irreversible ones like bilateral tubal ligation and vasectomy. She advised providers of family planning services to counsel the clients on the various methods available and the side effects, so that they can make informed choices. POLL The veteran in family planning said she had trained over 300 health workers on family planning, assuring that she would continue to raise awareness on family planning considering its numerous health and economic benefits to individuals and the entire country. For instance, she said, “In mainland, I trained 60 community health providers on family planning, between 2015 and 2016 alone.” Similarly Adekoya has provided family planning for countless women in her community, neigbouring communities among other LGAs in Lagos State. She said, “In my community here, I have introduced family planning to many women and they are embracing it. Family planning is a tool for safe motherhood. It saves lives. It creates a healthy family.” The mother of four and grandmother of many children, however, identified lack of budget line for consumables as a major factor affecting women from coming out to totally embrace family planning. Raising healthy and happy children is a major challenge in many  African societies today, where the economy is constantly declining. In addition to this, many African countries, such as Nigeria, are in poor health and have high child and maternal mortality rates. Studies show that unplanned pregnancies without family planning cause population growth in many countries around the world. With this in mind, all countries are increasingly being called upon to curb population explosions by introducing family planning methods. However, for some women in the Agboyi-Ketu area of Lagos, the use of contraceptives using different methods of family planning remains an effective tool to regulate frequent births and induce desirable family size. Mrs. Dolapo Modupe, 43-year- old mother of five is one of several mothers taking advantage of family planning in Alapere, Ketu, Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of the state. The joyful mother of four expressed great delight using the implant method. She expressed great joy in the implant method. She told this reporter during her recent field trip to the area, “Ever since I started family planning, I have enjoyed having sex with my husband without fear of getting pregnant. Now I know that I’m more relieved than I used to be and I don’t have  to worry about  unplanned pregnancies. All this is possible because my husband supported this family planning process. It is our right to decide how many children  we want. ” Similarly, Mrs. Modupe Abiodun said that the use of contraceptive methods has saved her and her husband from having more children than they could cater for. The obviously ecstatic woman said, “You can see I have six children already which is even too much. When I had my sixth child, one matron came to me and told me to use family planning otherwise I would soon give birth to the seventh one. I said, God forbid, the sixth one was even a mistake. But because I get pregnant easily, I was afraid and had to listen to the matron who is a retired nurse. The matron counselled me and then introduced me to the Intra Uterine Contraceptive Device (IUCD), assuring me that it would last longer,” she added. IUCD is a long acting reversible contraception that goes into the uterus. The business woman, further said, “Though I was having some side effects from it initially, I am happy for it because my body has adjusted to it. Thanks to the matron as I now enjoy sex with my husband without fear of getting pregnant.” Another 29-year- old mother of two, Ireti Davies said she is fulfilled using family planning.  She said that the method has provided her double benefit of quality living for her two children and planned pregnancy. Apparently excited, she said. “I chose implants to give my children ample space. I became pregnant 6 months after giving birth to my first child. Taking care of a pregnant baby  was not easy for me. I don’t want to make such a mistake again.” Studies have shown that infants born to women who conceived less than six months after giving birth had a 40 per cent increased risk of being born prematurely and a 61 per cent increased risk of low birth weight as compared with infants born to mothers who gave birth after 18 months or two years between pregnancies. There have been increasing concerns about growing unmet needs and low CPR amid poor budgets for contraceptives as Nigeria recently launched the Family Planning  (FP2030) commitment and dissemination of other Reproductive Health Policy documents. Though family planning is recognised as an important tool in the prevention of unintended pregnancies, unsafe abortions, child and maternal deaths, its budgets are either not released or released untimely, therefore meeting set targets remain unrealistic. Recall that the Federal Government had a target in 2012, to increase Modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (mCPR) to 36 percent by 2018.  However, on July 11, 2017, at the family planning summit in London, this target was rebased to 27 percent by 2020. Meanwhile, two years later, the modern contraceptive rate in the country remains at 12 percent. With the steady decline of funding from donors, coupled with the unmet need for modern methods of contraception in 2021, put at 12 percent of all women, there is an increasing call for government at all levels to increase domestic funding for improved access to family planning services. With 10.6 million Nigerian women lacking access to contraceptives due to growing demand, stakeholders have urged the Federal Government to increase funding for family planning. The 2018 Nigeria Demographic Health Survey (NDHS) confirmed that 10.6 million women in the country do not have access to contraceptives, despite the growing demand for family planning. The 2018 report further showed that Nigeria has a low modern contraceptive prevalence rate of 12 percent. This is below the sub-Saharan average of 24 percent. The Federal Government had in 2011 rolled out a policy meant to enable women to access contraceptives free of charge, however, only 12 percent of Nigeria’s estimated 42 million women use modern contraceptives. Conscientious family planning providers like Adekoya believes that if all unmet needs for modern contraception in the country were satisfied, unintended pregnancies would drop by 77 percent, from 2.5 million to 555,000 per year. Further, the annual number of unplanned births would decrease from 885,000 to 200,000 and the number of abortions would drop from 1.3 million to 287,000.    