The United Kingdom will hand over to the Armed Forces of Ukraine Malloy T150 drones, which can deliver equipment and ammunition to the troops on the front line. The information has not yet been officially confirmed, but Sky News quoted a source from the UK Ministry of Defense as saying that such a shipment was being prepared. The drones are part of a new military aid package announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The new British military package of 300 million pounds [$375 million] was announced on Tuesday, May 3. Quadcopters have been tested by the British Royal Marines. The drones have a range of 70 km and can transport up to 68 kg of cargo. The British company Malloy Aeronautics produces Malloy T150 drones. -Advertisement- The T150 cargo drone quadcopter can operate autonomously for 36 minutes. The drone has been tested in various meteorological and climatic conditions. It can be controlled from a laptop using the points on the map to determine the route of the flight. The drone is quite compact, which allows you to fold it in a special case. In early April, the United Kingdom delivered to the Ukrainian Armed Forces a Mastiff mine-resistant ambush-protected and infantry mobility vehicle [MRAP] and a Jackal or MWMIK [Mobility Weapon-Mounted Installation Kit]. The two military vehicles are part of the military equipment and weapons systems that London has already delivered to Kyiv. The UK delivered 4,000 NLAW man-portable anti-tank guided missile weapons and Javelin anti-tank missile systems to Ukraine in March, StarStreak MANPADS man-portable air defense missile systems. In early April, the UK approved a new aid of € 120 million including 800 NLAW and Javelin anti-tank guided missiles, loitering ammunition, helmets, night vision equipment, and body armor, CVRT tracked reconnaissance armored vehicles including FV104 Samaritan ambulance version, FV106 Samson armored recovery vehicle, FV107 Scimitar with 30mm cannon, FV103 Spartan APC, as well as Stormer StarStreak mobile air defense tracked armored vehicles.  POLL 