P/HARCOURT – The Anti-vandal Squad of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Rivers State Command has uncovered a residential building that doubles as a dump site for the storage of locally/ illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO). Abu Tambuwal FCAI, the Rivers State Commandant, who was represented by the Head of Anti-vandal Squad DCC, Joachin Okafor ,while speaking with newsmen at the scene of the crime, said following a sustained intelligence that a particular building along a notable University in Port Harcourt is being used as loading point of illegally refined AGO. The surveillance team of the Anti-vandal Squad swung into action to effects the arrest of those carrying out the act which amounts to economic sabotage. -Advertisement- “Based on sustained intelligence, the Surveillance team of the Anti-vandal Squad laid ambush for 3days to monitor the events around the area; In consonance with the provisions of Section 3 (l) (ii) of the NSCDC ACT 2003 as amended 2007; I eventually ordered my men to advance into the compound and we later confirmed that the ash colour bungalow building located at Iwofe Rumuolumeni, Obio Akpor Local Government Area is being used as a loading point of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil stored in cellophane bags. “ In addition, we saw a black Lexus 330 saloon Car with number plate Bayelsa GBB 52EA, a Toyota Avalon Gold colour Car with registration number Rivers FH 730 PHC laden with some cellophane bags of illegally refined AGO, a Boat Engine and several bags of AGO stored in cellophane bags scattered within the premises. “Let me use this opportunity to reiterate to the general public that the NSCDC Rivers State Command will not relent in the fight against oil theft, illegal oil bunkering and all acts of economic sabotage in the State. “If this unscrupulous act was not uncovered it could have led into fire outbreak and the continuous operation of illegal refineries in the area would definitely lead to environmental degradation and pollution of the environment which is hazardous to the health of the good people of Rivers State”. He said the Command will carry out detailed investigation as no one no matter how highly placed or not would be exonerated if found culpable especially as the perpetrators are currently at large. POLL The residential building has been sealed and the operatives have cordon off the area. “We have also identified a local jetty nearby the scene of the crime where illegally refined AGO are being loaded for onward transmission to would be buyers”, he said.