The Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, has warned that the Federal Government would consider sanctioning defiant terminal operators who fail to implement the collection of Practitioners Operating Fees(POF). The Permanent Secretary gave this warning while fielding questions from journalists in Lagos shortly after a closed door meeting organised by the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) with partially and non-compliant stakeholders. Fielding questions on the resolution of the meeting, Ajani said: “We’ve engaged terminal operators, who have not either been fully compliant or non-compliant at all with the collection of the POF funds, which is a precedent to the exit of containers from the port. -Advertisement- “And we have had a good engagement; some out rightly claimed that they didn’t know, while some said they do and have integrated and are still adjusting. “But they have all given their gentlemen agreements that they will go back and begin to collect the POF, and we also agreed that within the next two months, all of that should be resolved. The back payments will be made, and we will continue to collect this money. “Let me clarify here that it isn’t the terminal operators that collect the money, it is the freight forwarders that have to pay. “There is a platform developed by CRFFN, and it doesn’t take more than two minutes online to make the payment, and all the terminal operators will see the receipt. “So, this conversation is to say ‘please, help us to enforce this’. Because Nigeria is losing revenue from the non-collection of the POF, we need to ensure that this is done, and after two months, if it isn’t complied with, we will now begin to look at sanctions. POLL “Fortunately, an arm of EFCC was here, and they have said that this is a prelude for them to get their certificate, and if this isn’t done, they can’t even open an account because they have to see from the CRFFN end that the freight forwarders are compliant with this directive. “I have told them in clear terms that you cannot come to a country and choose the processes of engagement. “You have rules in every country on how businesses should run, and they have to comply with that. We don’t have any exemptions for anybody,. “Businesses have to run based on the rules of Nigeria, and that was clearly spelled out to them. I believe that going forward, the language and message are very clear, and we will come back. “Like I said to them, the agreement is that at the beginning of the third month, I would be asking for the compliance rates, at least from CRFFN, and I clearly stated that if we find anybody not complying, then the sanctions will have to kick in. “I think two months is generous enough for people to get their affairs in order, and we have a gentleman agreement that I believe they will adhere to, so we don’t have to resort to the sanctions.”