Spanish La Liga power FC Barcelona will battle MLS teams Inter Miami and the New York Red Bulls in two soccer exhibition games this summer, the teams announced Thursday. Inter Miami will host Barcelona in the first preseason matchup at 7:30 p.m. EDT July 19 at DRV PNK Stadium in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The Red Bulls will battle Barcelona at 7 p.m. EDT July 30 at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J. “To bring a club the caliber of FC Barcelona to South Florida will continue to put our region on the map as a global fútbol epicenter,” Inter Miami chief business officer Xavier Asensi said in a news release. -Advertisement- “We are proud and excited to bring this great game to DRV PNK Stadium for our growing, passionate and multi-cultural fanbase.” “We are extremely honored to host FC Barcelona at Red Bull Arena, one of the premier soccer venues in all of North America,” New York Red Bulls general manager Marc de Grandpré said in a news release. “Since 2010, we have proudly hosted many of the top men’s and women’s clubs throughout the world, and on July 30, we look forward to writing a new chapter in this stadium’s history when welcoming Barcelona for a match against your New York Red Bulls.” Barcelona’s roster features United States National Team defender Sergino Dest and European standouts Pedri, Sergio Busquets, Gerard Pique and Marc-Andre ter Stegen, among others. The preseason appearances will mark Barcelona’s fifth visit to the United States in the last eight years. Barcelona played two preseason matches in 2019 in Miami and Ann Arbor, Mich. POLL Inter Miami and the Philadelphia Union played to a scoreless draw Wednesday in Philadelphia. The third-year franchise logged three wins, six losses and three draws, and sits in 12th place in the Eastern Conference through a dozen games this season. The Red Bulls totaled five wins, two losses and five draws through a dozen games. It is in fifth place in the Eastern Conference. The two MLS teams face off at 6 p.m. EDT Sunday in Fort Lauderdale.