ABUJA – The Federal Housing Authori­ty (FHA) on Saturday disowned popular Nollywood star, Tonto Dikeh’s ex-lover, Prince Joseph Kpokpogiri, after the Federal Capital Territory Administra­tion (FCTA) pulled down his Multi- Million Naira Mansion in Abuja. Officials of FHA, alongside its Managing Director, Gben­ga Ashafa, that visited the site of the doomed building three days ago, in company of some top management team of FCTA, admitted that the plot of land originally belonged to FHA, but denied that proper building plan was approved before the mansion was erected. FHA, however, affirmed that notices to stop work were served at different stages and time of the work, but Kpokpo­giri refused to comply. -Advertisement- The Executive Secretary of the Federal Capital Develop­ment Authority (FCTA), Engr. Shehu Hadi, who was also in the team that visited the site, said that the road alignment had been done long ago and FHA was duly notified. Hadi noted that the road alignment which the demol­ished building obstructs was designed to serve as an im­portant bypass to Abuja-Keffi axis. He added that any plan to realign the road because of the building would be diffi­cult and not fair judgement to those that it would affect, con­sidering that the demolished building was not in existence earlier when the plan started. Also speaking, the Director, Department of Development Control, Muktar Galadima, said the multi-billion nai­ra mansion, located in the highbrow district of Guzape, Abuja, was an unapproved, and could not be allowed to override public interest. Galadima noted that the mansion sitting on a rock in the fast developing district, was an obstruction to a major road network, connecting the popular Apo Bridge to many parts of the city. POLL According to him, FHA was duly allocated the area in the district to carry out its mass housing programme. He, however, clarified that when the road network of the district was officially re­aligned, FHA was promptly notified that some plots of lands within its area had been affected. Galadima added that FHA was ordered not to allow any further development on the affected plots, as replacement plots would be given to them.