Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has assured Nigerians that he would restructure the country if elected President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. Atiku, who is vying for the number one seat of the country on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), told Abia delegates during a one-day visit to the state that Nigeria is due for restructuring and that he would begin the process as soon as he is elected President of the country. The former Vice President was in the state as part of his nationwide consultation with delegates of the PDP across the nation. He gave insight into what he also wants to achieve as the number one citizen of the nation, outlining them to be unity, security, economy and education. -Advertisement- According to Abubakar, he would pursue these five agendas with vigour, “because the Southeast and other groups in the country have desired for a balanced polity where no section or region would marginalize”. He described the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government as a disaster, saying that the most important thing facing the PDP right now is to unite and ensure that it wins back the Presidency which the APC government has devastated. The Director-General, Atiku Campaign Organization, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, asked Abia delegates to nominate the former Vice President for the number one job, stressing that he is the only politician that would address some of the ill-treatments and marginalisation of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) are lamenting about. The state Chairman of PDP, Rt Hon Alwell Asiforo Okere, recalled that Abia delegates voted overwhelmingly for Atiku in the party’s convention in Port Harcourt in 2018 and assured him that delegates would support his aspiration again. Three delegates who represented the three Senatorial Districts, Hon Ama Abraham, Rt Hon Acho Nwakanma (former Deputy Governor) and Chief Tony Ukasoanya, pioneer chairman of PDP in Abia State, asked Atiku to deepen his consultations with Igbo leaders, particularly the Ohanaeze Ndigbo and other PDP aspirant aspirants from the Igbo extraction. POLL This, they believed, would enable the delegates to arrive at an acceptable point. Earlier, during his courtesy call on Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, the former Vice president noted that he embarked on the nationwide consultation to inform and sensitise the delegates on his decision to re-contest the presidential election in 2023 which he contested in 2019 and lost to the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC. Welcoming him at the Government House, Umuahia, Ikpeazu described Atiku Abubakar as a credible aspirant and recalled how he supported and voted for him at the 2019 PDP convention in Port Harcourt. Ikpeazu, while lamenting that the country has continued to drift into an abyss with no remedy in sight, believed that the likes of Atiku Abubakar would restore Nigeria to its past glory and assured him of the support of Abia delegates. Amongst the personalities that attended the meeting included the immediate past National Organising Secretary of PDP, Col Austin Akobundu rtd and pioneer Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Chief Onyema Ugochukwu.