ABUJA  – Finally, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday picked the expression of interest and nomination forms of the ruling party to seek for the presidential ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023, insisting on zoning of the APC ticket to the south. The bold move also shuts up partisan supporters of the National leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who have lately launched online attacks against Osinbajo with the aim of dissuading him from aspiring for the ticket. Speaking when he led supporters to pick the nomination form for the VP, Senator Kabiru Gaya, leader of the Osinbajo Support Groups and Coordinator of the Progressive Consolidation Group, restated his belief that the Vice President is the most viable and proper person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari and therefore insisted that the APC presidential ticket should be zoned to the South. -Advertisement- Senator Gaya said if elected as successor to the incumbent, Osinbajo would hit the ground running. “I have been in politics for many years and I understand at a certain level how politics should be played. I believe it is a game of give and take. We have served for the president in this country for eight years under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari ,so the presidency should go to the South and that is why we said the best person to handle this matter is somebody who has been in the system. If he’s sworn-in today at the Eagles Square, by tomorrow morning he can pick up because he is already in the system. “I was a governor; I know what it takes when you are sworn-in; it takes time for you to learn and move forward. But when you are in the system, you don’t have that problem. It’s going to improve because they have now drawn a plan in which you could have peace, stability and a better economy and he’s going to improve on that new plan; we have to develop the economy to a better one and for Nigerians to be better. POLL ” He dismissed concerns over the number of persons aspiring to run for president, saying they are all qualified to run. “Well democracy is a game of number, every aspirant that is contesting is qualified; nobody is not qualified to contest election but we are saying that we should look along the line and see who’s the best material and I’m sure if we put them together, all of them together, they will pick Osinbajo as candidate. ” Pastor Tunde Bakare who picked his forms premised his aspiration on rebuilding the nation from the devastation it is going through, adding that all hands must be on deck to pull Nigeria from the brink. No matter who emerges as the winner of the ticket, he said, all must join hands to support the person. “I trust God helping us with men of goodwill, East, West, North and South from the country across party lines, male and female, who will rise up and rebuild our nation in such a way that the devastation we are experiencing we would see again no more. “Our programme is very simple: peace, prosperity and progress and possibilities. Upon those four pillars Nigeria will be rebuilt and the hope of many citizens would be rekindled. We are all going to join hands to make it happen. No other nation will fix our nation, it will take Nigerians from all walks of life, within and without and those in the Diaspora to join hands together to build our nation. “God rules in the affairs of men and he gives it to whoever he wills. A southerner is a Nigerian, a northerner is a Nigerian. We trust God that the best, the fittest and the most competent will emerge and the one who truly loves our people, especially the poor will rise to fix our nation. “Many people run in a race but only one person will wear the crown. There is only one seat, whoever wins the rest of us must rise to support him to rebuild Nigeria, East, West, North or South, Nigeria is our country.”