LAGOS – Forty-one years on from their inaugural battle in the beautiful city of Par­is, Liverpool and Real Madrid reconvene just north of the French capital in Saint-Denis for the 2021/22 UEFA Champions League (UCL) final on Saturday (today), May 28, 2022. And so football fans across the world will be glued to their screens for what can only be described as a historic night as the 2021/2022 UEFA Champions League (UCL) Final takes centre stage. Saturday’s encounter will mark the 10th time that Liverpool have appeared in the final of the European Cup/ Champions League, and some may argue that they have enjoyed a relatively favourable run to the showpiece event, but as Jurgen Klopp will surely stress, there are no easy fixtures in this competition. -Advertisement- English side Liverpool FC will be gunning for a seventh Champions League title on the back of a season that has seen them win two domestic trophies already. Current LaLiga Champions and 13-time UCL winners Real Madrid will also be looking to further establish their European dominance with a fourteenth winners medal. In Head-to-head, both teams have previously met on eight occasions in European competition, with Los Blancos picking up four wins compared to a trio of successes for the Reds, while the most recent encounter ended in a draw. Alan Kennedy’s winner propelled Liverpool to the European Cup over Real Madrid in the 1981 final, which would kickstart a run of three consecutive wins for the Merseyside club after a 5-0 aggregate success in the 2008-09 last-16. However, Liverpool have since lost four and drawn one of their last five against the Spanish champions, including the 2018 final – remembered for all the right reasons by Gareth Bale and all the wrong reasons by Loris Karius. POLL The last time both teams met in the UCL Final was in 2018 and the Los Blancos won their 13th title at the expense of the Reds. The match saw a lot of drama go down with Liverpool striker Mohammed Salah substituted out early in the game after a challenge from Real Madrid’s Sergio Ramos, a brace from Gareth Bale albeit below par goalkeeping from Liverpool’s goalie Loris Karius. Thus, the 2022 UCL Final looks like a revenge mission for the Reds and is shaping out to be an explosive encounter. Liverpool are enjoying a remarkable season despite narrowly missing out an unprecedented quadruple on Sunday. Perennial English Premier League (EPL) rivals Manchester City aside, they’ve consistently been top of the class for every assignment sent their way. Real Madrid, on the other hand, may have already been crowned Spanish champions, but their European campaign defies both belief and description after a series of stellar comebacks. Their journey to this point could fill a novel, and the final chapter is yet to be written. In Lagos, the excitement will be twice as much as the official sponsors of Europe’s elite football competition; Heineken will be hosting an exclusive match viewing experience alongside a lush party to wrap up an exciting UCL campaign. Fans will be treated to a night of fun, merriment and unbridled excitement at the Cubana, Ikeja from 6pm as they enjoy the game on giant screens along with celebrities and other side attractions. After the games, fans will be treated to live music by Nigerian singer and rapper Ladipoe, DJ performances from CrowdKontroller and MC Fish will bring the vibes and the energy. Instant prizes and other mouthwatering giveaways will abound as the brand promises a big finale for this season’s UCL campaign. Senior brand manager, Heineken, Chinwe Greg-Egu has assured fans of an exciting time ahead of the game saying “This match is once again an opportunity to delight our fans and consumers and being the last match of this season, we are going all out to ensure everyone has a great time. “The fans are the life of the game and that is why all through this season we have been cheering to all the fans and sharing in their passion” The world-renowned beer has already created some memorable moments for fans this season with the UEFA Champions Trophy Tour that visited Lagos and Abuja in the company of four-time UCL Winner and UEFA Global Ambassador, Clarence Seedorf. The fun train also touched down in Warri, Enugu, Asaba and Port Harcourt as the brand spread the UCL magic across the country and rewarded consumers with exhilarating match viewing experiences.