…Says Arrangement to meet EX-VP on Monday, May 16th Remains Intact The Akwa Ibom State government has declared as fake news claims in the media space that Governor Udom Emmanuel blocked former Vice President Atiku Abubakar from meeting with People Democratic Party (PDP) delegates in the State ahead of the PDP Convention later this month. In a press statement signed by the Akwa Ibom State Honourable Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Ini Ememobong, and titled: “Re: 2023 Presidential Shocker: Udom Blocks Atiku From Consulting Akwa Ibom Delegates”, Governor Emmanuel, who is also in the presidential race like Atiku, slammed the news as fake. -Advertisement- The Governor, in the statement, also pointed out that contrary to the false report, he had made adequate arrangements for the former VP to meet with the State delegates just like other aspirants who had visited the state. Governor Emmanuel also urged “the entire public to discountenance the fake news and treat it as an act of mischief of the highest order.” He added that the rumoured action was not only “laced with foul and profane language”, it is “totally incompatible with the known accommodating disposition of the Governor”. Revealing what steps the Governor had gone to receive Atiku the ahead of his meeting with the delegates, the statement said: “The truth is that the Governor who has been in communication and contact with all other Presidential Aspirants(Atiku Abubakar inclusive) was informed that the former Vice President will be visiting on Monday, 16th May, 2022 to meet with delegates and thereafter see him (Gov. Emmanuel)by 4pm, a proposal that was unhesitatingly accepted. “It is therefore pure mischief for anyone to insinuate that the Governor is preventing Abubakar from seeing delegates. Other Presidential Aspirants have visited the party in Akwa Ibom without a hitch, so why would Atiku’s be different?” POLL The state government urged members of the public: “In the light of current circumstances surrounding Atiku’s media posture, especially online, we will like to discard the news item as not coming from them and not having the authorization of the Presidential Aspirant himself, especially since the allegation is not personally signed off and is not posted on any of his verified social media accounts. The Akwa Ibom State government also reassured Atiku and his Campaign team that its “delegates and team are waiting to receive the aspirant on the agreed date and time.”