A glaucoma is a group of eye disorders characterized by progressive optic nerve damage. It is usually but not always due to excessive pressure within the eyes due increase fluid content of the eye. Glaucoma is the second most common cause of blindness worldwide. About 1.1 to 1.4 million adults in Nigeria have the disease, and 64 million people worldwide have glaucoma, but only half are aware of it. Glaucoma can occur at any age but is six times more common among people older than 60. There are two major types of glaucoma: The “angle” refers to the angle formed by the junction of the iris and cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber. -Advertisement- Risk factors Age: Glaucoma may develop in any age group. However, it is most common among people older than 40 years. Positive family history: Glaucoma is prone to people who have a genetic predisposition. High Intraocular pressure: Although many people with glaucoma have normal pressure within their eyes, about one-third of those with glaucoma have increased pressure. Pre-Existing eye defect: Short or long sight vision may predispose people to glaucoma. POLL Specific disease: Having diabetes, migraine, and high blood pressure may increase the chance of developing glaucoma. Race: Africans, Hispanics, or Asian heritage are more commonly affected. Causes of Glaucoma The eyes contain a clear liquid called aqueous humour, the fluid which is continuously produced and secreted in the space within it. A mesh-like channel drains this liquid into blood vessels. At all points in time, the amount of aqueous humour drained equals the amount produced. Glaucoma usually develops when drainage channels of aqueous humour in the eyes are blocked, liquid in the eyes is trapped in a closed space, causing pressure to build up, which damages the optic nerve—a biologic wire that carries visual information from the eyes to the brain which allows us to see. The exact cause of this channel blockade is still not known. However, some people with glaucoma have normal pressure within their eyes. Moreover, some have high intra-pressure in their eyes (high intraocular pressure) with normal vision and are considered glaucoma suspects because they are at increased risk of developing the disease. Symptoms and signs Symptoms and signs of glaucoma vary with the type of glaucoma, but the defining characteristic is optic nerve damage, as evidenced by an abnormal optic disk and certain types of visual field deficits. Symptoms may include the following: Diagnosis Glaucoma is diagnosed when characteristic findings of optic nerve damage are present, and other causes (e.g., multiple sclerosis) have been excluded. Elevated IOP makes the diagnosis more likely, but elevated IOP can occur in the absence of glaucoma and is not essential for diagnosis. Diagnosis of glaucoma requires a Complete eye examination performed by a specialist who will conduct tests that check for the following. Characteristic optic nerve changes Characteristic visual field defects Exclusion of other causes Intraocular pressure (IOP) is usually greater than 21 mm Hg (but not required for the diagnosis) Glaucoma should be suspected in a patient with any of the following: An abnormal optic nerve on ophthalmoscopy Elevated IOP Typical visual field defects Family history of glaucoma Screening The primary healthcare provider can screen glaucoma by checking visual fields with frequency-doubling technology (FDT) perimetry and ophthalmoscopic evaluation of the optic nerve. FDT perimetry involves using a desktop device that can screen for visual field abnormalities suggestive of glaucoma in 2 to 3 minutes per eye. Treatment The mainstay of therapy is decreasing intraocular pressure (IOP) by using drugs or laser or incisional surgery. Patients with characteristic optic nerve and corresponding visual field changes are treated regardless of IOP measurement. Lowering the IOP is the only clinically proven treatment. The initial target IOP measurement for chronic adult and juvenile glaucomas is at least 20 to 40% below pretreatment readings. Three methods are available: drugs, laser surgery, and incisional surgery. The type of glaucoma determines the appropriate method or methods. Drugs and most laser surgeries (trabeculoplasty) modify the existing aqueous secretion and drainage system. Traditional incisional surgeries (e.g., guarded filtration procedures, glaucoma drainage implant devices [tube shunts]) create a new drainage pathway between the anterior chamber and subconjunctival space. Newer incisional surgeries attempt to enhance trabecular or uveoscleral outflow without creating a full-thickness fistula. Prophylactic IOP lowering in patients with ocular hypertension delays the onset of glaucoma. However, because the rate of conversion from ocular hypertension to glaucoma in untreated people is low, the decision to treat prophylactically should be individualized based on the presence of risk factors, the magnitude of IOP elevation, and patient factors (ie, preference for drugs vs. surgery, drug adverse effects). Generally, treatment is recommended for patients with IOP greater than 30 mm Hg even if the visual field is full and the optic nerve disk appears healthy because the likelihood of damage is significant at that IOP level. Outlook: The prognosis for glaucoma depends on the stage at which it is detected. If diagnosed before it damages the optic nerve, the prognosis is generally excellent, so long as the patient follows the treatment correctly. If left untreated, glaucoma will eventually cause blindness. Even with treatment, about 15 percent of people with glaucoma become blind in at least one eye within 20 years. Dr. MKO Abimbola holds a doctoral degree in physician associate studies. He is affiliated with Parkland Hospital, Dallas, Texas. He specializes in general medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and geriatrics.