Along with sealing crucial transfers to strengthen the squad, Bayern Munich officials also have the challenge of extending the contracts of key players. After the contract renewals of Thomas Muller and Sven Ulreich, the Bavarian club needs to reach an agreement with Manuel Neuer and Serge Gnabry. Neuer will eventually sign the new contract since he has hinted at ending his career in Bavaria. Meanwhile, the negotiations with Gnabry have turned out to be challenging. At the start of the season, Gnabry’s renewal looked straightforward. However, the German winger is yet to find Die Roten’s offer satisfactory to sign the deal. According to SportBild (via iMiaSanMia), Gnabry has rejected the improved offer submitted by Bayern. The German club has scheduled no further talks with the winger’s representatives, which is not a good sign ahead of the summer transfer window. -Advertisement- Gnabry is reportedly looking for parity in wages with the likes of Leroy Sane and Kingsley Coman. Sane got a bumper wage package after arriving at the club from Manchester City in 2020. Meanwhile, Coman signed a much-improved deal at the start of 2022, which will make sure that he will stay in Bavaria until 2027. The German winger’s current deal at Die Roten is set to expire in 2023. Bayern has to make a firm decision on his future this summer or risk losing him for nothing next year. Real Madrid is keenly following the situation of Gnabry, but the Spanish club is interested in signing him on a free transfer instead of paying a big fee this year. Considering the negative impact on the Bavarian club’s finances due to the pandemic, Die Roten cannot afford to lose a 26-year-old forward on a free transfer. They need to get some sort of fee for Serge Gnabry if he continues to deliberate over signing a new contract. There will be interest from various top clubs in Gnabry if Bayern decides to cash in this summer. Die Roten reportedly has a contingency plan ready to replace Gnabry so things could move quickly in the next couple of months. The ideal scenario for Die Roten will be the contract renewal of Serge Gnabry. The German winger is well settled in Bavaria, and he is set to enter the peak years of his career. A new winger will need time to get used to Bundesliga, which may hamper the club’s targets for next season. The Bavarian faithful will be hoping that Gnabry soon signs a new contract.