PORT HARCOURT – It was a rude shock to many as the Rivers State Accountant General, Fubara Siminialayi emerged as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for the 2023 general elections. There were a total of 16 aspirants who contested for the ticket of the party after a series of stakeholders meetings and consultations led by the State Governor, Nyesom Wike failed to reach a consensus. Siminialayi who hails from Opobo/Nkoro local government area of the state, pulled 721 votes out of total votes cast of 890 to emerge the overall winner. -Advertisement- Party delegates from the 23 local government areas of the state who arrived at the Obi Wali International Conference Centre in Port Harcourt, the venue of the primary since 8 am on Wednesday morning completed accreditation at about 2 pm only for the actual coring to commence at about 6:10 pm. The Chairman of the electoral committee, Prof. Walter Mboto led three others to announce the mode of the election and assured them that the process would be free and transparent. Mboto further said, “I will give two minutes for anyone (aspirant) who wants to step down. I assure you of a free and transplant process.” The actual voting started with Abua/Odual local government area at about 6:07 pm, even as there are 980 valid votes with eight voided votes. Among the aspirants are former deputy governor, Tele Ikuru, FubaraSiminialayi, Felix Obuah, Dr Tammy Danagogo, George Kelly, Dr Abiye Sekibo among others. POLL Meanwhile, some of the aspirants, including the immediate past Secretary to the Rivers State Government, Dr Danagogo, Senator George Sekibo, former Senator, Lee Maeba, Gabriel Pidomson and the immediate past state PDP chairman, Felix Obuah among others allegedly boycotted the primary despite hitherto going through the entire process. Announcing the results, Prof Mboto said Isaac Kamalu Commissioner for Finance pulled 86 votes, George Kelly, former Commissioner for Special Duties got 37 votes, Dr Tammy Danagogo former secretary to the state government scored 36 while Chief Felix Obuah got 2 votes, Alabo David Briggs scored four votes. Few of the aspirants sighted at the venue were Engr Tele Ikuru, Dr. Abiye Sekibo,, Chief Boma Iyaye, George Kelly and Isaac Kamaku. Fubara Siminialayi was declared wanted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, along with three other top state government officials over alleged N117 billion fraud.