Olawale Babatunde Animashaun is arguably Nigeria’s most popular on-air personality with over two million people listening to Wetin Dey, his programme on Max FM. In this interview with LUKMON AKINTOLA, the enigma, who is popular as ‘Wale Pow Pow Pow’ speaks on his journey from being an accountant to a broadcaster, the art of making people happy, and impacting the society. Can you give us a rundown of how you found yourself in radio broadcasting? I got into radio by accident because I studied Accounting. However, by a stroke of luck, I found myself on the radio, and since then, I have found fulfilment in making people smile, making them happy. When people see me outside, they are like “this man, God will bless you. You make us happy anytime we listen to your program,” that is fulfilment for me. It goes a long way for me. That fulfilment cannot be bought, it can only be earned. -Advertisement- People who listen to you on the radio tend to describe you as a clown, are you one? They say comedy is a serious business, but I am not a comedian, I am just someone who talks and do my thing. For me, it’s about letting the next generation know it’s well, it can be better. Life is all about making the environment conducive for the next person. It is a fact that you are always hyperactive, how do you make your listeners happy when you are sad? Funny enough, a lot of people ask me if I ever get angry. This is because I don’t get upset easily. If I am upset with you, people won’t ask what happen, they will ask what did you do to Wale? With over two million people listening to your show ‘Wetin Dey,’ it is an understatement to say that you are popular, tell us about your future projections. POLL The next thing for me is how to make the next generation to be conscious of the continuum of happiness because a lot of people are not happy and it takes a lot to make someone happy. With your fame, one would anticipate a political career soon, is this in the pipeline? My projection is not focused on going into politics. For me, it’s about preaching love to ensure we have a better society. Some people use their popularity negatively and do not have a positive impact on society, I am different. How do you use your fame to impact society? I don’t think that I am popular, but if you say so, who am I not to accept. However, as I said earlier, it’s all about humanity. I stand to be corrected, but I think I use my popularity to impact people positively. Some people are looking for just five thousand Naira to help their medical condition; some people are looking for twenty thousand Naira to settle school fees while there are people who spend two hundred and fifty thousand Naira to buy alcohol, so why not channel the people with two hundred and fifty thousand Naira to help those who need five thousand? Helping the needy by making them laugh is what I know how to do best. Let those that have known that there are people who don’t have and need just a little to live. Between television and radio which do you prefer? Radio has a bigger outreach; you don’t need to sit down in a place to listen like you watch the television. It’s passive. How do you explain the thick texture of your voice? Funny enough, my father has a deep voice but not this deep, so I guess it’s hereditary. My family members do have the same voice but mine seems to be exceptional. It has helped me in so many ways, even when I find myself in trouble. There was a time I was in America and I was at a bus stop. I just came out from the train and it was late and these bad guys were coming towards me. Immediately they got close to me and I spoke that was all. I have been in situations where, if not for my voice, maybe I won’t be here today. All I have to do is to talk and they will be like, this one is one of us, leave him. When I first started work in Max FM and I was in the credit-control department and my boss said this person is owing us, can you give them a call? My boss was there to see how  I would handle it and I called the company and we spoke, as I hung up, the same person called my boss and said ‘we know we owe you but you don’t have to threaten us. Why do you need to hire someone to threaten us?’ And my boss was like, ‘he’s our staff, we didn’t hire anybody.’ I think my voice gives me that edge because when I talk, everyone gives me attention. I tell people it’s a medical defect that has come to play positively. How do you keep your street vibes updated? Sometimes, I go as far as parking my car and entering a commercial bus just to get the pulse of the people. I have been to some really dangerous places to know how exactly these things work. I have been to brothels just to talk to people there including the bad boys. In the developed world, it’s called investigative journalism, but I call it getting to know what you want to talk about. As far as I am concerned, you can’t tell me about marriage if you have not been married. You can’t tell me about labour pains if you have not given birth. So, I go out of my way to know about the sector I want to talk about. I go out at night, I go under the bridges to mingle with the hoodlums, that’s how bad it is. One sad memory that is associated with your bubbly programme is the death of your late colleague, Iya Jogbo, how has it been since then? Iya Jogbo’s real name is Emmanuela Porbeni Adepoju. She was a friend. She had been through so much in life and we talked. It got to a stage where people started thinking we were having a relationship and I said no. It’s just that we could flow because we understood each other. She would say it as it is. Since she left, it has not been easy, I won’t lie to you. Now, we have new people on board. We have Baby Lawyer, Punky Aboki, they are a whole new breed, so it’s taking time for us to align but I think we are doing well. But it’s a new ball game from the elderly Iya Jogbobi Oro to Baby Lawyer who is more feisty and all that. As I said, I think we have aligned well but it’s going to get better.