The 2022 edition of the globally celebrated Children’s Day may have come and gone but the sweet memories of the day will, no doubt, linger a lifetime for those hitherto seemingly forgotten children albeit fished out by the See-Joy Foundation which has set these African future stars on the path of limelight and ultimate career fulfilment via selfless, painstaking comprehensive qualitative educational scholarship. It was awards galore at the expansive mega hall of NECA House, Ikeja on Friday, May 29, 2022 when the See-Joy Foundation led by its founder and Minister of God, Pastor Prosper Kanayo, gathered close to 1000 children and adults just to make a statement for children, in particular, that life does not end at an indigent beginning. Some thirty children coasted home with unexpected awards under several categories including Courage, Creativity and Innovation, Potential and Excellence even as adults and dignitaries who, in one way and the other, have played certain roles to make life hopeful for the hopeless and fountains of the once famished were all honoured with beautiful plaques of awards. -Advertisement- Pastor Prosper Kanayo who philosophised that “Man awards but God rewards, remarked that the almost two-decade-old See-Joy Foundation’s ‘Find-Pick-and-Adopt’ scholarship project for indigent but gifted African children was a direct inspiration from God in addition to his altar assignment of prospering the Gospel and expanding the Kingdom of God. To this end, the Foundation targets a minimum of one million children to be lifted off the bars of poverty and ignorance in Africa, all odds notwithstanding. Kanayo declared: “This year’s celebration would ignite the need to inculcate in the children the values that will distinguish them for their diverse potential and maximise their uniqueness, emphasising who they are and who they can become; rather than who they are not. The aim would be that they are awakened to see the good in themselves while not looking down on other children striving to fulfill their divine potential. Also, it would awaken and unleash (the) locked ideas, creativity and skills as well as maximise challenges and circumstances around them. “All children are great. One in Mathematics while another in Sports; another in Technology while the other in Cooking and other aspects of life. Imagine Elon Musk was a footballer; imagine Ronaldo was a singer and what if Nathaniel Bassey was trying to be an accountant? They may not have been as fulfilled as they are today. POLL “This, no doubt, is a call to pay close attention to each child and not compare them with one another. We must be willing as parents guardians and elders to groom and help them fulfill their God-given abilities. We believe that they are not just the leaders of tomorrow but the brightness of today.” Prof. Ogechi Adeola of the Lagos Business School made an inspiring presentation on the occasion wherein she encouraged the children to be bold, self-confident, focused and determined to succeed in life. Dignitaries at the event included Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, the wife of the Lagos State governor who was there in proxy; top officials from the State Universal Basic Education Board who added colours to the occasion by presenting pupils and children from no fewer than 20 schools across the state.   