ABUJA – The President of the Students Union Government (SUG), Federal Polytechnic Birnin Kebbi, Comrade Naziru Muktar has commended the FG under President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola for the 1.8km road intervention project being commissioned in the Federal Polytechnic, Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State. Comrade Muktar described the road intervention in the Polytechnic as timely and that the road had also brought succour to the Polytechnic Community who before now had faced difficulties in their daily movement around the institution. According to a statement issued by the Director of Press and Public Relations, Blessing Lere-Adams, the SUG President said, “Our students are elated and highly commended the Government who have promptly responded to their need, adding that the timely intervention in this regard has enormously helped the students community and motorists. -Advertisement- “Today we converge at the Waziri Umaru Federal Polytechnic to hand over an important and timely 1.8km rehabilitated road by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing under President Muhammadu Buhari’s led administration.” In his remarks, the Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr. Usman Sani Tunga described the project as great and thanked God Almighty and that the intervention by the Federal Ministry of Works under Fashola had reached them at the right time. He said, “Before the intervention, we encountered several accidents. I am glad to inform the Minister that not the students only are benefitting from this road project but also the entire Polytechnic community and we are not only thanking you sir, but also asking for more road rehabilitation especially the 2.2km road portion leading to the female hostel.” The former Rector of the Polytechnic, Arc. Sani Aliyu who witnessed the hand over said,“Mine is simple, I sincerely appreciate the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing for providing us with this ultra-modern road network. “Honestly speaking, it is indeed a timely intervention which has brought smiles on the faces of the students and the entire community,” he added. POLL Architect Aliyu pointed out that the project was completed in a record time with quality materials and thanked the Federal Government for the quick response. Earlier in his address, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who was represented by the Federal Controller of Works Kebbi State, Engr. Ahmed Yabo said that his Ministry had made road intervention in 46 Tertiary Institutions Nationwide. “We have successfully intervened in various internal road networks of 46 Tertiary Institutions and handed over 29 as at 2021and we now have another 17 ready to be handed over, while we’re currently attending to 30 roads in similar institutions across the country making a total of 76 roads,” he said. The Minister stated that the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari was consistent with its progressive ideal of improving human conditions, describing the process as a critical intervention to support Education. Fashola said, “The gap of our infrastructural needs is steadily being bridged by a gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction on major highways and it has reached the schools.” He expressed the hope that the school will ensure proper maintenance of the asset and not abuse it, pointing out that about 50 people were provided with direct employment during the project.