The Premier League title race took a massive twist this past weekend, as Liverpool dropped points before Manchester City secured a massive win to open a crucial three-point gap and a better goal difference. City, playing after Liverpool had managed just a 1-1 draw with Tottenham Hotspur, thumped a hapless Newcastle United side 5-0 at the Etihad. In a period when ‘mentality monsters’ have been used a lot in reference to these two teams, it was Manchester City who fitted well in the tag on the domestic front. When needed to respond after their calamitous exit from the Champions League, Manchester City did it in emphatic fashion, in front of home fans. Liverpool did it on the continental front, coming from two goals down away in Spain to beat Villarreal. They however fell short at home in the league, prompting presumptions that their title charge is virtually over. Well, based on the two sides’ placing on the standings, that assumption might hold water, but there’s more to it than expecting the race to stay as it is to the end. -Advertisement- Firstly, for a while, these two have been the remaining teams in the title race and they have been doing well, so the chance that either of them can lose at the moment is so slim. This gives newly registered gamers a good chance to take advantage of the various bonuses on offer. On Wincomparator, a comparison of the top bookmakers in the market in the market reveals some lucrative offers, including one of up to $130 at 1XBet, and €100 at Shangrila, Melbet and BetObet. As these two giants charge for the league title, one key area of focus may diminish. Manchester City’s chance is the injury crisis at the club. Ruben Dias was withdrawn at halftime in the win over Newcastle United. It means at the moment City are quite vulnerable at the back with John Stones and Kyle Walker also injured. Reports indicate the three are out for the season remaining. The advantage for City is that their big win over Newcastle means they can still lose a game and stay top, but that will cause them more nervous periods towards the end, and it isn’t something they can wish for. The champions still have to play tough teams – Wolves and West Ham United away, then Aston Villa at home. It is the two away games that hold the promise of a shocker, as City needs seven points from the three remaining matches to win the title. Liverpool will be praying for a favour from those three teams but they still have an uphill task themselves, with the FA Cup final also on their roster. The pressure is on, but Liverpool have encountered that a lot this season, and after the slump at Tottenham, it is hard to see the Reds dropping more points. The big challenge for them, apart from hoping for favours from West Ham, Wolves and Aston Villa, is that they are also chasing the Champions League title and need to keep players fresh. Liverpool face Aston Villa and Southampton in back to back away league games before finishing with a home match against the Wolves.