The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, says he has done well administering the state in the last three and half years of his administration. Oyetola noted that despite the paucity of funds, he has delivered on his campaign promises, adding that the opposition parties cannot in any way stop his re-election in Osun’s July 16 governorship election. The governor said this during the inauguration and launching of N5 million fundraising for the construction of the Secretariat of Osun Chapter of Blacksmith, Welders, Iron Benders & Metal Technician Association of Nigeria (BWIAN), in Osogbo. -Advertisement- Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, Oyetola said that his administration would continue to provide an enabling environment for small-scale businesses to thrive. He said since its inception, his administration has embarked on infrastructural development, providing soft loans for small businesses, ensuring adequate security, as well as, coming up with tax-friendly policies for business owners. The governor, further said that despite the paucity of funds, he has delivered on his campaign promises giving back dividends of democracy to every sector of the economy. Oyetola also said it was evident that this administration has also done excellently well in the area of health, education, infrastructure, empowerment and security, and prompt payment of workers’ salaries, and pensions, among others. The governor, while giving assurance to do more in his second term, urged the electorate not to allow those who lacked adequate knowledge of good governance to deceive them. POLL He also urged the electorate to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) and the cards to support him in the coming election. He said the report by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the rate of collection of PVC by registered voters in the state was low was not encouraging, noting that PVC remains the power of the re-electorate to ensure continuity of administration and called on the people to obtain their cards and vote for him on the election day. In his remarks, the Senate Spokesperson, Senator Ajibola Bashiru,who was the Father of Day, said the government would always encourage and support small-scale industries. Bashiru, representing the All Progressive Congress, Osun Central at the Senate, also appealed to members of the association to support the re-election of the governor in July 16 governorship election in the state. In his remarks, the Chairman of the association, Deacon Sunday Obidokun, said that the association was ready to partner with the government to reduce the unemployment rate in the state. Obidokun, however, appealed to the government to assist members of the association with soft loans and assured them that they were ready to support Oyetola’s re-election.