The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has launched the revised INEC Gender Policy (IGP) as it presses for parity and inclusivness in the coming general election. The Gender Policy which was first developed in 2014, guided by the National Gender Policy (2006) and other Regional and International Instruments to which Nigeria is a signatory, has a provision for review every five years. Speaking at a Public Presentation Tuesday in Abuja, organised with support from the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES), Professor Mahmood Yakuku, Chairman of APC declared that the launch of the revised Gender Policy is a milestone achievement which will strengthen the Commission’s capacity to engage stakeholders to take on broad gender-sensitive issues in their mainstream operational and electoral plans and actions . -Advertisement- Professor Yakubu commended the painstaking efforts from within and outside the Commission put towards developing the revised document . He said; “today’s public presentation of the INEC Gender Policy (2021-2026), is a celebration of yet another successful outcome of intensive and extensive engagements with our stakeholders which comprises political parties, MDAs, development partners, gender-focused CSOs and other leading gender experts to review, validate and recalibrate INEC Gender Policy guided by international best practices for a sustainable implementation for greater women participation as aspirants, candidates, electorate, observers and personnel in the electoral process”. Harping on the premium placed on Gender mainstreaming and deliberate steps taken to work the talk, Professor Yakubu recalled that the Commission in March, 2021 created the Gender and Inclusivity Department. This decision according to him “was carefully taken by the Commission to give a special focus to electoral equity, fairness and inclusion, especially the universally recognised rights of the disadvantaged groups, including women to participate in the electoral space on equal basis by structurally addressing the impediments that hinder their effective participation”. He continued “Strategically put, with a Gender and Inclusivity Department established and a revised policy tool for intervention put in place for another five years show the Commission’s unrelenting commitment on electoral inclusion. “This policy outlook for seamless interface on gender sensitive issues on the electoral process in the country could not have been more reassuring, even as the nation is gearing towards another General Election and off- season elections”, he added. In a Keynote Address, National Commissioner and Chairman of Legal Drafting and Litigation Committee, May Agbamuche-Mbu, explained that the Policy which is a living document is expected to foster gender balance in the Commission and to stimulate stakeholders in the electoral process to do the same. She said “ It was revised to codify the Commission’s gender sensitive actions for sustainable implementation”.