Mohammed Bello-Koko, the Managing Director of Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), speaks to Reporters shortly after his visit last week to Warri Port in Delta State, where he expressed optimism in recovering NPA landed properties, strengthening Inter Agency collaboration and rebuilding of shipping lines’ and importers’ confidence in the nation’s Port system. ANDREW UTULU brings the report for Daily Independent. Excerpts: You just went round Warri Port, met with the monarch and stakeholders. Give us an overview of the underlying objective and your strategy to make it work. We are always committed to make all Nigerian ports work optimally by providing the necessary services and equipment; whether it is tugboat or any other thing. Based on that, we gave out a third party contract which I have to review, because it is now becoming quite difficult for them to operate. -Advertisement- Warri has multiple locations, so it’s not just the port itself; we have activities around Oghara, Koko, Sapele and many others. There are so many Jetties around here too. We have seen opportunities here, if we can improve the draught of the channel. But, before we do that, we need to solve the issue of the breakwaters, which collapsed about ten years ago. Relevant studies have been conducted, and we are now at the design stage of the breakwaters. It is either we reconstruct the current one, or go ahead and relocate it and build a new one. It is only by doing that, that we can stop siltation into the channel and reduce the incidences of vessels going aground. After doing that, we now look at other problems; there is a pipe belonging to the NNPC. If they can bury the pipe deeper, then we will be able to dredge the channel deeper and bring in bigger vessels. Warri can actually serve as a hub for activities in the south-south, and even some of the commercial centers in the south-east. POLL There are also other opportunities in town for the development of maritime logistics along the channel, which is why I felt we should pay special interest to that. You know there are issues with the draft limitations of the quay walls, and then the distance of the fairway buoys to the port itself, which is about 107km, so that is a bit of a challenge. There seems to be encroachment on NPA or government properties under NPA’s watch. How do you hope to address this? Yes, so we observed a lot of encroachment. Even on the path leading to the port, there are lots of makeshift structures, and people have even built houses, and we believe that those lands have commercial value, so we need to take possession. But if you drive away squatters and you don’t put those lands to use, that means you haven’t taken full possession. They’re so large and probably too expensive to finance, so the best thing to do is to sit down and think of what commercial values they have. Some of the lands are not that close to water, so we have developed a path that is near water, and the rear of it that doesn’t have access to water has been lying there fallow. The best thing to do is to think of what commercial activity to use it for; do we sell them and generate revenue for the government, or do we use them commercially for construction of houses or offices? Also, we have a lot of court cases against encroachers, and I’ve asked that we should call each and every one of them for out-of-court settlements. Some of the cases have been there for ten years, and it doesn’t really make sense; all parties are losing, and it’s about time we sit down and start negotiating so that those lands can be put to use. We heard you talk about staff welfare. Give us an insight into how you hope to pursue this? I believe that happy staff means higher productivity. Over time, there have been agitations for improvement of staff welfare, especially relating to their salaries, and we have written to the supervising ministry, and the Honorable Minister of Transport has approved that our request should go through the Salaries and Wages Commission. We have submitted the application, and given them proof that we are able to finance any increase in staff salaries and allowances. We have also shown them increase in our revenue generation in the last ten years, and our increasing contribution to consolidated revenue fund. The last time staff salaries were increased was over fifteen years ago, and with inflation, you can see what is going on. There have been a few amendments to a few allowances, but it’s not that much and we need to focus on increased salary. The second thing is in terms of the office environment. You saw the Delta ports, the administrative office has been in disrepair for too long. A contract was awarded to carry out a logistics rehabilitation of that place to give them a better working environment. By the time you bring in better working tools, the right I.T., and so on, you have speedy processing of whatever it is we’re doing. Another thing that relates to the issue of staff welfare is transportation; the procurement process is always tedious and difficult, but I can assure you that we will soon get approvals to get more staff buses and operational vessels also. I visited the clinic; we have clinics in all the ports, and they’re supposed to be well equipped to deal with any emergency. We have been equipping them, but we have seen the need to increase their sizes and we’re also putting in equipment in the labs.