The Federal Government said on Tuesday that with the coming up of affordable world class health facilities, Nigeria will soon put an end to between $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion (N663 billion) being spent on medical tourism annually. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said this in Lagos at a media tour of Duchess International Hospital, a 100-bed state-of-the-art multi-specialist healthcare facility. The private sector-owned purpose-built hospital was constructed through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), with financial support from the Bank of Industry (BoI). -Advertisement- Speaking after a tour of the hospital, the minister said with more world class healthcare facilities like Duchess Hospital coming on stream, Nigeria is set become a destination for medical tourists. He said the country would soon welcome foreign patients and medical personnel on its shores rather than having its citizens travel yearly and spending between $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion for medical tourism. “We as a country will also conserve our foreign reserves while earning foreign exchange, we will begin to reverse the brain drain in the health sector; create jobs and provide affordable and standard healthcare for our people. “Of course, facilities like Duchess International are veritable tools for job creation, in addition to attracting medical tourists from across the world. “It’s a new dawn for the health sector and we are proud of what Duchess and other healthcare facilities are doing in bringing about this new dawn,” he said. Mohammed noted that although, the facility was private- sector driven, the Federal Government provided the enabling environment and funding for its realisation. POLL He recalled that in the wake of COVID-19, the CBN set up the N100 billion Healthcare Sector Intervention Fund, which was later expanded to N200 billion. He said the intervention fund was to provide credit support for the healthcare sector through long-term, low-cost financing. “You are also aware of the Federal Government’s Intervention in the Healthcare Sector through the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). “The NSIA has invested a total of $22.5 million in two diagnostic centres in Kano and Umuahia ($5.5 million each) and the NSIA-LUTH Cancer Centre in Lagos ($11.5 million). The NSIA is also committed to building a new quaternary hospital in Abuja. “The essence of these financial interventions and projects in the critical healthcare sector is to fast-track the evolvement of world class healthcare facilities like this Duchess International Hospital.”