LAGOS – The Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA 2022) has called for nominations from the public on the newly introduced award category, the Most Outstanding Oncology Centre of the Year. Oncology is a branch of medicine that deals with the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer. In a statement signed by Moses Braimah, Director, Marketing, Communication and Strategy, NHEA stated that the call includes categories under the Special Recognition and Special Awards such as, Most Responsive COVID-19 Testing Company of the Year and Most Outstanding COVID -19 Consumables Manufacturer of the Year (Indigenous). Others are State with the Highest Percentage of COVID–19 Vaccinated Persons, Most Outstanding Genomic Laboratory of the Year and State Government Health Insurance Scheme of the Year. -Advertisement- Speaking on this, Dr. Shola Alabi, NHEA Project Coordinator says, “The dynamics of activities in the health sector in the last two to three years has made the new introductions possible this year following careful review and suggestions.” Furthermore, he called on the public to visit the site, www.nigeriahealthcareawards.com.ng/online-nominations-form/ to nominate. Nomination is expected to close on May 22, 2022. The theme for NHEA 2022 is Innovative Healthcare in the Era of Change. For information regarding the entry criteria required for nomination, Vivian Alkali, NHEA Executive Secretary encourages interested persons to visit the award site. Alkali, however, highlighted some of the criteria. According to her, for an Oncology facility to be qualified for nomination, it should be established and providing services for more than 12 months; accredited by relevant federal and state health authorities.It should also providing two of either Medical, Radiological or Surgical oncology services to the public; high patient volume above 100 patients per month and externally assessed quality of patient delivery. In addition, the facility must possess an international certification of clinical quality and have an established and functioning palliative care as well as end of life care system. POLL While for State Government Health Insurance Scheme; this nomination is open to State Governments and the Federal Capital Territory of the Federal Republic of Nigeria that operate a programme seen to be committed to the triad of Universal health; and coverage that reduces the amount of out-of-pocket spending. In addition, the number of new enrollees or percentage increase of new enrollees annually; new health financing packages and models; geographic spread of enrollees within the state; and the percentage number of citizens registered with the state health insurance programme; etc. The event which comes up on June 24, 2022 at Eko Hotel and Suites in Lagos is supported by organisations such as; the Federal Ministry of Health, Nigeria Medical Association, Association of General Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria, Healthcare Federation of Nigeria, and PharmAccess Foundation. NHEA is organised by Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in collaboration with Anadach Group, USA.