The Office of the Head of Civ­il Service of the Federation (OHCSF) has clarified the posi­tion of the government on the controversial issue of civil ser­vants’ participation in partisan politics vis-à-vis the Supreme Court ruling on the matter. In a memo to various offic­es and parastatals, the Head of the Civil Service of the Feder­ation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan explained that there has not been any change or alteration by any court on the Public Service Rule (PSR) 030422 and 030423. Dr. Yemi-Esan in the memo titled “Clarification on The Provision of Public Service Rule (PSR) Vis-à-vis the Su­preme Court Judgement As It Relates to Participation of Civil Servants In Partisan Pol­itics,” said her office has been inundated with requests for the clarification on the provision of the PSR vis-à-vis the Supreme Court judgment as it relates to the matter. -Advertisement- As a result, she said it has become necessary to draw the attention of the civil servants to the legal opinion of the At­torney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami on the matter, which states that “neither the 1999 constitution nor the Supreme Court has au­thorised civil servant to engage in partisan politics.” She said that, according to the Minister, the provisions of rules 030422 and 030423 of the public service rule (2008 edition) were not nullified by the Supreme Court hence they remain in force and binding on all civil servants seeking to par­ticipate in nomination exercise or party primaries. Dr. Yemi-Esan, therefore, advised all government insti­tutions and parastatals to draw the attention of civil servants and to enforce the public ser­vice rules 030422 and 030423 of the (2008 edition) and never at any time did the Supreme Court ruling on INEC Vs Musa set aside or nullify these provi­sions, hence they must comply. Accordingly and in the overall best interest of neu­trality, harmony, integrity and development of Nigerian civil service, the Head of Ser­vice strongly advised all civil servants to be guided by the provisions of PSR and the le­gal opinion of the Minister of Justice.