LAGOS – Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel, who is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has promised to rescue and restore confidence in the country, if voted into power. He made this promise when he visited former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo at his Abeokuta residence, where he formally informed the elder statesman of his ambition to run for the presidency. During the visit, who is part of the ongoing consultation of strategic stakeholders in the country, Governor Emmanuel informed the former president that he was ready to rescue and restore Nigeria, having had sufficient private and public sector experience, with remarkable results to show for it. -Advertisement- He posited that a focused, sincere and capable leadership can solve the major issues plaguing Nigeria and assured Chief Obasanjo that, if given the opportunity, he would take practical steps to boost the economy and return Nigeria to her glory days. Responding, Chief Obasanjo appreciated the presidential aspirant for the show of respect in coming to inform him of his aspiration. Obasanjo said: “Knowing you the way I do and the knowledge that you possess, which you have expressed in your brief speech, I have no doubt that if you have the opportunity, you will fix the economy of Nigeria. “Our country is complex but not a complicated country to govern. It needs the application of honesty, fairness, and justice. “I know that you are a man of conscience who fears God and will apply these guiding principles in your leadership. POLL “You have shown what you can do for Nigeria by what you have done in your state. It is, therefore, logical that when the opportunity presents itself, you will bring what you have done in your state to bear on the larger community. “Your presidential bid is a fair and legitimate thing to ask for,“ he added. The presidential aspirant was accompanied on the trip by a member of the National Executive Committee of the PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo, two members of the House of Representatives, Hon. Pat Ifon and Nsikak Ekong and Comrade Ini Ememobong, the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Information and Strategy.