KANO – Nigerian Youth Alliance on Thursday in Kano rose from its stakeholders’ meeting to endorse the Jigawa State governor, Muhammad Badaru Abubakar to succeed President Buhari in the 2023 General election. The National leader of the pan Nigerian Youth group, Alhaji Musa Muhammad Bauchi said the performance of the governor has no boundary, adding that the outgoing governor of Jigawa state impacted positively various fields of human endeavours since his inception as the Jigawa state governor in 2015. The group resolved to lure Mr. Badaru Abubakar to join the race without let or hindrance, stressing that his record of performance would be rewarded by the electorates. -Advertisement- The Youths Group said, ” We feel if given the mandate to serve as President of this Country, Badaru would bring rapid socioeconomics developments across the nation.” Enumerating some of the practical developmental projects brought about by his stewardship such as the construction of 348 new primary schools, while upgrading 142 junior secondary schools. He said Governor Badaru has Employed 1, 393 qualified teachers as well as purchased 243 Motorcycles for School inspection. The Youths leader said governor Badaru Abubakar is making Jigawa the number one producer of Sesame in Nigeria and the top producer of Rice and Hibiscus in Nigeria through Cluster farming. Through various empowerment programs, he uplifted more than 150,000 people out of poverty. Bauchi said it was governor Badaru who also rebranded Jigawa state with about 3,000 Km road network around Jigawa state. POLL ” He came up with various programs that provide the most reliable health, portable water, sanitation, and more.In managing the finance of Jigawa, “ Governor Badaru has ensured optimal utilization of Public Funds he was named ‘Baba Mai Calculator’ due to his pragmatic way of handling the meagre resources in the coffers of government. He was a Chairman of reconciliation, where he harmonize the differences lingering in APC which lead to peace and prosperity. These among others necessitated the formation of the Nigeria Youth Alliance for Badaru 2023.