**Party Set To Shock Nay Sayers’ **Condemns Strike Action By ASUU **Wants Women To Stand Up And Be Counted -Advertisement- ABUJA – The New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) has urged Nigerians not to be discouraged by the controversy surrounding the alleged expression of interest to contest the Presidential elections, by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefele. National Chairman of the NNPP, Professor Rufai Alkali, at a media briefing at the party Secretariat in Abuja, said that though Emefele’s alleged political interest while in office casts a dark shadow on the country’s electoral process, “however, the credibility of the elections depends on Nigerians.” There has been public outcry following talleged interest by the CBN Governor to run for the position of the President of the country in the 2023 elections. Stakeholders insists that it could compromise the credibility of the polls as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) warehouses sensitive election materials at the CBN. But the NNPP National Chairman insists that the electoral body has made significant changes to the process, thereby making it more foolproof. POLL This is even as he decried that the federal government has “broken all bridges of fraternity holding Nigerians together”; adding that while it is open to persons from other political parties, it is however not a place of refuge for irredentists. While calling on women to stand up to be counted, the opposition party called on the government and other stakeholders to ensure the end of the ongoing strike action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). “No country in the world can survive its universities been closed for this long,” he stressed. Professor Rufai also warned that the party is set to shock larger political parties who wish to underrate it in the elections. He said that the NNPP has been repositioned to guarantee a wider space for political participation by more Nigerians. “We the NNPP as social Democrats are desirous of opening the political space for all Nigerians. Thus that was precisely why in order to encourage the youths, women and people living with disabilities, the party announced zero Kobo for the purchase of the Expression of Interest Form and a 50% discount for the Nomination Form. “This is a complete departure from those plutocrats who are asking Nigerians to cough out over N100 million just to purchase a piece of paper whose value is no better than the value of the paper upon which the humongous amount was written. According to him, when voted into power, NNPP “would do its best to ensure the development of Nigeria to a higher level on all levels.” This is as he lamented that the country has been split along various lines by the policies of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led federal government. On insecurity, Professor Rufai added; “Today, it is difficult to count the number of persons being held captive in various forests across the country with no tangible visible efforts to rescue the traumatized victims some of whom have spent more than a year in captivity. “There is also no tangible visible efforts to restore normalcy along the highways and communities across the country. Even lives of our soldiers, the police and other security personnel are not spared this tragedy. “Only recently, the bizarre attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train and the kidnap of innocent passengers in broad day light has left Nigerians in great panic, tension and uncertainty. The most recent ugly incident was the dastardly murder of 6 soldiers in Taraba state. Nigerians are tired and are therefore looking for a better option. Happily, the New Nigeria People’s Party is that new option that Nigerians have been yearning and waiting for.” While promising an inclusive government, the party reiterated that “NNPP is the only party in Nigeria that has offered the youths less than 35 years of age fifty percent discount for the purchase of nomination forms. This has led to an upsurge of youths to the party and the party is equal to the task as it has put in place all measures to avoid rancour during the forthcoming Primary election. In the same vein, we have started the process of rebuilding our structures across country. As I stated earlier, we started from the wards to the Local Governments, to States, to the Zones and finally at the national level. We now have fresh ward structures all over the country.” The party further revealed that it has conducted ward congresses in all the local government areas across the country, with local government congresses; state congress and national convention conducted on March 30th.