A group, Epe Progressive In­digene for Good Governance (EPIGG), has thrown span­ners at the fifth term bid of a Lagos Assembly member for Epe Constituency I, Hon. Abiodun Mustainu Tobun, claiming that he has not done enough for the people of the constituency to merit the fifth term and that the constituency is made up of brilliant, vibrant and intel­ligent leaders to reposition the constituency for the better. Speaking with journal­ists at a rally held in Epe Local Government Area of Lagos State, coordinator of the group, Mr. Olayemi Orunbon, said Epe Constit­uency I is made up of five wards, which only a ward had been in the saddle for past 16 years, saying other wards had been marginal­ised for the position. And worried by the po­litical developments in the area, the Epe Progressive In­digene for Good Governance said the people of the con­stituency would vehemently resist any attempt to impose Tobun on them, saying he had spent enough of his life in the Lagos Assembly com­plex, having spent fifteen years now. -Advertisement- They said Tobun had been a major campaigner against even second term ambition of others and could not turn around to start scheming for a fifth term to represent them in the state House of Assembly, noting that To­bun was opposed to former speaker of the State Assem­bly, Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji’s third term bid, which forced Ikuforiji to represent Ikeja Constituency 1, in his third term agenda. The group insisted that “the people of Epe Constit­uency I, deserve a resource­ful, humble and very acces­sible representative in the House of Assembly in 2023, but not a Tobun. “We strongly advise the leaders and people of Epe Constituency I to desist from the evil plot of sponsoring and supporting the incum­bent, Hon. Abiodun Mus­tainu Tobun, for a fifth term. “Fifth term is against the noble tradition of Epe Constituency, Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji did two terms (eight years) and handed over to you (Abiodun Mus­tainu Tobun), who is now serving a fourth term, but your fifth term will be re­sisted by the people of the constituency.”