BENIN – The Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Edo State Council has condemned in its entirety, the shut down without notice of gas supply to the Ossiomo Power Plant in Ologbo, near Benin City, Edo state by the management of the Nigeria Gas Marketing Company, NGMC, a subsidiary of the NNPC. Comrade Festus Alenkhe, Chairman of the Edo state council of NUJ, while condemning the action which he described as unwanted told newsmen that there are moves by some interest groups to frustrate Edo State government’s efforts to boost socio-economic activities in Edo State through the uninterrupted power supply. “This move by the government, no doubt, has boosted and continued to boost social economic activities in the state, with many private initiatives and investors seeking to establish their presence in Edo state. -Advertisement- “We heard that some of the blame are being credited to the Nigeria Gas Marketing Company, NGMC, which supplies gas to the Ossiomo Power Company with the collaboration of some officials of Electricity Distribution Company. “We are still investigating to unravel those responsible for the sudden shut down of the power plant . “We condemn in its entirety this move to frustrate the Obaseki led government’s effort to make life more meaningful for people in the state. The sudden shut down is wickedness, anti-progressive, anti-development and anti-people. “We call on the relevant stakeholders and all lovers of every good thing to intervene and call to order, all those responsible for this ungodly act in the interest of the people of Edo State. “It would be recalled that through a Public Private Partnership, PPP arrangement, Edo State government secured approval for power supply through Ossiomo Power Plant to provide electricity to government offices, ministries, departments, agencies and other public service establishments. POLL “However, let it be on record that the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Edo State Council is a beneficiary of the Ossiomo Power Supply and journalists in Edo State can now send their reports from the Press Center with ease due to regular power supply, courtesy of Ossiomo Power Plant”, he said.