BENIN – Mr Dennis Idahosa was unanimously endorsed for a second term in office after declaring his intention to return to the Green Chamber to members of his Ovia Federal Constituency. The declaration which took place at Iguobazuwa in a carnival-like rally, saw his constituents and members and leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) fully declaring their support for Idahosa’s re-election bid. The chairmen of the APC in Ovia South West and Ovia North East, Messrs Emmanuel Ogbomo and Oscar Aghedo respectively, particularly commended the lawmaker for his constant interaction with members of his constituents since he assumed office in 2019. -Advertisement- The Chairmen both noted that the bottom-top approach that the lawmaker adopted in tackling challenges in the area has helped changed the menace of under-representation the people have suffered in time past. They further noted that Idahosa has within a short time attracted unprecedented government presence to the area and also provided empowerment opportunities to the people. “Not that we have not had representatives before, but you have simply made the difference with your approach in dealing with decades of abandonment we have suffered before now. “While we commend you for all this and many more you plan to do, I must join force with the people in declaring total support for your reelection,” Ogbomo stated. On his part, Aghedo said history will not be kind to them if they fail to align themselves to the wishes of the people. POLL According to him, “We are not just speaking as party members here, but aligning ourselves to what the people have concluded, to send you back to Abuja.” Idahosa who used the opportunity to reel out his achievements said he has good stories to tell when the campaign kicks off. According to him, “As at the last count, we have 71 projects spread across the 23 wards that make up the constituency, which includes the construction of 21 schools, amongst others. “I have 14 motions and 4 bills to my credit. These motions and bills are impactful ones that add value to our very existence as a people, State and country as a whole. “I really want to appreciate the good people of Ovia for their love, support and prayers. “Of a truth, we have good stories to tell. I promise to do more for my people, I won’t rest until we get the Ovia of our dream.”