McColl’s said in a statement this afternoon (Friday): “In order to protect creditors, preserve the future of the business, and to protect the interests of employees, the board was regrettably, therefore, left with no choice other than to place the Company in administration.” A  spokesperson for Morrisons said: “We put forward a proposal that would have avoided today’s announcement that McColl’s is being put into administration, kept the vast majority of jobs and stores safe, as well as fully protecting pensioners and lenders. “For thousands of hardworking people and pensioners, this is a very disappointing, damaging, and unnecessary outcome.” -Advertisement- Accountants PriceWaterhouseCoopers have been appointed as administrators, “in the expectation that they intend to implement a sale of the business to a third-party purchaser as soon as possible”. McColl’s said earlier this week that it would not be able to file its annual accounts in time and was likely to have to suspend its shares.Earlier today, it was revealed that Morrisons, which has been working with McColl’s on the roll-out of its Morrisons Daily convenience offer, was trying to put in place a last-minute package to prevent McColl’s collapse. But McColl’s said this afternoon this had not been enough to satisfy its backers. “The company’s senior lenders have this morning declined to further extend the waiver of the company’s banking covenants, which has now expired.“Whilst the constructive discussions with the company’s key wholesale supplier to find a solution with them to the company’s funding issues and create a stable platform going forward had made significant progress, the lenders made clear that they were not satisfied that such discussions would reach an outcome acceptable to them.” The group has asked for the listing of its ordinary shares to be suspended with immediate effect.Simon Underwood, a business recovery partner at accountancy firm Menzies, commented: “A Morrisons rescue deal was the lifeline that McColl’s needed to save it from falling into administration, which comes as a massive blow to both the retail sector and the 16,000 employees who could now find themselves out of work. POLL “A takeover would have been a prime opportunity for Morrisons to expand its footprint in the grocery marketplace and strengthen its competitive advantage.“It is still possible that Morrisons will buy some or all of the McColl’s business from the administrators and this is a space to watch closely over the next couple of weeks. “With the UK already feeling the strain of the cost-of-living crisis, this exposure to job losses could not have come at a worse time.“It appears higher costs may have played a part in McColl’s collapse, with many consumers looking to avoid the higher prices that are often associated with convenience shops. “The rise of grocery delivery services, and post-pandemic fallout, will also have played a role in the retailer’s financial struggles.”