National Leader of All Progressives Congress(APC) and of the prominent presidential aspirant on the platform of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has said the solution to the nation’s socio-economic and political challenges is an intellectually sound president with great ideas. He stated this on Thursday in the state Governor’s Office, Alagbaka, Akure, the Ondo State capital, while soliciting g for support of delegates of the party of ahead of the party’s convention holding on Sunday. Tinubu, who gave himself a clean bill of health, said among all persons who had shown interest in succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari, he’s the most capable and experienced for the job. -Advertisement- Charging the delegates to do check on his pedigree, he alluded to the feat he attained in Lagos when he held forth as governor of the state for eight years in terms of development and revenue generation. According to him, “I am not running for the presidency because I need money, that was in the past, but I am running for the love I have for this country, for the love I have for my people and my commitment for development and value for education. “I am not looking for a wrestling job, I am not going to the presidency to fight Anthony Joshua. I’m not running to compete with Ronaldo. All I am going to use is my brain. I am sure, I am a better thinker, I am a better doer. You, delegates should distinguish us like kerosene on top of the water. “I, Bola Tinubu, i am a runner. Go to Lagos State, I built a state of great value for Lagos, it is a reference point. I will rebuild Nigeria, I will reunite Nigeria, I will develop Nigeria. I will use our diversity for our prosperity. Join me in an effort to reunite Nigeria. You will see prosperity, and performance. I know I can do it. “The truth is we are Nigerians and we hold that greenback passport and we should be proud of it. Yes, it is difficult right now. This is the democracy that we choose. I told Akeredolu that hope is around the corner and ever since he never looked back. In Ondo State, you have bitumen. You need a Federal Government that will put research and development in place and make it a commercial business revenue for Ondo State. POLL “A seaport is very capital intensive matter. Unfortunately, the country has no long term money, except for short-term. So, we have to find investors and partners to get into it and build a deep seaport for Ondo State. All we need is a can-do attitude, a  leader who thinks and acts.” Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredol, in his comment, reiterated that the presidency must come from the Southern part of the country, disclosing that no candidate would be endorsed in the Sunday party’s presidential primary. “We have said it that presidency must come to the south. If we are talking about restructuring, we are not saying the country would be divided. Nigeria should be paramount in our hearts,” he said. Akeredolu charged all delegates to do background checks on each aspirant and the best, describing Tinubu as an aspirant with great capacity,