ABUJA – The Federal Government through the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation has trained and graduated 118 Federal Civil Servants under its Leadership Enhancement and Development Programme (LEAP-P). Speaking on Tuesday at the graduation ceremony of the first batch of the programme in Abuja, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, said the programme is a key component of the first pillar of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP) 2021 – 2025 which is Capability Building and Talent Management. Yemi-Esan explained that the rigorous training programmes which the 118 officers were subjected to, was “unprecedented in the annals of capacity building in the civil service and is truly career transforming and life changing.” -Advertisement- She pointed out that priority of the initiative was geared towards addressing the need to strengthen and reinvigorate the civil service workforce through well-structured and sustainable capacity building programmes. She stated that a total of 43 training modules, comprising 17 generic and 26 sectoral modules were developedand taught to the participants, adding that the modules cut across the basic training needs of civil servants and knowledge of other sectors outside the Public Service. The aim, according to her, was to expose participants to a broad spectrum of knowledge as future leaders. Giving the background of the training programme, Yemi-Esan said: “It would be recalled that the journey in our quest to identify a crop of officers for the Leadership Enhancement and Development Programme (LEAD-P) fully commenced in September 2020 with the first selection examination following the issuance of the call circular for online applications. “This was followed by the second and third Examinations, and the final stage of oral interviews were held at the Public Service Institute of Nigeria (PSIN) on 15th April 2021, where 169 candidates participated and 123 candidates cutting across various professions emerged. POLL “LEAD-P has the goal of cultivating 100 officers on Salary Grade Levels 10 -14 annually as the next generation of leaders in the Federal Civil Service.” In his keynote address, Mr. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, said the training programme has provided participants with requisite skills required to perform effectively in the 21st public service, where governance is measured by the quality of its service delivery. Mustapha observed that leadership development for effective succession planning, has over the years, remained the bane of the civil service. He therefore, stressed that public servants must have the capacity to support fast-moving political agenda, manage and transform vast public organisations, motivate and inspire their workforce as well as be trusted partners to citizens’ and an ever-growing list of development partners and stakeholders. He noted that Nigeria’s problem is not lack of good plans or policies but rather, dearth of capacity or will to implement LEAP-P and other manpower development initiatives. Mustapha therefore,charged participants to play critical role in mentoring their subordinates, urging them to make themselves available for service and be good ambassadors of LEAP-P and the Nigerian public service in general.