The Commissioner of Banjul Accord Group Accident Investigation Agency (BAGAIA), Engr. Charles Erhueh, has clarified that the Regional Accident Investigation Organisation (RAIO) ,does not charge for investigating accidents it is called on to probe, saying this negates its statutes of formation. He also lamented the paucity of funds due to the refusal of members to remit their yearly subscription as one of the major challenges confronting the growth of the organization. Speaking at the Erhueh International Accident Investigation Forum, held at the Singapore Aviation Academy, recently Erhueh explained that the agency was set up by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) not as a revenue generating agency, but a safety inclined one. -Advertisement- He, however,, said that the state of occurrence would be responsible for mere cost of logistics once RAIO is invited to conduct investigations on any aircraft accident. He said: “No, this is a public service. BAGAIA is not formed to charge countries they help investigate accidents. For example the accident involving Cavok Airlines CVK 7087 AN-74TK-100 Aircraft registered Ur-CKC, which occurred at Sao Tome International Airport in 2017 and delegated to BAGAIA even though it was not a member, but BAGAIA responded to that investigation in collaboration with the Nigeria Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) without any payment from Sao Tome and the investigation has been concluded and released. Besides, the Commissioner emphasised that it is the responsibility of the state of occurrence to release the final accident report of any investigation delegated to BAGAIA and cited Sao Tome as an example. However, he stated that as at the time of the conclusion of the accident report, Sao Tome had no independent agency responsible for investigation and AIB-NIGERIA later published the report on its website as BAGAIA at that time too, had no functional website. He added: “But, Currently BAGAIA has its own website and kudos to AIB-NIGERIA that designed and funded the development of the BAGAIA website that is currently operational.” POLL Speaking further during his presentation, the BAGAIA Commissioner stressed the importance of training, stating that in collaboration with partners like Instituto de Prevencao a Investigacao de Acidentes Aeronauticos e Maritimos (IPIAAM), the agency had trained no fewer than 26 participants in a bid to groom a generation that would take over from the experienced, but aging workforce. He also said a safety workshop was organised with the cooperation of IPIAAM, African Union (AU) and the European Union (EU) under the EU – Aviation Safety for Africa ( EU-ASA) where 65 participants were trained from various regions. At the session was Professor Graham Braithwaite, the Director of Transport Systems, Professor of Safety & Accident Investigation from Cranfield University who spoke on ‘New Aerospace Technology Challenges for Investigators. He said: “There is a lot of change coming and I want to talk about what some of us see from a research and development point of view.”