BAUCHI – No fewer than 43 aggrieved state House of Assembly aspirants under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bauchi State have expressed dissatisfaction with the conduct of the primary election, calling on the party’s National working Committee (NWC) to order fresh elections in 11 constituencies in the state to elect delegates. Addressing a press conference at the Press Centre of the Bauchi State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), the aggrieved aspirants alleged that the local government delegates who participated in the primary election were being compromised. They called on the party’s NWC to as a matter of urgency, order a fresh election of the LGA delegates or allow for a direct primary election. -Advertisement- The Spokesperson of the aggrieved contestants, Saleh A Umar Nabayi, stated that the party gave it’s serving members in the state House of Assembly automatic tickets despite the fact that they (aggrieved aspirants) purchased expression of interest and nomination forms. According to him, none of them were informed of this before the purchased the forms to contest for seats in the state House of Assembly “Before you are about forty-three loyal party members of the APC who lawfully purchased nomination/expression of interest forms to contest for various state House of Assembly seats” “We all obtained forms as required by the constitution and followed all the instructions given by our leaders. We canvassed for support across our constituencies and patiently waited for the day of primary election” “We are here before you to express to the National Working Committee and the entire world about our grievances, particularly concerning our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC Bauchi State). You will recall that the State Assembly primary election has been done but we believe that it has not been concluded” POLL “Our party did not inform any aspirant that any of the serving members will be given an automatic ticket. We all obtained forms as required by the constitution and followed all the instructions given by our leaders. We canvassed for support across our constituencies and patiently waited for the day of primary election,” Nabayi said. According to him, the primary election which was supposed to hold Thursday last week could not hold due to the late arrival of electoral materials, adding that they were surprised to be informed by the electoral committee on Friday that all the state constituencies having serving lawmakers have been given automatic tickets and as such there won’t be elections in those constituencies.