Wild Jubilation erupted as the serving Oyo state House of Assembly Lawmaker representing Lagelu state constituency, Honourable Akintunde Olajide Emmanuel emerged as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 general election. The lawmaker who had earlier emerged as the party’s consensus candidate during the screening of aspirants by Ambassador Taofeeq Arapaja led a committee of the PDP was seen amongst large PDP members and supporters in a celebration mood. Some of the PDP Stakeholders as well as members of the party in Lagelu Local Government who spoke with newsmen affirmed that the primary election was a confirmation through the democratic process of the earlier position when the lawmaker emerged as the party’s consensus candidate. -Advertisement- The PDP Primary in Lagelu Local Government which was held at the Iyana-offa headquarters of the council area of Ibadan on Sunday (today) saw a large number of party faithful and supporters trooped out to show what has been described as a massive show of support to the incumbent lawmaker, Hon. Akintunde. AKT as he is popularly known polled a total vote of 40 to defeat his co-aspirant, Obideji Babadeji who had zero vote. In his brief remarks shortly after the exercise, Hon. Akintunde who will be the PDP candidate at the 2023 general election, expressed his profound gratitude to the Governor of Oyo state who according to him is more than just a political leader. Describing Makinde as his father figure in politics, AKT said his emergence as the party’s consensus candidate could not have been possible without the opportunity given him by the Governor and the entire PDP family in Lagelu Local Government. The lawmaker also expressed his gratitude to the entire leadership of the party as well as party faithfuls and his supporters for their relentless support vowing not to disappoint them. POLL Acknowledging that the primary exercise is the first huddle towards becoming a two term state assembly lawmaker, Honourable Akintunde said PDP must continue to remain one big political family. He called on other contenders to put the primary behind them and join hands with the party in order to go into the election with a united front stressing that the time for everyone to be on the same page is now. “My special gratitude goes to our leader and father, His Excellency, Governor Seyi Makinde for his fatherly role in all of this because without him and the good people of Lagelu, I won’t even be here to represent our great party in the first place. “The exercise went very well and smoothly as you can also see. Our people have affirmed in unison that come 2023 PDP shall sweep most if not all elective seat in the state and the federal level. “I’m very exhausted for now my brother, I just want to express my sincere appreciation to the Governor who has continued to be the pathfinder of the present generation. I can assure you it can only get better with passage of time.” Hon. Akintunde said.