LAGOS – Leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Chief Ralph Uwazuruike, on Saturday, led thousands of South East youths in a solidarity march in support of the candidacy of the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, in the 2023 presidential election. The youths, who started the procession from the MASSOB leader’s House in Owerri, marched through the streets, carrying different placards, with inscriptions such as “Power to the Youths, Support Yahaya Bello”, “Youths Can Also Lead”, and “Yahaya Bello for the Youths”, among others. They made it clear that the only solution to Nigeria’s political quagmire was for power to go to the youths. According to them, in this regard, Governor Bello is the right fit for the position of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Recall that Bello picked his Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the All Progressives Congress national secretarial on Wednesday. Bello, who was the first to pay the N100 required for the forms, was received by a mammoth crowd of party faithful and support groups from across the country, who have been urging him to run for President. Uwazuruike, who advised Nigerians and party leaders to shun zoning, said it had no place in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He also said his MASSOB/ BIM would support Governor Bello to become the next president of Nigeria because he had the leadership qualities to lead Nigeria effectively. POLL He noted that power should go to the best in the race, adding that the Kogi State Governor was the best for the job. “All Nigerians should rally round the youthful Governor, Yahaya Bello. Today, April 30, 2022 is all about Nigerian youths. We are supporting Yahaya Bello for this and no one else. That he has the capacity to solve the problem of insecurity and a host of others facing the nation is not in doubt. “This is a crucial time in the history of the country. We must give youths a chance, especially one that has demonstrated uncommon capacity, in the person of Yahaya Bello,” he said. Uwazuruike, who is also the Founder of Biafran Independent Movement, said that he does not believe in a president of Igbo extraction, insisting that the contest should be thrown open.