ABUJA – The Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and As­sociated Institutions (NASU) has said its industrial action is still in full force, contrary to speculations that it intended to suspend it soon. Peters Adeyemi, NASU’s general secretary, confirmed the position in a statement on Monday in Abuja, noting that the union would be meeting on Tuesday in the nation’s capital to consult with its members on the state of the strike. He, however, hinted that the Federal Government had begun paying NASU members the arrears of the consequential adjustment of the national minimum wage, saying not all members had received the payment so far. -Advertisement- According to Adeyemi, no other financial commitment made to the unions has been actionized except the conse­quential adjustment of the minimum wage, saying the payment was not enough for the striking workers to sus­pend the ongoing industrial action. His words: “There are sev­en demands which we have gotten the commitment of the government to implement. There are six outstanding items yet to be acted upon. “We cannot be because of the ongoing payment which is yet to be concluded to be talking about suspension of the strike. However, we are consulting with our mem­bers. “A consultation meeting has been scheduled for Tues­day. But it is very naïve and mischievous for anyone to start saying we are planning to suspend the strike. I read in a section of the media that reported that we are planning to suspend the strike on Tues­day. Whoever reports that is a paid agent of the Federal Government. Let me use this opportunity to debunk the report.” While repudiating the report further, Adeyemi re­vealed that NASU cannot take a unilateral decision to suspend a strike that is being prosecuted under the auspic­es of the Joint Action Com­mittee (JAC) of both NASU and the Senior Staff Associa­tion of Nigerian Universities (SSANU). POLL He added: “There are four unions in the universities and inter-university centres that are involved in this struggle. How can any reporter claim that NASU is meeting to sus­pend the strike? There is no way NASU can suspend the strike when SSANU is clam­ouring for an extension of the strike by another one month to allow the government to address our grievances.”