LAGOS  – Beyond trading, cryptocurrency and blockchain technology offer several vistas of opportunities Nigerians can take advantage of to better their lives, Rume Ophi, cryptocurrency and alternative finance expert ha said. Ophi, the founder of CryptoPreacher Blockchain Academy, CPA, stated this over the weekend in Lagos in an interview with journalists. According to him, career prospects as well as other business opportunities beyond HODLing and other associated trading activities in the cryptocurrency ecosystem are springing up across world, stressing that Nigerians, especially the youths could take advantage of them. -Advertisement- Ophi who is also the Co-founder of ThinkCrypto Club, Washington DC USA, further stated: “Many a times, people have reached me to say that they are interested in cryptocurrency and want to make money from it. All they want to learn is how to trade with it. To be fair, I can’t blame them because some years ago when I began my career in the cryptocurrency space, my only focus then was on trading, HODLing and buying as many digital assets as I could discern. “That was years ago. But today, many career paths are in high demand in the crypto market. Rising demand for cryptocurrency has made this space a hot cake. And despite the ban on cryptocurrency trading in Nigeria, there are various career opportunities that presents itself in this market. As the demand for cryptocurrency increases, so too, does the number of cryptocurrency jobs. “Legacy companies continue to embrace cryptocurrencies, which means those organizations will need more experts in the field. Many of these companies are open to working from home from any part of the world-many thanks to COVID-19, and Nigerians can take advantage of this. These companies which include the likes of Apple, Amazon and PayPal — are looking for people to fill cryptocurrency jobs. For example, Walmart is looking to hire a cryptocurrency expert to lead its digital currency strategy.” He emphasised that the Blockchain expertise is the fastest-growing skill according to the latest skills index, adding that it is now one of the hottest in the United States job market.