TEMIDAYO AKINSUYI Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice earlier in the week made a volte face in their respective quests to seek elective positions in the 2023 general elections. While Emefiele wanted to run for the office of President, after three different groups, the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, the Friends of Emefiele and the Emefiele Support Group, purchased Nomination and Expression of Interest forms for him, Malami had wanted to succeed Atiku Bagudu as Kebbi state governor. -Advertisement- While many had claimed the two men, having weighed their options decided to perish their ambitions so as to keep their jobs rather than pursue a dream that is unrealistic, it has been gathered that it was President Muhammadu Buhari who ordered them to return to their duty posts. Earlier, there were reports that President Buhari had directed Emefiele to resign on Monday following calls by many groups demanding his resignation. However, speaking with Daily Independent, a presidency source said President Buhari has asked both Malami and Emefiele to go back to their respective duties. “ Both men won’t resign. As at today, May 15, it is clear that Emefiele is not running. The president has asked him and Malami to go back to their respective duties. It is more like a soft landing for them” Also yesterday, Malami’s media aide, Jubrilu Gwandu issued a statement saying while Malami has not resigned as claimed, he has pulled out of the Kebbi governorship race. POLL “Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami has not resigned. He withdrew his ambition to contest for the 2023 Kebbi State Gubernatorial Elections”. “Malami has the right to choose to voluntarily shelve his gubernatorial ambition. It is a matter of personal conviction and individual right which didn’t violate any law. Right thinking members of the society accord respect to individual’s right to freedom of choice in matters relating to this”. “As individual Nigerian citizens with inalienable fundamental rights, we are not aware of any legally justifiable and reasonable tenable obligations compelling the person of Abubakar Malami, SAN or as an Attorney General of the Federation to do otherwise. The decision is not only a demonstration of altruism and patriotism, but of contentment, self-control, placidity and decisiveness in problem-solving at a time shrouded with confusing and competing stimulus. It is a commendable posture worthy admiration coming from a paragon of virtue”. In a related development, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari should sack of the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emeifele, for his involvement in partisan politics while still in office as head of the apex bank. Sagay in an interview with Daily Independent, said that Emefiele’s desire to contest the 2023 presidency despite his position as CBN governor is abominable and totally unacceptable. He however allayed the fears of some Nigerians that sensitive election materials kept in custody of the CBN by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will be tampered with. “I think his position is abominable and totally unacceptable. He has to resign. In fact, I think he should be sacked by the president. But I don’t agree that his attitude will affect the security of election materials”. “That he wanted to contest or not cannot affect election materials at all because the system of voting we have now only allows a voter through if he/she has a voters card and the machine has to capture your fingerprints and your face. So, there is nothing Emefiele can do with the election materials which can affect the election”. “You have to go through the biometric process when you want to vote. So, I don’t see any reason why people should be worried about election materials kept in CBN custody” Sagay said. The National Youth Council of Nigeria has called for the sack of the Central Bank Nigeria Governor, Godwin Emefiele, for his involvement in partisan politics. The group said Emefiele did not deserve to retain his position even if he gave up his presidential ambition. Addressing journalists in Abuja, the Council’s president, Solomon Adodo, explained that the CBN governor had demonstrated partisanship and his continued stay in office came at risk to the nation. He said, “On a particularly different note, the NYCN has learnt that the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has met with President Muhammadu Buhari and maybe considering a volte-face in his political ambition. We dare remind the President that it is no longer possible for him to forgo his ambition and still remain the CBN Governor, having demonstrated partisanship. “Many analysts have rightly observed that since the CBN is the custodian of electoral sensitive materials, Mr. Emefiele having openly shown that he is a member of the All Progressives Congress, cannot, under any modicum of morality, have the Nigerian electoral sensitive materials under his custody during an election. “He therefore should be asked to resign, whether he is still pursuing his ambition or not”. “By all means, the sanitary exercise begun by Mr. President should be total and complete. It is our hope that Emefiele must not be allowed to stay a minute beyond the deadline already given by Mr. President.” On his part, Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu called on the President Buhari to sack Emefiele, for dabbling into partisan politics. Akeredolu, in a statement he personally signed on Friday, said Emefiele’s purported action, “if unchecked timeously portends great danger to the fragile economy of the country.” The governor said, “It is incontrovertible that Mr Emefiele enjoys a constitutionally protected right to belong to any group or association and participate fully, just as any Nigerian. It is, however, difficult to imagine that a person who occupies the exalted and sensitive office of the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria will be this brazen in actualising his ambition. “There is no gain asserting the obvious. The combined effect of the Public Service Rules, CBN Act and the 1999 Constitution, as amended, exposes not only the oddity inherent in this brash exercise of presumed right to associate. It also confirms the illegality of the act should he proceed to submit the forms while occupying the seat as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. “He cannot combine partisan politics with the very delicate assignment of his office. Should he refuse to quit, it becomes incumbent on the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces to remove him forthwith. This is a joke taken too far.” However, Akeredolu’s position on Emefiele did not go down well with the National Chairman of Action Alliance (AA), Mr. Kenneth Udeze, who alleged that Akeredolu’s anger against Emefiele was beyond the issue of the purchase of form. He said: “Many participants and watchers of the democratic space must have been taken aback by the speed and audacity at which the Ondo State Governor came down hard on Emefiele. “It is more surprising that Akeredolu spoke at a time when Emefiele has not even come out to declare that he has interest and he will be running. It is true that the groups that felt that the CBN governor will do well as the President purchased forms for him but he has not made any declaration. “So, Nigerians will naturally want to ask the Ondo Governor on which basis is he asking for Emefiele’s sacking? For the discerning minds, Akeredolu’s call is beyond politics or national interest. It is purely personal. “I am however advising Nigerians to beware of desperate politicians who will be presenting their personal interests as national interest as we move closer to the general election.”