GOMBE – One person was reportedly killed in Billiri LGA of Gombe State Sunday evening when police were trying to drive away unruly supporters from the venue of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary election for Billiri/Balanga Federal Constituency. Our correspondent who monitored the exercise which was held at Tangji, an outskirt of Billiri town, reports that the DPO who supervised the security operations at the venue was badly stoned on his forehead, an action which created rancour that resulted in the shooting of a supporter with one other sustaining serious injuries. However, confirming the incident, the Gombe State Police commissioner, Ishola B Babaita, in a telephone conversation with our correspondent, dissociated the killing with the the primary election. -Advertisement- According to him, the killing had nothing to do with the primary election as it was far away from the scene of the primary election. Meanwhile, the election, which was held under a very tensed atmosphere, saw Honourable Ali Isa JC polling 43 out of the 61 votes cast to beat nine other contestants while his closest rival, Honourable Rambi Ibrahim Ayala, polled nine votes. Winner of the election, Honourable Ali Isa JC, who represented the constituency from 2015 to 2019, promised quality representation if elected again in the 2023 general election just as he thanked the delegates for the confidence bestowed on him. According to him, the election was a family affair and that they will move in immediately to see how they can move in together to work as a team and reconcile themselves. He said, “you can see eighty percent of the contestants hugged and congratulated me. So I assure you that we are going to come out strong as one team, so the APC should start parking”. POLL But in his reaction, Honourable Rambi Ibrahim Ayala, current member representing Billiri East in the Gombe State House of Assembly, who contested and polled nine votes, he alleged the militarization of the whole exercise. He said the primary election was not a war as it turned out to be. According tp him, a fair level playing ground should have been a allowed. Meanwhile, reports from other parts of the State showed that the PDP Primaries for the State Assembly and House of Representatives was relatively peaceful. The result is as follows;State House of Assembly,AKKO LGA1) Hon. Abdullahi Bashir Gaddafi – Akko Central2) Hon. Umar Adamu Kalajanga – Akko North3) Hon. Alh Adamu Kashere (Bunun Kashere – Akko West BALANGA LGA1) Hon. Meriji Adamu Majoro – Balanga South2) Hon. Saratu Hamman Jauro – Balanga North BILLIRI LGA1) Hon. Yakubu Daniel Ladollis (Shettiman Bare) – Billiri East2) Hon. Nimrod Malon Yari (Talban Tal) – Billiri West. DUKKU LGA1) Hon. Zakariyya Ya’u Sa’idu – Dukku South2) Hon. Abdulrahman Buba Zaune – Dukku North FUNAKAYE LGA1) Hon. Mohammed Buba Bajoga Boro – Funakaye North2) Hon. Abubakar Adamu – Funakaye South GOMBE LGA1) Hon. Ahmed Kawuwa Abubakar (Chichchi) – Gombe North2) Hon. Ismail Usmandodo – Gombe South KALTUNGO LGA1) Hon. Gabriel Galadima – Kaltungo west2) Hon. Hassan Reuben – Kaltungo East KWAMI LGA1) Hon. Adamu Rilwanu (Marafan Bomala) – Kwami West2) Hon. Ahmad Abubakar Doho (Sardaunan Doho) – Kwami East NAFADA LGA1) Hon. Haji Baba (Sardaunan Nafada) – Nafada North2) Hon. Ibrahim Kawu Musa – Nafada South SHONGOM LGA1) Hon. Zubairu Ayala – Shongom2) Hon. Markus Samuel – Pero Chonge YAMALTU DEBA LGA1) Hon. Salisu Inuwa Lano – Deba2) Hon. Kabiru Haruna Wade – Yamaltu East3) Hon. Engr Samaila Garba – Yamaltu west HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES