Bishop Funso Awe, the 2019 governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) is the Bishop of the Orthodox Anglican Church, Lagos Mainland Diocese. In this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the conventions of the major political parties. He also spoke on a possible shift in Lagos politics, among other issues. Excerpt: With the conventions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) holding within the week, what are your readings of how the events in the two parties are playing out so far? It is getting more interesting and unpredictable. We can only talk of the major players. Initially, we did not expect such a large number of aspirants for the presidency. Nobody is talking of governorship and the Assemblies. I think with the presidency, we could see the different players. There are people going in to place themselves for positioning. In the long run, as it always happens, some people will lose the primaries, jump to pick up the tickets in other parties. Some will lose and take up other positions. Some will wait for the next time. The players are narrowed to three in the PDP, Wike, Atiku and Saraki. In APC, it may be Tinubu, Lawan and Amaechi. -Advertisement- Would you say that the two parties have been able to wade off the imminent implosion foretold by some analysts? No. we can either say it will happen or not after the primaries. After the primaries, anything can happen. How do you see the split in the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s structure playing out at the APC primaries? I am still thinking that on the primary convention ground, they will settle their differences. I think they will form an alliance for their own benefit. They will come together to either support Tinubu or to support one of them. The South West leaders had a meeting and one of their conclusions is that they do not want to lose out. When the die is cast, they may bury their differences and form a united front. In APC, the North has their agenda. If the PDP candidate emerges from the North, the APC may field a Northern candidate. In the South East, already, the people who the APC form, like Orji Uzor Kalu and Chris Ngige have withdrawn. But, APC is not Eastern party. I don’t see the South East APC members giving a battle. They will just fall in line with what the North and South West are doing. Some observers believe that the PDP may end up with the Atiku/ Peter Obi ticket once more. Do you also see it coming? (This interview was conducted just before the purported withdrawal of Peter Obi) POLL I strongly believe so. One way or anothe other, Atiku has a way of pulling through when it comes to primary elections. Since many of the delegates are from the North, Atiku may have his way in the PDP primary. In the PDP, I foresee Tambuwal going far. Kwara is neither here nor there. I don’t see Saraki making a headway. The thing in APC and PDP is that they are not talking of zoning. They are talking of the North, South, South West, South East. The North has more zones. If they bond together, they are difficult to beat. They will always bond together, while the South will decide along South East, South West, South South. The North has common interests. They are coming up with their own common interests. So, I see the North also carrying the day in PDP. In the final analysis, who are the three or four presidential aspirants that may scale the primaries and contest the election proper? Unless we have a surprise, I think we may be heading for Atiku/Tinubu election – Atiku for PDP and Tinubu for APC, unless the indices change. They have fixed it like the World Cup final round. Both APC and PDP were scheduled for May 28 and 29, before APC shifted theirs to a few days ahead. We may have the Atiku/Tinubu race or Atiku/Lawan race. After Atiku/Tinubu, Kwankwaso, who is flying the NNPP flag, may come third. Kola Abiola who may be running under PRP stands a chance. ADC used to have good votes. Both APC and ADC are close on the ballot paper. I see people mistakenly voting for ADC instead of APC. So, some candidates may ride on mistaken votes. But, such mistaken votes cannot take such people anywhere. Does your reading of events in Lagos indicate a major shift politically? In Lagos, everything depends on the Peoples Democratic Party candidate. If PDP comes out with a younger credible candidate, especially somebody like Jide Adediran, aka Jandor of Lagos4Lagos, the equation in Lagos will change. The Lagos4Lagos is getting stronger, although the APC is trying to destroy the movement. But, I don’t see them making any progress on that. If Jandor is the candidate PDP is presenting, we may have a different ball game in Lagos. A lot of Nigerians have been commenting about the attempt by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, to contest the presidential election even when he is still in office as the Head of the Apex Court. What is your take on that? What Godwin Emefiele attempted to do is morally wrong and ethically unjustifiable. The other time, they appointed somebody who is a card-carrying member of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). How can such a person be independent? Now, they were trying to allow someone who is in custody of voting materials to be a candidate. How can you justify that? Are civil servants allowed to be card carrying members of a party? That is why I say it is morally and ethically unjustifiable. Considering the level of insecurity in parts of the country, especially in the North and South East, a cross section of Nigerians have been wondering about the 2023 general elections. What is your take on that? Well, my answer to this is simple. In 2019, there were so many speculations that the elections would not be held. But, in Maiduguri in Borno State, the hotbed of insecurity in the North East, the elections were held, even the governorship and presidential elections. If there were polling booths in Sambisa Forest in the 2019 election, there would have been billions of votes recorded. I don’t think Nigerian type of insecurity can prevent elections from holding. Elections will hold outright. It will be foolhardy for South East people to say elections will not hold. They will be shortchanging themselves because elections will be held somewhere. It is only them that their result will not be counted. Elections will be held in every other place. It is foolhardy to prevent people from going to vote. Apart from being a politician, you are also a cleric. What is your advice to Nigerians at this moment of history? Well, my message to the people at this time is that there is the need for Nigerians to move closer to God. It is time for us to keep praying more. In recent time, we held a fellowship of past presiding Chaplains of and Chairmen of the Lagos State government run church, Church of Christ The Light, Alausa, Ikeja. I am the chairman of this group. We did a prayer conference for Nigerians. Churches and Christians need to pray for Nigeria at this time for our nation. Happenings around us are telling us that we need more of God this time. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 7: 14: “If the people that are called by my name seek my face and turn to me, I will heal their land.” So, we need to seek the face of God in a time like this. There is too much wickedness in the nation. Too much innocent blood are being shed in parts of this country. Religious leaders must call their people out in prayer. We have too many scholars who are teaching people a lot of lies. Messages of religious leaders must be based on peace and unity. Religious leaders are flaming the fire of violence in this country. They should desist from doing so.