The Executive Secretary of Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev. Dr Yakubu Pam, has said that the insecurity in Nigeria would end if we all engage in productive ventures. He made this disclosure over the weekend during the Nzem Berom Cultural Festival in Abuja. The NCPC boss who was the Chairman of the Occasion challenged Nigerians to rise update to the occasion and embrace discipline which is the hallmark of success. He urged the Berom, and his kinsmen to always identify with their culture and build a strong economic base. Rev Pam avered that corruption is what destroys a nation and it is not only limited to governance but even individuals are culpable. He stressed that what sustains the culture and religion of a people is business and economic strength. He noted that he is very proud to be a Berom man. In his words, “I am very proud to be a Berom man because we have never done away with our culture anywhere we find ourselves. POLL On his part, the Executive Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong who was represented by the Commissioner of Information, Dan. Manjang, said, “Togetherness, love for one another irrespective of religion, political inclinations, tribe, culture and individual differences are the major way the Berom community will remain strong and March forward”. Earlier, the President of Berom Community Association in Abuja, (BECA), Engr. Dr David Gyang Dung, in his welcome address, stated, “the significance of this event is to celebrate our unity and harmony and then promote and showcase our rich culture. As you can see, everyone here is putting on dresses in the colours of maroon and bush green. “The bush green colour signifies the cactus plant which is found in largest quantity in Jos, Plateau State”. According to him, “We are all welcome to the Nzem Berom Abuja 2022 Fund Raising of 100 Million Naira for the Building of ‘Lala Berom Abuja”. This is to support the Berom community and environs, to make an impact. We have been allocated a 1.4 hectares of land in Kuja Area Council to make an impact on the lives of our members and those around us. “This event serves to open doors for the farming season and for integration with other cultures as the Berom man is known for farming and hunting.” He added that the” ‘The Lala Berom Abuja’ will add to the elevation of poverty amongst the Berom community. We are developing a skills acquisition centre in this edifice where we will have people coming to learn vocational skills thereby improving the standard of living of our people and those around our community. So I call on you all to come and join us to build for the upliftment of our nation”. Also in his remarks, the father of the day, Da. Dr Jonah Madugu disclosed that there would be a launch of the Berom Trust Fund at the upcoming Berom economic summit and cultural festival that would be held in Jos this year. The highlight of the occasion was the parade of all the BECA associations in different locations of Abuja, Nassarawa and Niger States. There was also the presentation of the 2022 Miss BECA Zere Berom, cultural dances and showcasing of Berom local delicacies.