LAGOS – The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has thrown its weight behind the recent arrest of the former governor of Imo State and a sitting Senator, Rochas Okorocha, by the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Debo Adeniran, the CACOL chairman, in a statement signed by the group’s Director of Administration and Programmes, Mr. Tola Oresanwo, recalled that some EFCC personnel reportedly stormed Okorocha’s residence on Tuesday as part of efforts to arrest him. Adeniran noted that EFCC had on January 24, 2022, filed a 17-count criminal charge alleging diversion of public funds and properties to the tune of N2.9billion against Okorocha. -Advertisement- The case, he added, was assigned to Hon. Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, but attempts to arraign Senator Okorocha were twice stalled due to the absence of the ex-governor, who allegedly evaded service of processes. CACOL also noted that the EFCC had said that its operatives stormed Okorocha’s residence because he allegedly refused to honour invitations after jumping administrative bail earlier granted him by the commission. Adeniran said: “Nigeria has been corrupted to the extent that people jumped bail at will. It is wrong of Rochas Okorocha to tie his arrest and predicaments to an effort at truncating his presidential ambition as he had been making people believe. “If his hands are clean, why dishonouring EFCC’s invitation? This is a man who wants to preside over the affairs of this country, yet he found it difficult to obey the law of the land by jumping bail and evading arrest. “In as much as we want to condemn the Gestapo nature of the siege and his eventual arrest, we want to be on the side of caution to reiterate that we fully support his arrest, interrogation and prosecution, if found wanton.” POLL Adeniran, however, stressed that the EFCC could have been more patient with Okorocha’s attempts to go out, or catch up with him at any public place or function, instead of the alleged breaking in through the ceiling. He stressed: “While we heartily appreciate the President Muhammed Buhari’s government in exposing the unbridled fleecing of our commonwealth under whatever guise, we at CACOL enjoin the administration to not only retrieve all ill-gotten wealth from wherever it has been repatriated but to ensure that adequate deterrence is meted out on those indicted for the evils of corruptive practices to take flight from our sociopolitical space. “We also call on EFCC to expedite the prosecution of Senator Rochas Okorocha and his partners in crime and if found guilty, should be punished by the law, through the appropriate section of the criminal law.”