Despite global declarations of gender-based or domestic violence as among the most widespread, persistent and devastating human rights violations, investigations reveal that the weak stance of Nigeria’s law on crime and no clear-cut national policy are fueling the menace. Survivors, experts and other stakeholders speak on how to deal with this ravaging cankerworm. Report by ROLAND OGBONNAYA, CHIOMA UMEHA, JIDE OYEKUNLE, TOYIN ADEBAYO, SEYI TAIWO-OGUNTUASE and CHIBUZOR EMEJOR In recent times there has been a seeming hike in reported cases of gender-based or domestic violence in Nigeria. It is now be­lieved that “Every one in three women and girls in Nigeria is at the risk of physical, sex­ual, emotional and psychological violence in the home”. As a result, also, so many lives have been lost over time. The recent was the death of popular Nigerian gospel crooner, Osinachi Nwachukwu, who allegedly died from injuries sustained by an abusive and violent husband. Her death elicited another public outcry and brought domestic violence in Nigeria to the front burner. According to the United Nations, domestic abuse, “also called “domestic violence” or “in­timate partner violence”, can be defined as a pattern of behaviour in any relationship that is used to gain or maintain power and control over an intimate partner.” The world body said the abuse could be physical, sexual, emotional, economic, or psychological actions or threats of actions that influence another person. -Advertisement- This includes any behaviour that frightens, intimidates, terrorises, manipulates, hurts, humiliates, blames, injures, or wounds some­one. Domestic abuse can happen to anyone of any race, age, sexual orientation, religion, or gender. It can occur within a range of rela­tionships including couples who are married, living together, or dating. Domestic violence also affects people of all socio-economic back­grounds and education levels. While anyone can be a victim of domestic violence, regard­less of age, race, gender, sexual orientation, faith, or class, the abused may also include a child or other relative, or any other household member. Domestic abuse is typically manifested as a pattern of abusive behaviour toward an intimate partner in a dating or family rela­tionship, where the abuser exerts power and control over the victim. Domestic abuse can be mental, physical, economic, or sexual in na­ture. Incidents are rarely isolated and usually escalate in frequency and severity. Domestic abuse may culminate in serious physical in­jury or death. Pastor Jackie Ikeotuonye, a victim and survivor of domestic violence said it can also involve intimidation in various ways, physical abuse, verbal, emotional, psychological and even financial abuses. “And this cuts across all sectors of our society. We can only look at the increasing rise of domestic violence from reported cases or from those who have been victims or are still victims who may not have reported formally to law enforcement agents but are using various platforms to share their story.” “There are so many causes but before I look at the causes, I must state clearly that there is no reason whatsoever for any woman to be subjected to any form of domestic violence. Now, I am just focusing on women for the pur­poses of this discussion. There are men who are also being abused domestically by their spouses. Let me just save it here for another discussion. The incidence of reported cases of domestic violence that involve women is much higher than that of men. “There is also an economic aspect of it. When the head of the home is not able to fend for his family or he has the ability but due to his irresponsibility, he refuses to do so. This creates tension in the home and any attempt by the wife to demand an explanation or remind the man of his responsibility and obligation to his family results in one form of domestic abuse or the other. POLL “Then we have differences in personality. Most people made the mistake of marrying someone they are not compatible with either because they were under pressure to marry or they were ‘running’ away from some problems in their homes. We should not overlook the role of background in dealing with the problem of domestic violence. A man who grew up in a home where his father battered his mum or treated her with disdain is most likely going to do the same to his spouse except by some mentorship or exposure to some sane envi­ronments, which helps reshape and change his perspectives. “Again we live in a patriarchal society. Though that perception is gradually changing, a woman isn’t considered complete until she attaches “Mrs. Somebody” thereby dropping her maiden name which is a very honorable thing. We have also seen that in the majority of the cases, no woman marries with an exit plan, so she goes to any length to ensure that she remains married. “With this mindset, she tolerates every maltreatment meted out to her in the home. And when she attempts to confide in someone, could be her parents, church leaders, friends, or siblings about domestic violence in her home, in over 80 percent of the cases, she is told to bear it, that it will get better. Some par­ents will caution her against bringing shame to the family in the event her marriage breaks up,” Pastor Ikeotuonye told the Saturday IN­DEPENDENT during the week. Commenting, James Ibor, a member of the Basic Rights Counsel Initiative, identified cultural and religious practices as the major factors encouraging violence against women and girls in Nigeria which he said are more prevalent during wars. Ibor lamented that women and girls are raped and brutalised to humiliate their community. Other forms of violence against women and girls, he said, in­clude trafficking, sexual exploitation, depri­vation of resources including health, food, livelihood, confinement, child marriage, bat­tering, and female genital mutilation (FGM), among others. The human rights lawyer said that Nigeria has the largest number of child brides in Afri­ca and the third-largest number of women and girls who have undergone FGM in the world. According to him, girls and boys are raised, treated and valued differently from birth to adulthood. Women and girls are solely respon­sible for caregiving and household chores and this has implications for girls’ school atten­dance. He continued, “It is only women who are captured during the war and raped. It is only women that are given conditions to go to bed with men before being given a job or getting a first-class. It is also women that men tell not to work but sit at home. It is also women that change their names after marriage.” Contributing, Foluke Omoworare, Child Protection Specialist, in a recent interview with our correspondent revealed that 36 per cent of married women have experienced physical, sexual, or emotional violence at the hand of their spouses across the country. She stressed that these perpetrators of violence against women are mostly spouses and inti­mate partners, while children are often vio­lated by people that know them. According to her, women and girls with dis­abilities are twice as likely to experience vio­lence of any form. Lagos State, she revealed, recorded over 2,000 cases of child violation in 2020, according to data submitted by the Child Protection Network to the Lagos State Ministry of Youths and Social Development. Revealing the alarming rise in the cases of child abuse in the State, the data alerted that no fewer than 2,674 children suffered the menace since 2020 till date. Given the breakdown, the report said that 2,154 (2020) and 520 (2021) cases were between 2020 and April 2021. The data further said that sexual (defilement, rape, assault) abuse of chil­dren share the highest occurrence at 1005 and 213 in 2020 and 2021 respectively, followed by physical violence which the figure was put at 376 and 94 in both years correspondingly. On his part, Muhammad Okorie, the Chief of Operations Officer, UNICEF Lagos, said vi­olence against women is a global issue, adding that, this trend threatens women from achieve their full potential. He told Saturday INDE­PENDENT that “before 25 years, a girl must have been violated either sexually or physi­cally. If we do not end violence against women, we can reduce it to the nearest minimum. The media has a vantage position to reach a larger audience since they have more access through their report to speak to stakeholders,” Okorie stated. Mr. Ebisike George, a concerned social commentator and inventor said domestic vi­olence in all its forms is a deep-rooted problem and anomaly in the Nigeria homes. It is also a problem on a global scale. “Its effects on the old, middle-aged and young, parents, neigh­bours and children is deep and disastrously far-reaching. There is a need to understand the need to handle conflict and its resolution(s) on the home front more decisively yet calmly as to ensure respect and management of differ­ences are resolved without violence or abuse of any form on any and all parties.” He said there is a thin line between domes­tic violence and the current realities of eco­nomic challenges faced by the massive cloak of poverty ubiquitous in Nigeria today. He said home is a place where the psychological makeup of men, women and children must be kept, just as he said that the causes of domestic violence are borne out of a spectrum of factors which range from the state of mind of the indi­vidual parents to scenarios as communication gaps, the influence of alcohol or drugs on the individual parents, managing stress in the do­mestic or private spaces and of the parties or partners in the home, a lack of understanding body language(s), the quality of advice or ex­ternal communication from family members or friends, poverty and depression/mental health challenges, ideological and religious factors, amongst other factors. The consequences of domestic violence produce a society of broken children, who are likely to become violent and abusive to their spouses and children. Domes­tic violence and broken homes within a society can lead to single parenthood which im­pacts adversely on the children where the absence of parental balance can and will take a toll on the psyche of the make-it female child. Gender violence and social media influencing, online bullying can become a dangerous mix for Generation Z who picks up easy violent traits that endanger society in the long term. A Lagos-based legal practitioner Nihinlola Alu­ko-Olokun, who described do­mestic violence as a pandemic, especially with the COVID-19 lockdown and the lack of jobs and poverty, said there are a lot of failed expectations from both the husband and the wife which causes emotional distress causing the violence. Aluko-Olokun stated that what the government can do is increase awareness against domestic violence and that the laws must be enforced. “Domestic violence should not be seen as family affairs. There must be alternative shel­ter for especially the women because if the woman did not have anywhere to go she will remain there, but if there is a government shelter where she can just cool off while the an­ger is raging that would help the situation and possibly she can go with her children for a while and stay in the gov­ernment shelter but for now the shelter is one percent. I don’t want to say zero. The government is not providing any shelter and the NGOs that are providing shelter are very few and I am not sure that the shelter is easily accessible to ordinary people.” Worried Ada Agina-Ude, Executive Director of Gen­der and Development Action (GADA) said there is hardly a day that a case of domestic or gender-based violence is not reported on the social media, stressing that the general opin­ion is that it has always been like that, but it is being more reported now. She said that the causes of domestic and gender-based violence are as varied as the different charac­teristics of human beings. “Some people are so high­ly strung that they will make a lot of fuss over something that others would ignore. Such persons would also have the tendency to go physical at the drop of a hat. The tendency to go violent can be attributed to a person’s upbringing. Nat­urally, people who grew up in environments where every issue is settled with violence may tend to be violent. Also, the unequal gender relations between men and women con­tribute immensely to violence. “Many men who beat their wives believe that a wife has to be controlled. In their own understanding, marriage is like a relationship between a slave and a slave owner. They don’t see marriage as a part­nership. We have also been witnessing so much brutality by housewives against their house helps, and sometimes their own children. That is equally a manifestation of unequal power relations. The one who feels superior tries to enforce their will on the weak­er person,” she said. Edoamaowo Udeme, Founder/Executive Director, Network Against Domestic Vi­olence Foundation told Satur­day INDEPENDENT that the effect of domestic violence on the country’s economy is huge. She said when a man beats his wife to the extent of her arm being amputated, she cannot be productive at work, and she will lose working hours as it will take her more hours to finish her job than when her hands were complete. She add­ed that for working-class wom­en, abuse at home is enough to make her unproductive at work as her mind will be constantly on what she was returning home to. Marriage Counsellor and Therapist at Purple Lifeline Connections Limited, Dr. Mima Odiegwu, has also decried the alarming rate of domestic vi­olence, which has resulted in high fatalities in Nigeria. At a media briefing on Fri­day in Abuja, Odiegwu identi­fied ignorance, poverty, broken and dysfunctional homes as well as mental health issues as being responsible for the in­creasing number of domestic violence in the country. She noted that the nagging issue of domestic violence is no longer restricted to women and children, adding that men have also become victims of domestic violence. She therefore, called for in­creasedadvocacy, strengthening of the nation’s judicial system as well as the police, adding that stringent punitive measures should be meted out to the per­petrators of domestic violence. Odiegwu, who is also TV and Radio Personality, said over 50percent of women in marriage have suffered one form of domestic violence or the other, while about 25 percent of men have equally suffered the same fate. “If you raise a child who believes that aggression and violence is the only way of solving problems, a monster will be raised in the society.” She appealed to the govern­ment to support non-govern­mental organisations to carry advocacy and create awareness in both cities and rural areas on the dangers of domestic vi­olence to curb its excesses. Dealing with it Lemmy Ughegbe, a child and gender rights advocate said the usual thing in a soci­ety that is more realistic and practical in addressing these things, the government should have psychologists available. The few of them in Nigeria you have to pay through your nose and there is the general notion that you have a problem with sanity. The government needs deliberate effort and should provide psycho-social support for every family. “But we are having a sit­uation where even the states where a Violence Against Per­sons Prohibition Act (VAPP) have been passed, there is no genuine political will to make sure that anybody is brought to justice. And once there is no­body brought to justice there is no deterrent. The failure to implement the provisions VAPP Act 2015 emboldened violators and perpetrators of the violence.” Betty Abah, Executive Di­rector, Centre for Children’s Health Education, Orientation and Protection (CEE-HOPE), in her view stated that a way to deal with this issue is the implementation or enforce­ment of the various laws on sexual violence. For instance, 14 years for distribution of child pornography and life im­prisonment for some forms of child sexual abuse. She added that the compromise by some law enforcement agencies es­pecially the police has been a major setback. For Pastor Ikeotuonye, who is also a counsellor, vio­lence and abuse at the hands of a loved one are frightening, degrading and confusing. There is a need to not only enact strong laws and policies against domestic violence but most importantly, the political will for implementation. “In 1994 for example, the US Congress passed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This Act, and the 1996 addi­tions to the Act, recognises that domestic violence is a national crime and that fed­eral laws can help an overbur­dened state and local criminal justice system. We all know what it means in civilised so­ciety for a man to physically abuse his wife and vice versa,” she emphasised.