Former President of the Senate and one of the aspirants in the just concluded People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential primary, Pius Anyim Pius has congratulated Atiku Abubakar, the winner of the party ticket. Anyim also descended on the party for not using burning national issues as consideration for picking a presidential candidate, adding that the party still rely on primordial sentiment. Commending the PDP 2022 Special Convention Committee for doing a great job, Anyim said, “I’m proud to have gone through the race to the end. -Advertisement- “However, I am shocked that consideration for voting the PDP presidential candidate was not based on burning national issues and how to resolve them, but still on the old primordial sentiments. It appears doubtful if our search for nationhood is yielding any results.” The former President of the Senate further said, “I deeply appreciate and thank all those who stood by me throughout this race, especially those that voted for me at the primary election. ” I want to assure all of you that we shall continue to stand tall until we birth the Nigeria of our collective dreams. “Let me also congratulate His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for emerging the PDP flag bearer for the 2023 presidential election.” Meanwhile, the PDP has approved the cancellation of all party primaries in Ebonyi State. POLL The party, which cancelled its governorship, all State House of Assembly and National Assembly primaries in the state, however, charged all aspirants, critical stakeholders, leaders and members of the party in Ebonyi State to remain calm. The party, in a statement issued by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba said, “after very extensive consultations, deliberations and review of all issues, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approved the cancellation of all Party primaries in Ebonyi State. “To this effect, all State House of Assembly, National Assembly and Governorship primaries of our Party in Ebonyi State are hereby cancelled. The NWC will announce new dates for the affected Party exercises in the State.” The PDP also charged all aspirants, critical stakeholders, leaders and members of the party in the state to remain united and focused as PDP takes firm steps to rescue the nation from the misrule of the rudderless, corrupt and incompetent All Progressives Congress (APC).