ABUJA – The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has begun strategic training of its employees on compliance with industry-specific norms and standards in order to promote accuracy, efficiency, transparency, and service delivery in the public sector. This comes barely a year after the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation launched the SOPs, a component of the Enterprise Content Management System (ECMS) of the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP), 2021-2025, which is expected to culminate in the digitalisation of service processes and operations. According to our sources, the FCTA organized a 10-day course on Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for nearly 200 employees from the administration’s 12 secretariats, departments, and agencies. -Advertisement- Our correspondent reports that the FCTA organised a 10-day training on Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for over 200 staff drawn from 12 Secretariats, Departments and Agencies of the Administration. Declaring the workshop open on Wednesday, the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr. Olusade Adesola, said SOPs are globally recognised as manuals that apply step-by-step instructions as compiled by an organisation to assist personnel performing their operational tasks accurately and effectively He noted that the deployment of SOPs will help to reduce miscommunications and promote adherence to industry regulations, as SOPs are designed to ensure an efficient and quality output on a consistent basis, regardless of who follows them. According to him: “This innovative effort by the Office of the Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF) will strengthen service delivery efforts of the Federal Capital Territory Administration which envisions excellence, effective service delivery and citizen satisfaction. POLL “The FCT Administration has been one of the pioneer public institutions that were in the forefront of the Federal Government’s computerisation drive, and provided a solid foundation for digitalisation of operational procedures we need to work excellently. “The full implementation of the ECMS will set the tone for service-wide adoption of performance management, and to eventually berth the International Standard Organisation certification of the Federal Civil Service system; hence, we cannot afford to lag behind, FCTA no dey carry last”, he stressed. He, therefore, urged the participants to accord the training all the seriousness it deserves, because the vision is not simply to document processes and procedures, but it rather speaks to efficiency in the general service delivery value chain. Earlier, the Ag. Director, Reform Coordination and Service Improvement Department (RCSID), Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, explained that twelve frontline SDAs have been carefully selected to pilot the implementation of the SOPs which will be deployed to other SDAs eventually. She added that, RCSID has had series of engagements with the Technical Team from OHCSF to fine tune all the processes that will enhance proper development and implementation of the SOPs in the FCT Administration. Meanwhile, the Director- General Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR), Mr. Dasuki Arabi, commended the management of FCTA, for taking the bold step to implement some of the recommendations proffered byBPSR, following the collaboration with the FCTA in the area of governance reforms, aimed at strengthening the institutions within the FCT, and repositioning them for efficiency and better service delivery. He reaffirmed the commitments of the Bureau to provide necessary assistance and support to bring to fruition the reforms initiatives and guidance required to up-scale staff capacity and strengthen the agencies operating within the FCTA.