Lagos – At least, $11 trillion would be required to close the infrastructure gap in the critical sectors of the Nigerian economy, the Association for Consulting Engineering in Nigeria (ACEN) and professionals in the sector have said. This is as Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos and other professionals have advocated for enhanced investment in infrastructure to foster real growth and economic prosperity on the continent. Speaking at the 28th Annual International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) Africa Infrastructure Conference with the theme, ‘Infrastructure Development in Africa’, in Lagos, stakeholders in the sector lamented the dearth of or poor infrastructure in many African countries as a major challenge bedeviling growth in Africa. -Advertisement- Speakers at the event emphasised that infrastructure deficit in sub-Saharan Africa was exacerbated by low investment and poor funding. Participants at the three-day event called on governments across Africa to give attention to the provision of critical socio- economic infrastructure that could catalyse growth in the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) and stimulate prosperity. They also challenged the government to take full advantage of the public-private partnership (PPP) financing model, saying private sector funding would accelerate the delivery of long-term infrastructure, bolster availability of services to the people as well as help create more jobs. Also, Engr. Ajibade Oke, the President of ACEN, in his address, said increasing population in Africa especially places the burden on the countries in the continent, including Nigeria to continue to invest in socio-economic infrastructure. Oke declared that the world would not wait for neither Nigeria nor Africa and charged for the leaders on the continent to improve their performances. POLL “There will always be a need for infrastructural development as population increases. This phenomenon is more apparent in Africa where population increases geometrically. Unfortunately, Africa also has the disadvantage of needing to catch up with the rest of the world. Nigeria needs about $11 trillion to get adequate infrastructure and to also meet up with the rest of the world. The world will not wait for Africa. We need to double up,” he stated. Oke, who said the hosting of the conference in Nigeria for the third time was significant in light of the global recovery from COVID-19, stated that infrastructure development was strategic to the efforts at reflating the national economy. Also, Sanwo-Olu in his keynote speech decried lack of infrastructure as one of the factors inhibiting Africa from realising its full potential. Represented by Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye, his Special Adviser on Works and Infrastructure, Sanwo-Olu noted that without adequate and quality infrastructure, it would be difficult to create jobs especially for the growing youth population and create decent and comfortable living standards for the people. The governor stated that the state government had consistently accorded infrastructure development and renewal priority to build a stronger economic base in line with the status of Lagos State as Africa’s fastest growing megacity. He said: “As the theme of this year’s conference, ‘Infrastructure Development in Africa’, connotes, you have dedicated this edition of your conference towards reawakening us as individuals, private organisations and as government to raise awareness about the critical role infrastructure plays in sustainable socio-economic development especially in a fast-growing and highly competitive global economy in the 21st century.” Besides, Engr. Kabelo Motswagole, President, FIDIC Africa, stated that the conference theme was apt and auspicious at a time most governments in Africa are looking for alternative ways of funding infrastructure development and maintenance. Motswagole added that issues of sustainability and resilient infrastructure were important to consulting engineers. The three-day 28th Annual FIDIC Africa Infrastructure Conference was attended by top government functionaries including representatives of the Federal and Lagos State governments, participants from members across 18 national member associations including ACEN from Nigeria as well as corporate organisations.