A plot by the Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, and his Special Adviser, Erondu Junior Erondu, to secretly support an All Progress Congress (APC) candidate in the forthcoming governorship primary election against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has been uncovered, the PDP has alleged. A PDP national officer who pleaded anonymity, leaked the clandestine move to our correspondent. The source while interacting with our correspondent on the sideline of a meeting of some PDP members in Abuja, noted that Ikpeazu is jittery over the chances of his annointed candidate, the former Vice Chancellor of Abia State University, Prof Ikonne, to winning the party primary, hence his alleged unholy alliance with APC. -Advertisement- Recall that Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, the highest ranking PDP office holder in the red chambers, who is from the same Senatorial zone with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, is contesting for Abia governorship seat. And news has it that Abia indigenes and PDP members favour him. The PDP stalwart, further explained that Governor Ikpeazu and his allies are seriously negotiating with APC members in Abia to ensure he actualizes his ambition of installing the next Abia governor. He further said the People’s Democratic Party delegates and even Abia citizens are totally against Ikpeazu’s choice of candidate in the elections because of obvious reasons. The alleged plan, the Source said, has a link to the failed third attempt three man ad-hoc delegates primaries, which he said necessitated the governor’s zero option but to source alternative means to achieve his desire. This move according to the Source, is part of the Governor Ikpeazu’s plans to destabilise the forthcoming Abia PDP governorship primary election and ensure that no candidate emerges in the election, since it has become obvious that his anointed candidate will likely not win the party’s ticket. POLL The source said that Ikpeazu’s quest to enthrone his preferred candidate to succeed him is such a big project to the governor that he is willing to ruin PDP to ensure he succeeds. In the words of our source, “There are strong indications that the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu have perfected plans to impose an APC candidate of Ngwa origin to take over from him having realized that his annointed candidate won’t win PDP ticket for governorship. “We gathered and have it in good authority that Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and his henchman, Erondu Junior Erondu are in negotiations with an APC candidate to jeopardize other PDP candidates chances of winning the ballots should Ikpeazu’s annointed candidate be defeated at the primaries. “The plans began when his efforts to impose the three man delegates by all means didn’t go as he planned. “Part of his agenda to destabilise is engineer one of the PDP aspirant to go to court to challenge the outcome the parimary, which may caused the party to be disqualified and with no one getting the party ticket. “As much as the Governor is entitled to annointing a candidate, it is a pity he is out to do that even at the detriment of his party.”