No fewer than six airlines including Arik Air and Dana Arline have opted out of the planned suspension of operations canvassed by Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), which is scheduled to commence on Monday. This is as Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation has lauded the airlines for their patriotism, saying that the plan to withdraw service was purely a business one. Ibom Air had on Saturday evening pulled out of the suspension of flights, while Dana Air, Arik Air, Aero Contractors, Overland Airways and Green Africa Airways on Sunday, shelved their plan to join the action. -Advertisement- A statement by Mr Kingsley Ezenwa, the Communications Manager, Dana Air, specifically said that the airline was not joining the others to ground operations. Dana hinted that it took the decision in the overall interest of its guests, corporate partners, staff and the industry at large. The airline, however, agreed with the AON on all the challenges facing domestic airlines in the country, stressing that it had on numerous occasions actively participated in the collective and ongoing engagement of relevant authorities on the urgent need to tackle the many issues domestic airlines have been grappling with, including the skyrocketing cost of Jet A1. The statement added: “We acknowledge that the present cost of jet A1 is unsustainable and should not be passed to the flying public, we, therefore, call on the government to act urgently to resolve these unending operational challenges, while Dana Air will continue to support every effort by the AON to achieve a quick and peaceful resolution in the interest of our dear country Nigeria.” Also, Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation in a statement by Dr James Odaudu, his Special Assistant stated that from the time AON issued a notice of withdrawal of flight services as a result of the rising cost of aviation fuel, he had been soliciting more understanding from the umbrella body of airlines in the country. POLL He, however, condemned the notion that the planned withdrawal of flight services was directed at the government, maintaining that the decision of the association was purely a business one. Sirika stated that the airlines are private businesses, which are reacting to market forces while appealing for government interventions to enable them to carry on with their operations. The minister pointed out that the ministry had always made conscious efforts to assist and promote the operational interests of AON, some of which includes facilitating a meeting between it and President Muhammadu Buhari, which led to the approval of several concessions, including duty-free importation of aircraft, engines, spare parts and components. The statement added that the minister at various times personally took members of the association to engage with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to sort out issues of access to foreign exchange for their operations, and also the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to explore ways of ensuring the availability of JET A1 through importation or from the major marketers at affordable prices. The statement added: “It should also be recalled that members of the association were considered for, and given bailout funds to the tune of N4 billion during the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that they remained afloat. This was without prejudice to the fact that most of them were heavily indebted to aviation agencies (as they still are). “We believe that members of the association are patriots who have continued to bear the brunt of unfavourable global oil market dynamics for which we salute their doggedness. Sirika lauded members of the airlines that have pulled out of the suspension of operations and hoped that “a few hesitant members will consider the dire implications of the planned activities for businesses and individuals and review their decision likewise.” He further assured foreign airlines operating in the country that all the requisite logistics and services for their operations remained in place, as usual, stressing that no disruptions whatsoever should be envisaged. He reiterated the commitment of the government to the continued growth of the aviation industry where airlines and other service providers operate in a conducive, supportive and profitable business environment. Meanwhile, Dr Gabriel Olowo, President, Aviation Round Table (ART) has said that the aviation fuel had remained an issue for over 20 years in Nigeria without serious attention by the government., saying that the airlines have been operating in the sector out of patriotism. He warned that if the issue was not quickly nipped in the bud, it may lead to avoidable accidents. He added: “This has been the essence of my consistent advocacy for upward review of tariffs all the time, but how high can tariffs go given the average passenger purchasing power? If any airline pretends about this problem, such an airline must be receiving subsidies for the business or cutting corners. “No operational and management skill can answer for this uncontrollable factor of the business. The government must provide a lasting solution once and for all at this time, while I also appeal to the airlines to heed the minister’s appeal to endure and stretch a little more, but not beyond their elastic limit.”