The Lagos state government has revealed that projects in the THEMES agenda were designed to conform and fulfill the Sustainable Development Goals and Targets of the United Nations. This was revealed by Mrs. Solape Hammond, Special Adviser, Lagos State Office of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and Investments, who was represented by Mrs Abosede George, the Permanent Secretary of the agency, while delivering a paper at a training programme organised by the United Nations Information Center, UNIC, held in May 10-11 for Journalists in Lagos to form part of a Nigerian network of Sustainable Development Goals’ reporters. According to the organisers, the United Nations drew up a set of 17 global goals in 2015 to combat poverty, inequality, environmental destruction, and more by 2030. These Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by 193 countries. -Advertisement- The SDGs offer a framework and blueprint for achieving sustainable global prosperity and commit participating countries to individual and joint action for the good of all on the planet. The SDGs are a successor to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which ran from 2000 to 2015. All 193 member states of the United Nation have adopted 17 global goals to be achieved by 2030, known as the Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs. Each country adopting the SDGs is responsible for establishing a national policy that offers a concrete plan for achieving SDGs in their country. Organizations and institutions are also encouraged to frame their own strategic objectives around the SDGs, creating a global task force of cooperation and joint interest. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, came up with the THEMES agenda at the inception of his administration and have been working assiduously to ensure he delivers on the target projects contained in the agenda, especially projects and programmes designed to tackle commuting challenges in the State through a world class inter-modal transport system in conformity with the United Nations SDG targets. POLL While the state scores itself high in the achievements of the agenda, it is pertinent going forward to ask and evaluate how these projects adapt to the SDG standards, are they not creating new challenges, how sustainable are they in the long run, what impact have they generated, and what are the succession plans? According to Engineer Akin Obadeyi, a Senior Partner with Transland Civil Engineering Limited, “Urban mobility planning is a focus on people, not vehicles. Lagos State which unarguably is the largest city in West Africa with an estimated population of about 22 million people, is having a significant number of its population suffering from loss of productive time owing to intra-city movement marred by consistent congestions. “Though the government is making great efforts, the demand for transportation has not been met with supply, rather traffic congestion, pollution and social inequalities are the reflection of the city’s mobility. The growing population due to urbanisation exceeds the supplies and amenities Lagos state could provide”, he added. He explained further that the relationship between urbanisation and motorization in Lagos State is unbalanced because the present transportation interventions are not commensurate with her growing population of 600,000 people annually and migration rate. However, the state cannot be said to be totally insensitive to these challenges as witnessed in her renewed effort in the provision of a suitable public transportation system with a dedicated lane and the expansion of other modes of transport such as rail and inland water transport. Engr. Obadeyi reiterated. According to records from the official website of Lagos state, the government since incumbency has constructed about 100 road networks and repaired about 670 inner roads, to accelerate traffic flow, reduce travel and reduce traffic gridlocks. Sanwo-Olu also launched LagRide with 1,000 units of Sport Utility Vehicles [SUVs], commissioned four Bus Terminals, and completed 78 bus shelters/bus depots while 22 are ongoing, reconfiguring 6 Junctions/Roundabouts. The state also delivered 14 new BRT stations, launched 500 units of First and Last Mile (FLM) buses as alternative means of transportation in addressing the security threat constituted by commercial motorcycles, popularly known as ‘okada’, and injected 560 high-medium capacity buses for standard routes. For water, LAGFERRY now operates on 21 boats, eight of which were inaugurated by Sanwo-Olu on February 6, 2020; while 7 new ones were added to the fleet on June 22nd, 2021. These resulted in LAGFERR ferrying over 500,000 passengers between February 2020 and March 2022 and moving 41,040 trucks from Mile 2 terminal between January and December 2020 while creating 284 jobs. As impressive as the effort of the Lagos state governments is in solving the seeming intractable mobility challenge of the populous state, it should be wary of salient but critical targets in the Sustainable Development Goals that should be factored in its transportation and traffic agenda. According to Professor Kayode Oyesiku, Professor of Transportation and Logistics, a transport is key to sustainable development owing to its socio-economic and environmental impact and linkages with other sectors. “The potential economic and social benefits of today’s transport have been greatly eroded by social, health, environmental and economic losses associated with traffic congestion, air and noise pollution and road crashes. “Increase in fatality rate as a result of accidents or congestion has a huge effect on economic activities. On the other hand, urgent steps are required to ensure more equitable allocation of road spaces by incorporating a purpose driven road design with a strong focus on walking, cycling, efficient public transport planning, design management, financing transport projects and implementation”, he added. Experts say consequent upon the Lagos state interventions and investment in public transportation, the situation is still not giving the expected result as individuals still want to have control over their journeys, a situation where members of the public want to drive their individual cars, thereby compounding the traffic situation despite government effort over the years. Hence, the need for a more concerted effort as it relates to policy formulation, pronouncement and political will to implement the sustainable urban mobility plans. Experts have raised concerns over rising levels of air pollution in Nigeria as a new survey by some researchers has established a link between poor academics in childhood and air pollution exposure. Indeed, the latest research result of the Columbia Centre for Children’s Environmental Health published in the journal, Science Daily, indicated that children exposed to elevated levels of air pollution are more likely to have poor inhibitory control during late childhood and poor academic skills in early adolescence, including spelling, reading comprehension and math skills. The researchers note that road transport is a major contributor to greenhouse gases and air pollution in developing countries, just as flaring of gas, emanating from oil production, is rife with its huge economic losses and incalculable health hazards. The carbon dioxide, methane and soot released as a result of gas flaring are said to cause health issues such as cancer and lung damage, deformities in children, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, neurological and reproductive problems as well as environmental challenges which stall agricultural productivity and aquatic and wildlife lives. This report is raising panic in Nigeria, especially in Lagos that has over 40% of the total number of vehicles in the country which is said to have some of the worst air pollution in the world, with clouds of choking soot hanging over gridlocked cities, leading to a rise in serious health conditions and damaged vehicles. Global Alliance on Health and Pollution in a report ranks Nigeria third in the world for pollution-related deaths and sixth in premature deaths caused by air pollution. An international resource watchdog group, Stakeholder Democracy Network, in a report, estimates that 114,000 people die prematurely from air pollution each year in Nigeria. Many people in Lagos are said to be breathing polluted air leading to avoidable deaths. Indeed, a recent World Bank report estimated that air pollution caused over 11,200 premature deaths in Lagos, with children accounting for about 60 per cent. The health cost of air pollution was put at $2.1 billion, which was about 1.3 per cent of Lagos State’s gross domestic product GDP. This is not surprising considering about 13 million of mostly old cars imported from Europe and Japan on the nation’s roads, and hundreds of thousands of inefficient generators used by households and businesses for electricity emitting thick smoke. Researchers have found fuel imported and pumped into filling stations in Nigeria as extremely toxic. They found that such fuel extremely exceeded the EU pollution limits. “Our research suggests that Nigeria is having dirty fuel dumped on it that cannot be sold to other countries with higher and better-implemented standards. The situation is so bad that the average diesels sampled are of even lower quality than that produced by artisanal refining camps in the creeks of the Niger delta,” said Florence Kayemba, SDN programme manager. The SDN report reinforces allegations made in a 2016 Public Eye investigation and a Dutch government report in 2018, that European refineries and commodity brokers were blending crude oil with benzene and other carcinogenic chemicals to create fuels hundreds of times over European pollution limits for the weakly-regulated African market. This was said to be causing significant particulate pollution, damage to vehicles, and adverse health effect s for the residents.