LAGOS  – The Edo State Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Cooperatives, Mrs. Afie Braimoh, has said that the state government is everything possible to provide an enabling environment for SMEs to thrive and contribute to the development of the state. Speaking in an interview with Daily Independent at the ongoing trade fair organized by the Lagos State chapter of the National Association of Small-Industrialists (NASSI) in Lagos, she said that the state has initiated policies and progrmmes to make the state the industrial hub of the country. She added that the government has created industrial layouts to attract the right people to build industries in the state. -Advertisement- She disclosed that there is a production heartbeat on Sapele Road where power and security are provided for SMEs round the clock, adding that “every space is occupied by SMEs, and what they do is they rent spaces, sell their produce and do all they want to do 24/ 7.” Braimoh said that the government has built production hubs in each senatorial zone of the state, adding that each hub concentrates on one product. She stated the entrepreneurs are creating value chains and many people are keying into the value chains to create value and wealth. She revealed that the government is improving the road network to give farmers access to the market. On funding, the commissioner said that the government is partnering with the likes of the Bank of Industry to provide low interest funds to small business owners in the state. “About two years ago, Governor Obaseki actually ensured the Bank of Industry gave loans to SMEs in a single digit interest to SMEs. In fact, that loan still exists till date,” she said. POLL She added that her ministry partners GIZ to train SMEs on finance literacy. According to her, “One of the things we noticed was that you keep on giving loans and many don’t know how to run or manage the business and they can’t pay back and that is why we are training them on how to manage their finances.