The Director of Research and Advocacy, Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria, MAN, Dr Olowasegun Osidipe has identified three major challenges affecting the nation’s economy, listing them to be on three-folds. Osidipe, who represented the Director General, MAN, Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadiri in chats with our correspondent on the sideline at the recent Lagos NUJ Workshop titled “AfCFTA Hurdles before Nigerian Manufacturers”, held at Airport Hotels, Ikeja, Lagos identified the three major areas to include, interest rate; foreign exchange rate as well as inflation rate. According to Osidipe, no meaningful economic growth would be achieved in the country, unless these herculean tasks are properly identified and addressed by governments at different levels. -Advertisement- He said, both governments and individuals must contribute to addressing those identified areas with the view to making positive contributions to the economy. Already, the Monetary Policy Rate, MPR, has been raised to 13 % by the MPC, while the asymmetric corridor was stable at plus 100 and minus 700 basis points around the MPR. The economic experts noted that cash reserve and liquidity ratios were unchanged at 27.50 percent and 30.00 percent respectively, while inflation has been confronted with upward pressure due to emerging risks both domestically and externally. He noted that a downward path for inflation, highlighting supply-side factors like the problem of premium motor spirits; persistent insecurity and fallout from Russia-Ukraine war, as upside risks to the inflation outlook. It would be noted that some banks recently noted that growth will continue to improve, although it remained fragile, as such, banks have ruled out an interest rate hike in light of the potentially suffocating impact of the war in Ukraine on Nigeria’s economy. POLL Beyond this, the banks emphasised that a tightening of financial conditions at home would not bring about the desired drop in inflation. They stated that a loosening of the monetary policy stance would only serve to fuel inflation, partly through triggering foreign-exchange depreciation. As such, the country would adopt to hold stance, as it would indicate a precautionary and consistent policy stance with the prevailing economic conditions, particularly as further economic and financial shocks are exerted from the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. It would be recalled that the Consumer prices rose 1.76 percent in April, up from March’s 1.74 percent. The economy reflected a stronger rise in food and non-alcoholic beverages; housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels; and clothing and footwear prices. Inflation in April rose to an eight-month high of 16.8 percent from March’s 15.9 percent. However, annual average inflation eased to 16.4 percent in April from 16.5 percent in March, while core inflation, which excludes volatile agricultural produce, came in at 14.2 percent in April, rising from March’s 13.9 percent. Inflation in Nigeria is structurally high, but it is often tolerated by the CBN, which is wary of obstructing economic growth. The jump in the consumer price index over April will be hard for the central bank to ignore. Price growth in 2022 shows no signs of slowing down, and international food and fuel prices will remain elevated as long astheRussia-Ukrainewar rages.