KADUNA – One of the contenders for the 2023 Presiden­cy on the platform of the People’s Demo­cratic Party (PDP), Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, has stated that insecuri­ty in the country will definite­ly vanish as soon as the PDP takes over power in 2023. Mohammed said this during a visit to Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi in Kaduna State on Wednesday. The governor advised that the only way to end the sense­less killings and kidnappings in the country is to kick out the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. -Advertisement- According to him, “Did you ever see this kind of ugly situation, which we are fac­ing in this country, under the leadership of PDP? We ruled for 16 years without witness­ing this kind of ugly trend bedeviling our country.” Bala said: “We cannot fold our hands and watch our in­nocent citizens being killed and kidnapped every day without doing the needful, enough is enough. “All of us are witnesses to what is happening in this country. That is why we are presenting ourselves so that we can rescue the situation from the arrogant, insolent and inefficient display by the ruling party. “For example, were you not in Kaduna during the tenure of Senator Makarfi as governor of the state? There was no religious violence, there was no insecurity. Look at what we are doing in Bauchi. We are monitoring and carrying out evaluation on secu­rity matters to make sure that lives and properties are secured. POLL “We are frequently en­gaging with the communi­ties, as well as our respected traditional institutions and stakeholders. “The above are complete­ly absent in this APC-led gov­ernment. These are some of the issues causing insecurity, including the agitations in other zones.” On the issue of his party’s (PDP) convention, he said: “Don’t forget we led this coun­try for 16 years. If you look at the previous conventions, we always came out intact. This is because it is not about indi­vidual aspirations. What we want to see as presidential aspirants and delegates is to have credible, acceptable and transparent primaries.