Abuja – The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will at its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting today decide the fate of its presidential aspirants. Some of the issues listed to be discussed that will in one way or the other affect the chances of the aspirants are the zoning committee report, approval for funds for National Working Committee (NWC) for preparation for the party’s presidential and other primaries. Other issues are the venue, the leadership that will conduct the convention and the manifesto of the party. -Advertisement- Even though some of the aspirants and other stakeholders are seriously lobbying the party to discard the issue of zoning, especially now that many of the politicians from different zones have bought the presidential forms, some party members particularly those from the South are optimistic that the leadership of the party will zone the ticket to the region. Meanwhile, Forum of PDP Former Presiding Officers of State Houses of Assembly has pledged block vote for capable presidential aspirant come May 28 during the presidential primary. The Forum, which setup a 10-man committee to interface with the presidential aspirants ahead of the primary, said that whatever the party decided on the issue of consensus, they will abide by it. Addressing newsmen shortly after their meeting, the Chairman of the Forum and former Speaker, Gombe State House of Assembly, Hon. Inuwa Garba, said that part of the mandates of the Forum is to liaise with the presidential aspirants and the PDP leadership to ensure credible and successful presidential primaries as well as victory at the 2023 general elections. The Forum called on all PDP federal members and the leadership at all levels to remain committed and dedicated to the golden ideas of the party so that “we can ensure success at all levels in the coming elections in Nigeria.” POLL Fielding questions from newsmen, the Chairman of the Forum said, “We have received submissions and interaction with most of the presidential aspirants and the Forum decided to form this committee so that we can further check and see their capacity, credibility and make recommendation to larger general assembly of the Forum.” He added that they decided to take a decision on behalf of “all of us on which candidate we can unanimously support, so that we can ensure successful conduct in the primaries and in the general election. “We don’t want our Forum members to go and vote in randomly, we want to have a block vote for a particular candidate who we agree has the capacity and credibility to win the general elections for the nation.” On their position on consensus, Garba said: “That is not part of our mandate. We are not a political party, PDP is a political party and they’ve set up a committee on this issue. Whatever the party resolves is binding on us, we are not to determine or to decide for the party.” The committee members are Hon. Inuwa Garba (Chairman); Rt. Hon. Prof. Matoh D. Dogara; Rt. Hon. Dr. Bakkita Bello; Rt. Hon. Dr. Boyelayefa Debekeme; Rt Hon. Prof. Rabiu A- Kurfi; Rt. Hon Williams Edor; Rt Hon. Jonas Okeka; Rt. Hon: Joyce Ramnap; Rt. Hon. Barr Friday Itula and Rt. Hon. Kwamoti Laori.