Revolutionist extraordinaire, Professor Omotoye Olorode has charged the Nigerian media to be alive to its responsibility of availing the masses of the ruling class economic and social order. Olarode stated this while speaking at the 2022  edition of the Annual Lecture and Award Presentation organised by Federated Chapel, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ekiti State Council with the theme “Journalism, Security, Party Politics and Election Coverage: The Way forward”. He lamented that Nigeria’s Political system as designed is being operated by the elites to further inflict more pain on the downtrodden and ostracise masses who ordinarily should be the major beneficiaries. According to him, “obverse of the ruling class, is, of course, the working class whose social base is the masses of the deprived, oppressed and marginalized. The ideology of the working class is socialism—popular democratic control of production distribution and exchange.” X-raying the ills in the system  Professor Olorode maintained that the only agenda of the ruling class is to milk the system ” consistently with the ideology of private accumulation which is based on the looting of resources and negotiating groups (“parties”) for access to those resources. According to Olorode, “Nigeria, today, is a class society; and some of us insist, while not denying the existence of other contradictions, that the primary contradiction is class. We also insist that the unending underdevelopment, inequality and generalized violence in Nigeria result from the ruling class ideology of private accumulation which benefits Nigeria’s less than one per cent. ” Nigeria’s working people, their movement and their allies may engage, as a district class, in electoral politics to expose it as the agenda of the ruling class and as mobilization episodes and moments; and that as alternative and autonomous peoples party—the device of the movement for advancing the autonomy and visibility of The Peoples Alternative Political Movement which had its roots and overall political culture in the resistance which ante-dated the 1960 Independence.” Olorode,  member, Secretariat Collective, The People’s Alternative Political Movement (TPAPM) who acknowledged some limiting factors jeopardising the functionality of the media in Nigeria noted that what the press and the journalists are asked to cover is the contest for state power among factions of the ruling class rather than the crux of the matter. POLL ” We must also address the situation of a journalist as an employee, i.e. apart from her/his private and individual interests that define his/her work. The implications of this are clear because the employer or employing organization has an interest, business, and therefore profit goals, which shape what issues are searched and researched and which political and ideological forces structure reportage! “This is equally true with regards to the increasing privatization of news production,” he said Omotoye Olorode retired as a Professor of Botany at the Obafemi Awolowo University argued that Nigeria and indeed the media had not addressed the root cause of the multifaceted insecurity confronting the nation but the only dealing with the effects. He said “Journalists and the press in general, had been selective in their reportage regarding security. They have also, on the whole, dealt with elements of the security crisis in isolated and generally disjointed, and non-holistic, ways. These shortcomings, while they may not have arisen from design, create disabilities for the public—the consumers of the products of the media and the practitioners—the journalists! He posited that only a political economy superintended by a pro-people ruling class could address the problems.”On the contrary, what the neo-liberal ruling class policies do is to exploit and intensify the variety of sources of insecurity” Olorode alleged. Earlier in a remark, the Chairman, NUJ, Ekiti State Council, Comrade Rotimi Ojomoyela, represented by the Secretary, Comrade Kayode Babatuyi, said the Council had recorded many achievements. The NUJ boss said the union had put machinery in place to check the menace of quackery and fake journalists in the state. “Our union has continued to record tremendous successes beyond our expectations, particularly in the areas of infrastructure, training of journalists and ensuring a respectable profession by putting machinery in place to checkmate impostors or quacks that have infiltrated the profession with impunity”. In his address of welcome to the Chairman, Federated Chapel, Comrade Ayodele Abere said the programme was put together to seek solutions from experts on some Germaine issues. He thanked the guest lecturer for honouring the union’s invitation and doing justice to the topic The programme also featured the presentation of awards to come eminent Nigerians amongst who are widow of Ibadan political strongman, Alhaja Bose Adedibu and a private university in Ondo State, Elizade University.