Yoruba Referendum Committee,  (Agbajoowo), a socio-political organization, has called on the Houses of Assembly in the South-West geo-political zone, which includes Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo, and the Ekiti States, to pass into law, the Bill for a Referendum, which has been sent to them, twice. The group hinges its call on the Yoruba aphorism that says, “One’s head cannot be shaved in his/her absence”, saying that the 1999 Constitution shaved the peoples’ heads in their absence. It urged the Houses of Assembly to rise to the occasion, especially as the demand is supported by a growing number of Yoruba who has signed the PETITION to that effect via the link:  http://chng.it/ybwX2ZR6Tt In a press release signed on behalf of the group by Mr Femi Odedeyi and Mr Shenge Rahman, the Committee submitted that current suggestions by notable Yoruba individuals and organizations, advocating for a Government of National Unity or an Interim Government, are direct means of subverting the legitimate quest for True Federalism in Nigeria. It argued that such a move denies the sacrosanct of the people in whom power resides but tends to arrogate power and authority to the leadership, which it said created the problem in the first instance, and cannot provide the solution.  Emphasizing that it is not calling for the cancellation or boycott of the 2023 general elections, the group recalled that in 1960, when the idea of a Government of National Unity was proposed by the Northern Peoples’ Congress, the Action Group rejected it on the ground that such a coalition government was not feasible between two political parties of vastly divergent political philosophies. It stressed that the Interim Government of 1993 was instituted as a half-measure to address the crisis emanating from the annulment of the June 12, 1993 elections. Because of its shaky foundation, it did not take long for the military that set it up to torpedo it. “There is no evidence till date that the political upheaval or crisis engendered by the ‘June 12 annulment’ has disappeared to warrant such calls. Instead of the said crisis abating, problems of structure and power rotation in the country are getting worse by the day.” While reiterating that it is not opposed to the planned 2023 elections, the Yoruba Referendum Committee said that it noted the spirited efforts of all Yoruba politicians who have declared their intention to contest for the Presidency and urged them to anchor their aspirations on not only good governance for Nigeria but also on ensuring that the Yoruba Nation and Nigeria as a whole are “rescued from the continuous cycles of underdevelopment.” the group noted.  The group then maintained that the option before the Yorubas is to organize a referendum within Yorubaland to decide the framework for their aspirations and self -actualization while also advocating a similar template for other peoples of Nigeria to facilitate the re-federalization of the country. According to the group, in advancing this course of action, the group noted that the only period of social and economic development experienced in Nigeria was during the Federal and Regional administrations, attested to by the references to the Western Region as “our Golden Era” by the Yorubas, and lately, the Buhari Administration’s recourse to showcasing its economic achievements via the “Rice Pyramid” – an admission of the developments in the then Northern Region as exemplified by the “Groundnut Pyramids”. The Yoruba Referendum Committee insisted that what it is advocating for can be achieved without having to postpone it till when successors of those currently in power take over. It called on those in the corridors of power to make “the Referendum a priority as it represents the collective aspirations of the people.“Those being called upon include Governors, Legislators, Presidential hopefuls and other aspirants into various political offices. Community, religious and opinion leaders are also called upon to ensure that this initiative come into reality to avoid being seen as part of the conspiracy against the re-establishment of the Peoples’ ownership of the apparatus of their own governance,” the statement reads. The group stated that despite the limitations of that period, the Western Region between 1951 and 1959 under Chief Obafemi Awolowo, was and is still recognized as the “Golden Era” which the 1960 Independence Act and the 1963 Constitution attempted to later neutralize by the virtue of their pernicious provisions. “Thus, the said two constitutions cannot be a foundation to build on, instead, a new constitution that takes care of our aspirations must be fashioned out anew.” “It is, therefore, necessary to have a roadmap towards creating the political, economic and cultural atmosphere that will ensure continuous and unfettered development as envisaged and pursued by the then Western Region, as a Categorical Imperative which we hereby dub as Yoruba referendum,” the group stated.