The Public Complaints Commission (PCC) Commissioner, Ekiti State office, Mr. Kayode Bamisile has decried the growing congestion at the Correctional Centre, warning that the menace could trigger right abuses and jailbreak. The PCC boss lamented that available records had shown that Ekiti is contending with a huge number of inmates far above the capacity of the centre. Bamisile, who expressed this worry on  Wednesday, during a visit to the Chief Judge of Ekiti State, Justice John Adeyeye and the office  Controller, Correctional Centre, Ekiti Command, Mr Joseph Ojo disclosed that; ” Records showed that the Ekiti Correctional Centre has a total of 668  inmates, comprising  524 awaiting trials, 130 convicted, 13 on life sentences and one on death roll.” -Advertisement- He said the PCC felt disturbed and sought partnership with stakeholders to fashion ways to curb infringement  of inmates’ rights and reduce incessant jailbreaks that had taken toll on Nigeria’s globally image Bamisile lamented that; ” Records showed that the Ekiti Correctional Centre has a total of 668  inmates, comprising  524 awaiting trials, 130 convicted, 13 on life sentences and one on death roll. “Ordinarily, this centre shouldn’t contain more than 323 inmates. Let me express here that this Commission would collaborate with relevant government functionaries to make sure that we decongest this centre”, Bamisile stated. In his response, the Chief Judge, Justice Adeyeye, hinged the preponderance of prisons’ congestion in the country on poor logistics hitting the NCC, causing a delay in conveying the accused persons to courts for a speedy trial. Justice Adeyeye said: “Let me appreciate the interest of the PCC in Prisons’ congestion that was majorly caused by many factors, but none of the factors was the making of the Judiciary. POLL “The largest number of inmates at the Correctional Centres were those awaiting trials. Some cases are genuinely pended in courts because sometimes, the accused persons would not get counsel to defend them. They must be defended based on their choices, hence, such cases would have to be adjourned. “Again, there was no time frame for a case to last, it may last as long as it remains unresolved. No case can be struck out at will, the procedures must be followed especially capital offences”. Justice  Adeyeye added that the Judiciary visited the Ekiti Correctional centre twice annually, to review cases of awaiting trial inmates, saying this was part of the ways the judiciary had been helping in decongesting the centres. Also, the Controller,  Correctional Centre, Ekiti Command, Mr. Ojo, urged the PCC to encourage the judiciary to embrace non-custodial sentencing and to decongest the various centres in the country. Ojo added that though, the Ekiti correctional centre was already filled beyond its capacity, but restated that adequate feeding, clothing, healthcare and required rehabilitations were still being made for the inmates.