Monoculture economy The Nigerian economy is monoculture, one that is largely dependent on revenue earned from the oil sector. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the sector accounts for over 95 percent of export earnings and about 40 percent of government revenues. The tag ‘major exporter of oil’ placed on Nigeria, one that is making us giddy and which has given rise to corrupt government officials and business barons, amounts to nothing since Nigeria produces only about 2.7 percent of the world’s supply. Though ranked as 15th in production at 2.2 million barrels per day (mbpd), the top three producers Saudi Arabia, Russia, and the United States produce 10.7 mbpd (11.8 percent), 9.8 mbpd (12.0 percent), and 8.5 mbpd (11.1 percent )respectively, collectively accounting for 63.6 mbpd (44 percent ) of the world’s total production. -Advertisement- In total, oil revenues, put at an estimated export rate of 1.9million barrels per day, with a projected sales price of $65 per barrel in 2011, Nigeria’s anticipated revenue from petroleum is about $52.2 billion. This accounts for less than 14 percent of official GDP figures (and drops to 10 percent when the informal economy is included in these calculations). What this means in effect is that though the petroleum sector is important, it is an infinitesimal part of the country’s economy whose other constituents are agriculture, solid minerals, services, called non-oil of the economy, in other words, the Real Sector. Neglect The non-oil sector is suffering neglect. In 2009 for instance, the sector was hit by setback as the total income generated from its export from January to September stood at US$900 million (N140.3 billion) while total amount that accrued to the country in 2008 was US$1.9 billion (N296.1 billion) amounting to a drop of 138 per cent in non-export earnings. In the same vein, according to Central Bank of Nigeria’s Q2 Economic Report, the total non-oil export earnings by Nigerian exporters in the second quarter of 2010 fell by 56.4 percent to US$297.2 million (N46.3 billion) from the level in the preceding quarter. According to Peter Onwualu, director-general/ chief executive officer, Raw Material Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Nigeria enjoys comparative advantage to produce and supply a myriad of non-oil products to other African countries, including ECOWAS countries, USA and other developed countries. Apparently explaining why Nigeria is not doing well with non-oil exports, he said “Nigeria is yet to exploit this comparative advantage to a meaningful non-oil economic growth”. Solid Minerals POLL The non-oil product in question in our story here is solid minerals. The problem in the sector is of public knowledge. Small scale artisanal miners dominate solid mineral mining. They account for between 90 and 95 percent of the output of the Nigerian solid minerals sector. They are often unlicensed, illegal operators. In other words, they are informal operators. Independent research puts Nigeria’s informal economy at between 65 and 70 percent of GNP or GNI. Nigerian labour source says 90 percent of new jobs are accounted for by the informal sector and that the sector is responsible for 80 percent of all non-agriculture employment and 60 percent of urban jobs. The solid mineral sector belongs here. It is no news that it is tough capturing data of activities in the informal sector. What this means is loss of vital revenue to government. When the number of miners are not known, it is difficult to plan the sector, it is difficult to organise the sector, it is difficult to successfully introduce modern mining technology into the sector that will make miners operate in a safe environment. It was the crude method of operation, unregulated bunch of mining operatives, that was responsible for the calamity experienced and perhaps still being experienced in Zamfara State to date. The case in point is the death of about 200 people in Zamfara from lead poisoning, arising from unregulated artisanal mining. Artisanal Miners One thing is clear here, artisanal miners need support, organisation and regulation, not just cash hand-outs from the ministry. They must be empowered and incorporated into the value chain of mineral production and marketing. The World Bank granted a credit of $120 million for the sustainable development of our mining sector. What has happened to the fund, nobody knows. Government responsibility must not stop at licensing private sector participants but must also include provision of more accurate geological information about our mineral resources. It would be recalled that the Ministry of Solid Minerals under Ezekwesili, accelerated its Geological Survey Agency to invest more in this area. There is urgent need to strengthen the Mining Cadastre Office and its freedom from ministerial and political interference is necessary if confidence must be given to investors on the security of their licences and the policy environment. Government must ease the acquisition of titles to land for mining licences.