LAGOS – Barr. Allen Onyema, the Chairman of Air Peace, has commissioned an massive guest house at the University of Ibadan as an alumnus of the institution, under the auspices of the University of Ibadan Alumni Association (UIAA). A statement by Mr. Stanley Olisa said that the commissioning took place at a special ceremony organized by the UIAA at the University, on Saturday, May 14, 2022, and attended by the Sultan of Sokoto and Chancellor of the University, His Royal Majesty, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar, Chief John Odigie, Chairman of the University Governing Council, Professor Kayode Adebowale, Vice-chancellor of the University and chief host, and the executive members of the UIAA. The statement stated that Onyema at the occasion, called for an increased funding for Nigeria’s university system and stressed that Nigerians should be proud of their institutions. -Advertisement- “We need to be proud of Nigerian universities. That’s how it was in the good old days. We need to rediscover those days”, he stated. The Air Peace boss, who was recognized with the Alumnus of the Year Award by the University in 2019, also used the medium to plead with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), to call off their strike for the sake of the nation and the wellbeing of the students. According to him, “it pains me that our children have been at home for several months. For the sake of our nation, which is passing through trying times, and for the sake of the wellbeing of our children, ASUU should, please, call off the strike. He said the Federal Government and the Union should reach an amicable decision to end the crisis in the country’s university system.” Explaining how the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) suspended its planned shutdown of operations last Sunday, Onyema stated that the operators made sacrifices to give room for the government to solve the issue, which it had done.He challenged ASUU to take a cue from what the airlines did by sacrificing for the wellbeing of Nigerian students. The Air Peace helmsman, further harped on the need for Nigerians to leverage their diversity for national development.“Nigeria has the potential. Let’s explore this potential. The bigger Nigeria is, the stronger we should be because there’s strength in diversity,,” he said. POLL He implored well-meaning Nigerians to inculcate the culture of giving back to their alma mater and be involved in its development. Lauding the UIAA President, Professor Elsie Adewoye, for her hardwork in bringing to fruition the new guest house , Onyema added that people like her should be recognised by Nigerian government. He challenged her to make good use of the influence of personalities like the Sultan and John Odigie to attract more investments to the University. In her speech, the President of the Alumni Association, Professor Adewoye, narrated how Onyema emerged as the Alumnus of the Year in 2019, and donated handsomely to the Ransome Kuti Hall where he stayed during his days at the institution. She said: “As we commission this 110million naira project today, my joy knows no bounds. Onyema is simply a blessing to humanity, a blessing to Nigeria, a blessing to UI, and no wonder you were rewarded recently with the National Productivity Order of Merit Award by President Muhammadu Buhari. Thank you most exceedingly”. Speaking, the Sultan of Sokoto, His Royal Majesty, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar, charged the school management to never let the school down. “Government cannot do it all. We need to come in and help our universities and that’s why what Allen has done is commendable. We’re here to celebrate Allen for this wonderful edifice. Allen, once in a while, come in and see how the guest house is doing. Let’s continue to excel and commit ourselves to excellence”, he added. Similarly, Chief John Odigie, Chairman of the University Governing Council, expressed. He further emphasised that the recurrent crises in Nigeria’s university system must come to an end. In the same vein, the Vice-chancellor of UI, Professor Kayode Adebowale, noted that the event was significant in many ways. “Today’s event is significant and outstanding in many ways. A testimony to the generous heart of Allen Onyema. We stand here today to commission a 110million naira building by a worthy alumnus of this institution. No condition makes a true giver unable to give. “Barrister onyema has proven this. Even with the harsh realities of the economy, he has been generous. Today, we are witnesses to his generosity”, he stated. Thanking Onyema for being so outstanding, Adebowale cited how he deployed his aircraft to rescue stranded Nigerians from South Africa in 2019 amidst the xenophobic onslaught and how he offered his aircraft to airlift Nigerians a couple of months back from different European countries, as the Russia-Ukraine war thickened.He also called on Onyema to consider setting up a Centre for Aviation Studies in UI. The immediate past president of the UIAA, Dr Kemi Emina, also commended Onyema for his consistent support and cooperation. The Air Peace boss is a proud alumnus of the University of Ibadan where he bagged an LLB Degree and has never ceased to identify with the initiatives and activities of the institution, especially through funding of specific projects. This newly commissioned building, named ‘Allen Onyema Edifice’, is a modern multiple rooms guest house at the heart of the University.