Kaduna – Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State on Thursday said Boko Haram and Ansaru terrorists are now in two local government areas of Birnin- Gwari and Giwa in the state. The governor stated this while receiving the 2022 First Quarter Security Report at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House, Kaduna. The report presented by the state Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said 360 persons were killed either by bandits, terrorists or in violent communal clash in the state between January and March 2022. -Advertisement- The governor explained that one of the kidnap victims, a roommate at the university, told him that the terrorists in one of their conversations, said the “forest in Kaduna is better than that of Sambisa so they should all relocate here.” The presence of the terrorist groups, especially in the North-West is potentially more serious and dangerous than that of the North-East, urging the military and other security agencies to take note. El-Rufai noted that with the presence of these terror groups, the problem of insecurity had moved from the North-Eastern part of the country to the North-West. This is just as the governor also muted the idea of clearing three communities of Rijana, Katari and Akilibu, all in the Kachia Local Government Area of the state, over their alleged involvement in kidnapping incidents along the Abuja-Kaduna expressway over the years. The governor said, “It is unfortunate that in spite of our investment in human, material and other resources to stem the tide of criminality in the state, the levels are still a source of concern. POLL “This presentation has brought out new emerging concerns that I will want the security council to take note of and discuss and maybe to proffer some suggestions. “The first great concern is the emergence of Boko Haram terrorists’ enclave as well as activities of Ansaru, particularly in Birnin-Gwari and Chikun Local Government Area. “Among those kidnapped from the train was a former roommate and classmate of mine who was released upon payment of a ransom and throughout the period that he was in captivity, it was very clear that the terrorists were making comments like the forests in Kaduna are even better than Sambisa, so, they should all relocate here. I think this is an area we should all be concerned about. “And that is why we have been making the point that the problem of insecurity now has moved from the North-East to the North-West. What is happening in North-West is far more serious and potentially more dangerous than we have ever had in the North-East and we will like the military and other security agencies to take notice of this before it gets out of control.” El-Rufai also expressed concern that the terrorists had got expertise in bomb-making, saying that this “because Boko Haram and Ansaru elements have moved into the state.” “The second which is related to the first is the use of improvised explosive devices (EIDs) and mines in the state. We have been lucky thanks to the police we have been able to defuse most of them without causing major loss of lives. This is still a major concern. Because this shows very clearly the movement from banditry to terrorism with expertise in making explosive devices. Again this is because Boko Haram and Ansaru elements have moved into the state,” he added. He also said approval would soon be given to the Kaduna State Vigilance Service for the recruitment of additional 1000 personnel to complement the efforts of the military, police and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism in the state. “From what we have seen, the security agencies are overstretched, we really need to ramp up our recruitment of our vigilance service volunteers, I think the 1,000 we trained have been very useful in assisting the army, the police and other security agencies and perhaps this is the time to get another 1,000 and send them to Police College for training,” El-Rufai added. Bandits Kidnap Four Female Students In Kaduna Bandits have attacked Gidan Waya community in Kaduna State where they kidnapped four female students of Kaduna State College of Education (KSCOE), Gidan Waya in Jema’a Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the students were kidnapped at Mile 1 area of Gidan Waya. Spokesperson of the Kaduna State Student Union (KADSSU), KSCOE chapter, Comrade Benjamin Fie, said their abductors have demanded huge ransom. “It’s with a bitter heart that the Kaduna State Student Union (KADSSU) of the prestigious Kaduna State College of Education, Gidan Waya, wishes to make it known to the college community and the public that four of their students were abducted,” he said. According to Fie, those abducted were Racheal Edwin, a 200 level student of Biology/ Geography Department; Esther Ishaya, 200 level student from Economic/History Department; Promise Tanimu, 200 level from English/History Department and Beauty Luka, a 300 level student from Spe/ CRS Department.” He said the “terrorists are already demanding a huge ransom for their release. We want to use this medium to urge the college community and all the students to commit themselves, the school and their parents to prayers.”