Mrs. Olayinka Falase, the Chief Executive Officer of Kampala Agro Allied Resources, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, speaks on how the government should ensure that small business owners have access to single digit loans. Excerpts: What does the company do? Kampala Agro Allied Resources is into the production of agro foods; we do palm oil, ofada rice. Our ofada rice is 100 percent stone free; if you bite a stone when you eat our ofada rice, we pay damages to you. -Advertisement- We sell spices, smoked cat fish, which is stone free, clean and gutted. We also sell powered iru, turmeric, and others, all blended. We also sell garri and kulikuli and others. Do you manufacture these products? We produce the palm oil and ofada rice; the farm is in Osun State. My friend produces the kulikuli in Nasarawa State and I buy from her and sell. How did you get into the business? Actually my late husband and I started the business in 2014 and we had a very large business and after his passing, I downsized to what I can manage. POLL How has it been so far for you? We have done well and it has been wonderful; the company is still big but I could not retain it as a limited liability company. When COVID-19 came, it affected everything and everybody but we have overcome the setback and are doing well. The company is making progress and the prospects are very bright. What challenges do you face in the business? The major problem is finance; it has been difficult to access funds to scale up the business. The banks and other financial institutions are not ready to give low interest loans to small business owners; they prefer to give loans to big businesses. Most entrepreneurs in the country do not have the collateral that the banks demand and the interest rate is too high for entrepreneurs. How do you assess the Nigerian business environment? I am in the food sector and my assessment of the sector is that it is striving; people must eat and they buy food everyday. I must admit that it has not been for us because of the impact of inflation; low purchasing power of Nigerians and other issues, the situation is getting better. The government should ensure that small business owners have access to single digit rate loans. It should also ensure that there is adequate infrastructure to make it easier to operate. However, we are committed to producing topnotch products that people will buy. Where you see the company in the next four or five years? We intend to expand and grow the company back to the limited liability status; we want to take our products to all parts of the country and export them to different parts of the world.