The former National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator John Akpanudoedehe has refused to withdraw his case at the Court of Appeal Abuja Division over the crisis rocking the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the party. Akpanudoedehe disclosed his position through his counsel, Solomon Umoh SAN when the appeal he filed against Stephen Leo Ntukekpo and 5 other elected members of the Akwa Ibom APC came up for hearing. At a resumed hearing on Monday, Akpanudoedehe informed the Court of Appeal panel that he had not withdrawn the appeal challenging the decision of the lower court on the dispute between him and five purported elected Executive members of the state chapter of the party -Advertisement- He said the appeal had nothing to do with APC national Headquarters, but with five elected members of the party in Akwa Ibom State. “They can not advice me to withdraw an appeal of my client that has paid for the service”, he added. He posited that he will never withdraw the appeal even as the National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu through his counsel insisted that Akpanudoedehe was no longer the National Secretary of APC, therefore he can not act in that capacity. But a panel of the Court of Appeal presided by Justice H.S. Tsammani could not hear the matter as the 1st to 5th defendants’ counsel insisted that Umoh had been debriefed by the party. They claimed that APC has asked Umoh to withdraw the matter. Chief Umeh Kalu SAN, lawyer to the 1st defendant, Stephen Leo Ntukekpo told the Court of Appeal that a letter dated May 6, from APC National Headquarters, signed by Head, Legal Services and addressed to Solomon Umoh and Niyi Akintola SAN had informed them and notified both lawyers of the party’s intention to withdraw the appeal as the party was bound by the decision of the lower Court. POLL Kalu said while Akintola complied with the instructions of the party, Umoh has refused to comply with instructions.Kalu further submitted that Akpanudoedehe has since relinquished the post of National Secretary of APC adding that if he has an interest he should seek the leave of the Court to pursue his personal interest. In his response, counsel to the appellant said he was in receipt of the letter dated May 5, and that the content of the said letter asked him to discontinue the matter at the High Court which he had complied with.The matter continues on Tuesday.