ISEGHE AJAYI It is no longer news that the Nigerian economy is unfavorable due to persistent rise in the cost of commodities occasioned by high inflation and foreign exchange rate. In fact, these have weakened the worth of the Naira the more, making life unbearable especially for the common folks. -Advertisement- With the unrelenting decline in the value of Naira, surviving on a single source of income has become a colossal task regardless of the social status. Besides, inflation is a respecter of nobody and if you desire to defeat it, you must be resolute to enhance your financial life by expanding your horizon. The present state of the economy does not guarantee anyone financial stability due to the constant rise in the cost of commodities occasioned by inflation. So, there is no way your monthly earnings can match the unpleasant situation especially if it is stagnated. It is quite true that everyone certainly needs money to afford the basic things of life which entails accommodation, food, education, amongst others. POLL Do you know that your inability to meet the essential things of life indicates that you are not making enough income and this may be due to poor- pay or inappropriate financial planning? A very good means of tackling financial recklessness is to have a financial plan that will guide you on how to allocate your money accordingly to take care of your responsibilities, as failure to do this, may result to a life of debt. And if you are persistently under pressure to make ends meet especially before the month runs out, either due to poor earnings or your bad financial habits, you need to take a critical look at your finances and make necessary adjustments to avoid financial stress. Besides, it can be infuriating to feel stuck in a financial depression with no way out particularly when you think that you making decent money but still find it hard to survive each month. Once it becomes a regular occurrence, don’t you think, you may either be overspending or you are not making adequate money? With this, inability to cover your bills may cause financial embarrassment to you and your family, hence the need to take a drastic step to enhance your finances if you really desire a turnaround in your financial life. However the under listed signs will enable you to examine your finances to know if you are not making adequate money: Selecting Bills To Pay If you are unable to pay all your bills due to lack of cash and resort to selecting the ones to pay every month, then you certainly have an income emergency which needs to be tackled. It is imperative to do something about this situation as soon as possible by looking for ways to lessen your bills. Working on your lifestyles will help you a long way! It may be in the area of accommodation or other luxurious things that you can truly do without. Regularly In Debt When you run out of money at the beginning of the month such that you keep complaining of how to survive a new month immediately you collect your salary, it shows that you are under financial bondage and need to work on your earnings positively. Also, if you are constantly struggling to make ends meet after a week of being paid your salary, you may be facing financial crisis. This is a clear pointer that extravagance is perhaps not the problem particularly if you are hardly able to pay your crucial bills, then you are not making sufficient money. To get out of this unfavourable financial situation, there is need to enhance your income by getting a better paid job. Depending on Credit Cards For Survival One of the major signs that you have an income problem is your inability to do without credit cards every month such that they are being used toward the end of the month to cover all your expenses. If you are always broke before the month runs out or during the month such that you solely depend on credit cards for survival, then you are most likely facing an income issue. Initially, this may not appear like a big problem, but as you run up your balance and your credit card payment goes up, the problem will only become worse. The only way you can get out of the situation is to stop using your credit card. Agreed it may not be easy especially when you do not have adequate money to cover your basic but changing to cash for your daily purchases can help you restrict your expenses Unable To Pay Yourself Regardless of your monthly bills, your inability to set aside certain percentage of your earnings for savings signifies you are not making enough money. It may seem impossible initially to save but with ensuring 5 to 10 percent of your monthly salary is paid in to an automated account each time you collect salary will do you great good. If saving is a herculean task owing to what comes in at the end of the month, try as much as possible to work on your mindset by believing that it is possible and achievable despite your bills. One way to maximise the money you have is to try and trim down or reduce your expenses sharply especially the ones that are not expedient to accommodate savings. Nothing To Slash In Your Budget When you cannot find extra money to cut in your budget, or you have reduced everything you can and still find it difficult to make ends meet, then you have an income problem. What you need do in such a situation is to spend on necessities and suspend spending on luxuries. With this, you are able to create a short-term budget to keep you on track financially pending when you financial situation improves. No Plan For Emergency Fund When you find it hard to put money aside in an emergency fund due to the fact that you have exhausted all means of having extra money when doing your budgeting for the month, handling an emergency which may come in any form may not be easy since it has to do with money. But then, failure to handle emergency will leave you with no option, but to use your credit card to solve that particular issue. With this, your credit card payments will certainly grow big enough that you might be grounded the more financially. And if you do not have any extra money to save for an emergency fund each month, even after cutting back your expenses, then you are not making enough money. Panicky About Money There is a variation between perturbing about how to pay for an unexpected car repairs and getting apprehensive whenever you think about paying for provisions or covering your rent if not fully paid for. If regular worries about money are making you to lose your sleep at night, you are probably not making enough money. Why not put your fears to good use and start making a plan that will turn your financial situation around. You can start by creating a budget, which permits you to plan out your purchases ahead of time. Depending On Credit Cards For Survival One of the major signs that you have an income problem is your inability to do without credit cards every month such that they are being used toward the end of the month to cover all your expenses. If you are always broke before the month runs out or during the month such that you solely depend on credit cards for survival, then you are most likely facing an income issue. Initially, this may not appear like a big problem, but as you run up your balance and your credit card payment goes up, the problem will only become worse. The only way you can get out of the situation is to stop using your credit card. Agreed it may not be easy especially when you do not have adequate money to cover your basic but changing to cash for your daily purchases can help you restrict your expenses.