ABEOKUTA – Three governors of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday evening stormed the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library Home of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and went into a closed-door meeting which lasted for almost two hours. The three governors; Nyesome Wike of Rivers State, Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, and Samuel Ortom of Benue State, also came with former Cross River Governor, Donald Duke to discuss the 2023 ambition of Wike. The governors arrived in a long convoy and went straight into the meeting where Wike who led the team, was later gathered, informed and seek the support of the former President of his presidential ambition. -Advertisement- Obasanjo who later led the visitors out of the meeting admitted that Wike informed him of his presidential bid, but had to wish him well. Obasanjo described Nigeria as a complex country but not difficult to manage if a “courageous leader” is elected, adding that Wike has the courage. He said, “Of course, Governor Nyesom Wike as a presidential aspirant with Governor of Oyo, Governor of Benue, former Governor of Cross River and former Deputy Senate President and former Minister to express to me the desire and of course I made the point that I have always made that, I have ceased to be a partisan politician. “I don’t belong to any political party, but if politics is the welfare of the people, I cannot cease to be a politician because I must always seek the welfare of the people. “And of course, you all know what the situation of Nigeria is and anybody who doesn’t know that, is either not a Nigerian or is not being truthful to himself or herself and we need, as I often said, no one individual can say yes I can do it because the situation Nigeria is today, we need all hands, all Nigerian hands on deck to restore Nigeria and that is what Governor Wike is saying to me. POLL “Courage, he doesn’t lack it, and if you have courage and you have the conviction to speak your mind, well you will have a saying in this part of the world that a person who speaks the truth all the time may not even get a mat spread for him because you will incur the displeasure of people. “Of course, we cannot get unity if there is no justice if there is no fairness if there is no equity. And when you have the basic ingredients that will bring unity and inclusiveness, then all other things will take their position. “You will remove conflict, you will be able to deal with this pernicious issue of insecurity and of cause, the issue of the economy and the wholesomeness of the society. “The issues he raised are the issues that are dear to my own heart for unity and stability of Nigeria. “There is one thing that I believe in and I have always said it over and over again, Nigeria is a complex country, but Nigeria is not a difficult country, if we are sincere and fair to ourselves, it is not a difficult country to manage and I wish him well.” Responding, Wike said he has the courage and capacity to tame the nation’s insecurity if elected as President, adding that he remains the only aspirant that others feared. On the lack of zoning of the PDP presidential ticket, Wike said “It’s not as if I am championing zoning, it’s provided in the constitution of PDP, section 7 (3c) provides clearly, in clear terms, unambiguous that there shall be zoning of political and elective offices. That’s what we are talking about in Nigeria. “Personal ambition will make us avoid or not do the right thing with impunity. But again, since they have decided there is no zoning, we are not running away, we have the capacity. “As it stands today, you know that I’m the only candidate everybody is afraid of. You know because obviously, I have gone round. If you put your ears on the ground. “But what we are saying is that, let’s do the right thing.”