LAGOS – For the umpteenth time in 2022, the price of Jet A1, otherwise known as aviation fuel, has climbed in the Nigerian market. This time around, the price has skyrocketed to N700 per litre in some airports, while it sells for between N685 and N690 per litre in others. The airlines through its umbrella body; Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has threatened to suspend operations from Monday due to the high price of the product. -Advertisement- But, the operators seem to be in a dilemma on airfares, as there are indications that they may not further increase the fares as they did about two months ago, despite the continuous rise in the price of the product in the local market. The airlines had in March increased the base fare to N50,000, an action, which drew condemnation and investigation from industry stakeholders and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), who accused them of price fixing. AON said that the product is now being sold at N700 per litre in the country. The airlines said that the situation was biting them hard. Also, the committee set up the Federal Government, on aviation fuel, which included five members of AON and aviation fuel marketers to develop a new pricing template for the Jet fuel, failed to reach a compromise. POLL The committee had sat for about two weeks, but a source close to the committee confided in our correspondent over the weekend that members failed to reach a common ground. Apart from the indigenous carriers, it was gathered that the situation is also affecting the foreign airlines, especially those from the West African countries that have now resorted to fueling their aircraft from their bases, rather than in Nigeria. However, unlike in the past when the product was scarce in the local market, our correspondent can confirm that the aviation fuel is available in virtually all the airports, but the high rate was causing disruption to flight services in the local scene. Besides, AON in a statement to journalists on Friday evening threatened to ground operations from Monday due to the high price of the product in the local market. The AON copied Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation and Capt. Musa Nuhu, the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) in the letter circulated to the media. AON said that it had continued to siubsidise its operations in the last four months despite the steady and astronomical hike in the price of JetA1 and other operating costs. It lamented that overtime, aviation fuel price has risen from N190 per litre to N700 currently, maintaining that no airline in the world could absorb the sudden shock from such an astronomical rise over a short period. “While aviation fuel worldwide is said to cost about 40 per cent of an airline’s operating cost globally, the present hike has shut up Nigeria’s operating cost to about 95 per cent. “In the face of this, airlines have engaged the Federal Government, the National Assembly, NNPC and Oil Marketers with the view to bringing the cost of JetA1 down which has currently made the unit cost per seat for a one hour flight in Nigeria today to an average of N120,000. The latter cannot be fully passed to passengers who are already experiencing a lot of difficulties. “While AON appreciates the efforts of the current government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure air transport in Nigeria grows, unfortunately, the cost of aviation fuel has continued to rise unabated thereby creating huge pressure on the sustainability of operations and financial viability of the airlines. This is unsustainable and the airlines can no longer absorb the pressure.” The body regretted any inconveniences the very difficult decision might cause the travelling public and appealled to travelers to reconsider their travel itinerary and make alternative arrangements. The statement was jointly signed by Alhaji Shehu Wada, Executive Director, Max Air; Dr. Obiora Okonkwo; Chairman, United Nigeria Airlines, Capt. Mfon Udom; CEO, Ibom Air and Capt. Roy Ilegbodu; CEO, Arik Air. Others are Capt. Abdullahi Mahmood; CEO, Aero Contractors, Alhaji Faisal Abdulmunaf; MD, Azman Air, Capt. Edward Boyo; CEO, Overland Airways, Mr. Sukh Mann; Deputy CEO, Dana Air and Barr. Allen Onyema, Chairman, Air Peace.