LAGOS – A Security expert and retired Major General, Pat Akem-Vingir has appealed to delegates at the forthcoming presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to shun votes selling or buying. He also admonished them to vote for VP Yemi Osinbajo, whom he described as the most prepared Presidential aspirant, in the interest of national development. Vingir, who made the call today, during a virtual political discussion, tagged ‘Think Osinbajo’ with the Osinbajo Think Tank Group, advised them to shun money bag politicians in the interest of peace and national unity. -Advertisement- “I appeal to you (delegates) to think about your children and grandchildren. Think of what kind of Nigeria you want to bequeath to them, rather than the money the money bags might give you”, he said. He noted that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is most fit for the job, adding that he has never failed in his given mandates. “I have known Professor Yemi Osinbajo for over 30 years now and I can boldly say he is the most prepared among all candidates. He is intelligent, diligent, and bold. He has a presence of mind and he knows how to build his network and teams”, he opined. Vingir, a TV host, Publisher and Life Coach, listed some possible areas of Osinbajo’s blueprint to include improved roads construction, improved health care and better security architecture. He also said that if elected as president, VP Osinbajo will loosen up the bureaucratic system that has been tying down the nation’s economy for years. POLL Vingir stated further that for Nigeria to improve as a nation, Nigerians need VP Osinbajo, whom he described as a democrat, that would put in place peaceful policies that will create more jobs. “VP Osinbajo is a democrat, who believes in the power of the state, right of Nigerians, rule of law-we have seen him act in that manner many times. So it is only right for Nigeria to give him a chance to lead us” he said. Major-General Akem-Vingir, a former Provost Marshal of the Nigerian Army, appealed to delegates across the nation to consider Vice President Osinbajo, who is a multi-ethnic sensitive man, as their preferred candidate during the party primaries. He added that the Vice President’s intellectual history matches the political tides in the country, noting that he had brought his dynamism to bear during his short stay as the Ag. President of Nigeria. “VP Osinbajo understands Nigeria, no doubt. He understands the socio-economic dynamics of the nation and the problem that is precipitating insecurity. He will definitely tackle insecurity with a new strategy that will stop the menace”, Vingir said. Major General Pat Akem-Vingir (rtd) is a lawyer, military strategist, leadership expert and coach (Certified Leadership Challenge Coach/Facilitator) and CEO BluePoint Leadership Consulting. He has a Ph.D in Criminal Justice with concentration in Global Leadership from Walden University, Minnesota, USA and the author of Winning Leadership – Strategic Leadership in a Volatile, Uncertain, Complex, and Ambiguous World.