UYO – Coach of the RS Berkane of Morocco, Jean-Florent Ikwange, has declared that it was almost a herculean task to win the 2021/2022 Totalenergies CAF Confederation Cup as his team had to lock horns with an equally good team. Recall that the RS  Berkane last night defeated the hard fighting Orlando Pirates of South Africa 6-5 through a penalty shoot-out to  lift the 2021/2022 trophy  in the TCCC finals  played at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo The match, which could not produce a winner at regulation and extra time, played into penalties for a winner to emerge. -Advertisement- Speaking at the post-match briefing, the winning Coach, Jean-Florent Ikwange said he was excited to win the trophy for Morocco,  even as the Orlando pirates were very good and had dominated the match. “Pirates was a very good team,  they have good players, they controlled the game, especially in the first half but we change the game in the second half and made more pressure in the middle. “We have the spirit to win and our players are also young, we were more combative so we won. For this victory, the team is ambitious and we played with confidence. “I am so happy about the victory, it is a victory for my country, Morocco. It is also a victory for Ghana, Congolese and Nigeria because they are with me,” he said. Our Correspondent in Uyo reports that the Orlando Pirates of South Africa who dominated the match in the first half with their superlative passes and defence were unfortunate to score a goal as the RS Berkane goalkeeper, Hamza Akbi stopped all attempts at goal. POLL However, the Captain of RS Berkane, Larbe Naji broke the table when a penalty was awarded against the Orlando Pirates of South Africa at extra time, the Orlando pirates fought back and equalised at the dying minutes of the extra time. The Orlando Pirates Coach, Mandla Ncikazi, in a post-match interview, said he was sad to lose the match because his team played well and dominated the match but could not win. Ncikazi said he was disappointed that the pirates should have won the match in the first half, but lost so many scoring chances. In his words “Honestly, I feel disappointed, we have disappointed friends at home, football fans in Nigeria and in Ghana. However, it is a disappointment, but not a bad game. “As a Coach, I take the blame for the team not winning because it is the responsibility of the coach to take the team to victory. We must have to improve because we know our deficiency and weakness to win subsequent championships.”