Ambassador Desmond Akawor, the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State, has said the Nigeria as a country should be proud of people like Peter Obi for their undying desire and consistent drive to rebuild the country, extolling the former governor of Anambra State for his undying passion to build a better Nigeria. Ambassador Akawor made the remarks when Peter Obi visited Rivers State as part of his engament and interaction with the PDP family in the state. While speaking, Akawor described Obi as one who understands the nation’s economy and has not shirked in his struggle to fix things for the benefit of all. -Advertisement- The Rock as he is fondly called is seeking the ticket of his party to run for President in 2023. According to the PDP leader, Obi is commited to the development of the country and her youthful population. “Undoubtedly, Obi is interested in the development of the country. He does not just preach about how things should be done rightly, but he shows you his track record of success in governance and tells you how he did it rightly, with verifiable evidences. “Under him, Anambra enjoyed the best road infrastructure, while developing in all fronts. “He left behind no debt and even kept a savings of N75 billion for the State, a record yet unbroken in the country. We are very proud to associate with a man like him,” Akawor said. POLL Outlining some of their challenges in the State, Akawor expressed gratitude that Obi had already identified some of their challenges on his own. “He regretted that governments at the national level has continued to pay deaf ears to their pains. In his response Obi praised the Governor of Rivers State Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for the outstanding infrastructural development of in the state. He described Wike as his brother and friend, and appreciated him for the warm hospitality he granted him in the state. He assured the delegates, and by extension Nigerians, that, if given the chance, he would turn the nation into a highly productive nation, where the youth are productively engaged in different endeavours and people are well rewarded for their hardwork.