Onome stood in the well-decorated church hall and waited for his bride, there was no sign she was going to show up. Everybody was already seated and time for the harmonization had past, yet the bride and her family were nowhere to be found. Her phone was switched off. When it dawned on him that she was never going to come and the wedding was never going to take place, he wept uncontrollably like a child. “How could she abandon me on my supposed happiest day,” he asked himself. He thought he had won her heart when she agreed to marry him. -Advertisement- Just like a nightmare, it turned out to be true – she had developed cold feet and decided not to continue with the marriage. Now, the girl is set to wed another person and Onome, who is obviously angry with her, is seeking revenge. “I was blindly in love with my ex. I loved her so much that I never noticed the red flags that were so glaring. She was a beautiful girl, no doubt. She was a medical doctor and had a good heart, everyman’s dream woman. But she was the kind of person that didn’t know what she wanted for herself. She was always wavering, today she would say she loved me, the next day she wanted another person. “When I was coming for her hand in marriage there were other guys seeking her hand in marriage, too. In fact, my close rival stayed outside the country, despite the distance, he disturbed me so much, because it was obvious that she preferred him to than me. The guy in France was always sending her money and gifts, my little gifts was like a drop of water in an ocean. I noticed she quarreled more with this guy abroad, and any time they quarreled, she would be so sweet with me. I think I was her second option. I knew I was not as rich as the guy abroad, but I was ready to bring down heaven for her sake. I didn’t mind then being an option as long I had the opportunity to be with her. “She refused to have sex with me, all she allowed me to do was to touch and caress her. She usually complained that I didn’t know how to kiss, so she didn’t allow me to kiss her. I was still okay with that. Almost every day I bought lunch and took it to her office. I would buy provisions and supplements for her – what I had never done for my mother. POLL “The day I proposed to her, she rejected my proposal, thank God we were inside my room. Nobody saw it, but she later accepted after I persuaded her. Then the wedding preparation started. I noticed she was not happy. She was having this ‘pepper body’ over everything. When we went for counseling, she did not mince words as she said awful things about me. I just told myself everything would be okay after marriage. I carried her like an egg and ensured I did everything that pleased her so that she would not change her mind. “On the day of the wedding she never showed up. It was like a conspiracy. Her parents never showed up, too. Although her mother was against our marriage from the beginning, she later accepted me. We waited for her arrival forever. I was sweating under the fully-air-conditioned church auditorium. I was embarrassed. I called her number but she had switched it off. It was the father who later came to the church to announce that her daughter was sick and had been rushed to the hospital. It was a lie, a cover-up. He refused to disclose the name of the hospital. That was how she left me stranded on the altar. I wept like a baby. I couldn’t go home. It was from the church that my friends whisked me to Cross Rivers State. “Now she is getting married to that same guy abroad. I am yet to get over this. I am planning something bad for her. I refused to accept the bride price I had paid from her people because if I couldn’t have her nobody else should.” Dear Onome, why do you want to hurt yourself even more by holding onto what was never yours. From your narration, it was obvious this lady never loved you as much as you did, and she probably didn’t see herself becoming your partner forever. I know it’s painful but please don’t go ahead with this revenge – revenge won’t do you any good; you will only get more hurt. Do you know the best revenge? It’s getting yourself together, and after you are completely healed, getting married to another lady and living happily. There will come a day when you will appreciate the lessons learned and the growth you were only able to experience by getting back up.