IBADAN – The senator representing Oyo Central district, Teslim Folarin on Tuesday has declared his gubernatorial ambition under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the party primaries. As he also declared that the governor of the state, Engineer Seyi Makinde cannot perform better than what he is presently doing as well as lack the ability to secure  the state. It could be recalled that Makinde was elected on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019. -Advertisement- Folarin, however said that the governor has failed the people of the state especially in the area of security. Folarin, while declaring his gubernatorial ambition ahead of 2023 election on the platform of APC, said that Makinde cannot perform better than what he is doing, because he cannot differentiate between the king and the chiefs. Folarin, who flanked by the APC Chairman in the state, Mr. Ajiboye Omodewu and some members of the national assembly among whom are Senator Abdulfatai Buhari, Hon. Akin Alabi, Musliudeen Akinremi and Shina Peller, said that no place is safe in the state. He however called on people of the state to vote wisely by rejecting the government that is taking their security for granted. Folarin, while speaking further, said that he intended to bring the political structures of all the past governors of the state together to bring new lease of life to the state. POLL According to him, “He cannot do more than what he is doing. Then, he went to invite one crazy dog to be killing people in the state. “He does not know the difference between the king and the chiefs. He is fighting politicians, he has also fought the king. “Security is paramount, this place where we are, there is no security here. Look at the man they killed at Iwo Road last year, his mother has developed stroke. “If they slap us one time, we will slap them three times. I want the people to support me to run as Oyo state governor in 2023. “What I want to do is that I want to bring all the past and present leaders in the state together to bring new lease of life to the state”.