A former Presidential candidate of the Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) in the 2019 presidential election, Ambassador Felix Johnson Osakwe, has vowed to be Nigeria’s next president after President Mohammadu Buhari leaves office in 2023. Osakwe who is now an aspirant on the platform of the Action Alliance (AA) stated this after he submitted the expression of interest and nomination forms for the party primary ahead of the presidential contest. While in the company of a mammoth crowd of party faithful and supporters, Ambassador Osakwe who had picked up his forms from the national secretariat of his party in Abuja, over the weekend submitted the same on Wednesday, as he vowed to defeat whoever stands on his way to Nigeria’s presidency. -Advertisement- He said, “I will be the next democratically elected  President of Nigeria and would be sworn in on May 29, 2023, by God’s grace.” He said that he is the most qualified Nigerian to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari also stressing that the nation needs a versatile and widely respected and exposed personality to lead the country out of the woods while accusing the leaders of being bereft of ideas on how to lead a modern nation-state. Osakwe said that the over 200 million Nigerians need a new lease of life adding that he is coming on board the AA train to exit the country and her citizens from the spells of bad governance. Security, education, massive youth empowerment and capacity building, integration and peaceful collaboration of all segments of the Nigerian society, job creation and employment through massive capacity, the Ukwani Delta State-born human developer said are his major priorities. The clergy and politician pointed out too that food sufficiency shouldn’t be a problem in a nation with the vast arable land as Nigeria and to this end, he ensure that Nigerians produce massively what they consume and even export to nations of the world. POLL “The refineries will work effectively, we shall link the Nigerian gas resources with the west for massive foreign exchange and force down the dollar rate for our people to live prosperously. “We shall attack the monolithic nature of our economy and diversify same to build a strong and virile nation from the ashes of the obviously misgoverned nation,” Osakwe added. Also at the forms submission event in Abuja, a northern socio-political organisation, the Arewa Recruiters, AR, endorsed Osakwe for Nigeria’s presidency. According to the leader of the group, Ibrahim Ishaq, he said that the country has need a “suave, polished, educationally exposed man of good conscience” to succeed the incumbent in office. “Arewa Recruiters have found in Ambassador Osakwe the man with sufficient capacity to lead the country into unity and prosperity,” Ishaq said.