Chief Emeka Charles Kalu, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, is National Coordinator, Peoples Democratic Party Coalition (PDPCO) as well as Director General, Global Initiative for Good Governance (GIGG). As Nigeria enter the new year Dr. Kalu, former governorship candidate in Abia State, in this interview with EJIKEME OMENAZU, he spoke on the recent exit of Dr. Peter Obi, former governor of Anambra State and presidential aspirant from PDP few days to the party’s presidential primaries, among other issues. Excerpt: As a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), how do you see the sudden exit of Mr. Peter Obi from the party? From the look of things, Mr. Obi’s resignation came as a surprise in the first instance. On the other hand, it was well expected. The reason is that the PDP was supposed to have zoned its presidential slot to the South East to balance the long denied equity considering the major political challenges confronting the polity. Mr. Obi has been a decent and focused personality who never allows sentiment, calumny and resentment to possess his clear leadership antecedents. His resignation from the party must have emanated from the rising motion of unfairness, lopsidedness and distrust presently greeting the leadership of the party. On a serious note, this situation calls for immediate creation of a level playing ground for reconciliation and harmonisation to save the party from possible failure now and in future. Nigeria cannot grow in the face of schemes of manipulation and ethnic bigotry. -Advertisement- How do you see the impacts of Peter Obi’s resignation on South East political potentialities? Actually, Mr. Peter Obi’s exit from the party has created a large frame of vacuum on the South-East political space. As one of the frontline contestants from the region, his departure from the party is likely to cause most of his supporters to follow suit which, I think, is bound to affect the party through loss of membership. In South East, the people believe in the feasibility of a leader’s action plans for development and that is what we call capacity in politics. Chief Obi is popularly respected in Nigeria not because of his personal wealth, but simply due to his open door public administration strategies. So, South East, like other parts of the country, confide in him and his resignation will not only create lapses in the party, but also will weaken its chances of winning the 2023 presidential and general elections. With the current situation, what do you advise South Easterners on the coming election, especially at it concerns 2023 Presidency? Yea, Global Initiatives, as a political transformation gospel team, has severally and repeatedly clamoured for Nigeria President of Igbo extraction, but instead of stakeholders from the zone to build on the system, they went ahead to truncate it out of greed and lack of united mentality to stand under one umbrella. I advise that South East presidential aspirants from all the political parties to retire within 15 hours from now to field a consensus candidate on their behalf in order to redeem their image before the soil of posterity. This shows unity and firmness of purpose in every line of endeavours. How would you describe PDP under its current National Chairman, Dr. Iyorcha Ayu so far? POLL In fact, under Ayu, PDP could be said to be gradually sliding to instability. It is pertinent to speak out at this critical time that Nigerians are trusting God for a rebranded PDP leadership capable of forming a new national government come 2023. But, it seems our party is getting it wrong in terms of strengthening of policy and unity of purpose. The level of perceived injustice and hijack of the popular will of the people in favour of some anointed aspirants vying for different elective positions that greeted the ongoing primaries is a clear indication that PDP is propagating seeds of discord that could jeopardise her chances of emerging victorious in 2023. Democracy is important because it accommodates popular participation just as sovereignty always belongs to the people from whom the government derives its power and authority. So, if that is the case in the context of party politics, why the open slap and rape on the integrity of democracy! A case studyis what happened in Enugu, Abia and other states during the State House of Assembly, House of Representatives and gubernatorial primaries, where some frontline aspirants who have been the major backbone of party from the inception, distanced themselves from participating in the primaries due to perceived irregularities and deceit in the three-man ad hoc delegates lists. Few days ago, Mr. Peter Obi, a prominent presidential constant, resigned from the party complaining lack of unity of purpose and distorted planning as one of his reasons for a walk-out. With this level of instability, how would the party achieve excellence in 2023 general elections? The same prime reasons that made so many stakeholders leave the party in 2014 that resulted in the party’s loss of presidential election in 2015. We must hearken to defend the truth by working to stop what is billed to stop us. How could this be possible when people have always seen the PDP as a family? Yes, PDP is a family. But it is urgently expected to re-plan and harmonise on the structures before things get out of hands. Major stakeholders are not comfortable with the present cobwebs folding and limiting the tentacles of the party towards achieving victory in 2023. Therefore, it is crystal clear that PDP is sure to lose election into the office of the President if this impunity is not confronted and penalised. Some of the PDP serving governors got their flags to run for Senate in 2023 under hatched and guided arrangement, while imposing non-prominent candidates to run for governorship elections simply because they believe they are their favourite choice. What do you think the party’s leadership should do at this time to prevent a major crisis, still with the eyes on victory? I want to use this opportunity to call on the PDP’s National Working Committee (NWC) leadership under the sportsmanship of Dr. Iyorcha Ayu to rob and blink their eyes by working to galvanise the party in such a way that could provide it with a promising platform of taking the field day in 2023. Imposition of unpopular, incapacitated and visionless candidates for various elective offices and lack of harmonising zoning formula for equity and fair play are the major dragging ropes gradually pulling the party into the pit of failure whether anybody likes or not. ‘Simple Truth Spoken’, Dr. Ayu’s leadership of People’s Democratic Party has germinated and grown fruitless trees of lopsidedness, while major stakeholders keep watching in muteness because of mere pot of beans bribe and envelopes of fat cash that purchased their conscience. Our concern as an ardent supporter and promoter of this great party is to ensure that it does not fail despite who feels harmed by our gospels of truth and sincerity. An army of stakeholders will likely defect to other parties after the Saturday (yesterday) fixed presidential primaries due to grievances of unfair treatment. In party politics, you consider ethnic inclusiveness, stakeholders’ hardwork, commitment and the people’s will in allocating seats and positions, if unity and solidarity are to continue to beautify the face of the party. How do you see the invasion of Chief Rochas Okorocha’s Abuja residence by the detective team of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and his subsequent arrest? Honestly, I condemn such act in totality for the anti-graft agency to forcefully brake into the residence of a senior citizen of Nigeria in order to arrest him. I think there are other ways of handling the matter at stake than forcefully invading his house as if EFCC operatives were looking for a common criminal. Chief Rochas is a serving Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The agency could have as well written to the Senate or even referred to his Imo State Senatorial District Office before breaking into his residence. No indicted public office holder had been treated this way in the history of democracy. Be it APC or any other party in power, sovereignty belongs to the people and it is expected that the right thing be done in the eyes of the law. Chief Rochas Okorocha is not a common criminal and he happened not to be the only indicted politician in Nigeria facing financial misconduct charges. Other past political office holders had been severally accused of misappropriation of funds and their abodes were not invaded even in the face of repeated invitations. This is against democratic principles. His indictment by the EFCC is not our headache. Yes, he needs to be probed as stated in law. But, his house does not need to be attacked in an attempt to arrest him.