ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has shared stakeholders’ concerns over the recent politicization of key institutions like the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) vis-a-vis the storage of sensitive materials ahead of the 2023 general election. Prof Mahmood Yakubu, INEC Chairman who was fielding reporter’s questions at Thursday’s quarterly Consultative meeting with Media executives in Abuja, agreed that the recent development where the top public officer in the apex bank joined the political fray has raised serious questions that border on disposition of the apex bank to nonpartisan handling of sensitive materials. Recall that the Godwin Emefiele, the Central Bank Governor had been enmeshed in partisan Politics as sponsored groups bought the APC Expression of interest and nomination form, as they urged him to run for president in 2023. -Advertisement- The CBN Governor himself has pandered to the request and literally threw himself into several controversies before the recent directive issued by President Mohammadu Buhari for the Aspirants to resign their offices. The INEC Chairman said the commission is worried just like other Stakeholders especially that the apex bank play pivotal role in ensuring the safety and security of sensitive materials which it also distribute on behalf of the commission. He noted that since the CBN handles this very sensitive task for INEC because of the confidence it enjoys as an agency that was insulated from partisan Politics, he pointed out that the Commission is not oblivious of the implications of the recent development. In this regard he said INEC is considering other partnership with other entities because of the credibility of the process, adding that INEC would consider alternatives.. “We still have nine months before the general election and we will see what we can do to sustain the confidence Nigerians have in the electoral process”, the INEC Chairman said. POLL A senior staff of the commission who shared his concern expressed worry that the apex bank has become suspect and partisan despite the resignation of Emefiele. On the huge nomination fee adopted by the Political Parties, Prof Yakubu said the electoral Act does not cover that area adding that the Commission is handicapped in regulating that aspect of activities of Political Parties. He how gave indication that the commission will continue to work with anti graft agencies to bring in some sanity. He equally disclosed that all Political Parties have so far complied with with the submission of membership list of their members.