According to reports, Arsenal and Serie A side Napoli are both ‘trying to lure’ in Hoffenheim midfielder Florian Grillitsch ahead of the summer transfer window. Back in February, Arsenal and Newcastle United were linked with the midfielder. The former Werder Bremen player has been with Hoffenheim since 2017. He has played 150 times for the German outfit across all competitions. -Advertisement- Grillitsch has been a key player for Hoffenheim and he has also been a regular for Austria. He has been capped 33 times at senior level. SportBILD (via Sport Witness) are reporting that Arsenal and Napoli are ‘trying to lure him in’. Sevilla are also interested in him and the player ‘intends to’ take his time before making his final decision. The 26-year-old is out of contract in June and he will ‘explore his options’. It is also stated that he ‘really wants’ to play in the Champions League. Arsenal currently sit fourth in the Premier League with four games to go. Napoli meanwhile have already secured Champions League football for next season. POLL Meanwhile, Arsene Wenger has suggested that Unai Emery was unfairly treated at Arsenal as the Premier League club didn’t give him enough time. When asked about Arsenal’s treatment of Emery, Wenger replied on beIN Sports: “They didn’t give him a lot of time.” Emery has won the Europa League four times in his career as a manager but Wenger has questioned the format of the competition. “But as well, there’s a lot to talk about because, for example, is it right that the teams who are not successful in the group stage can play the Europa League?” Wenger asked. “Because out of ten years, the teams who are not successful in the Champions League were winning the Uefa Cup. So that transformed a non-success into a success.” On whether the Europa League was rewarding teams for failure, former Arsenal boss Wenger continued: “It was more to give an importance to the trophy than to reward the sporting quality. “But I think Unai Emery’s a great coach, that he has shown it in Spain again and he is constantly there at the top level.”