LAGOS – Jeremiah Mayowa, JeroidNG CEO has given accolades to JeroidNG team for perseverance and hard work to lead the company to the peak in its game. The cryptocurrency trading expert reverted on how he kept his business moving through hardworking workers who are zealous to lead JeroidNG to attain success and stay relevant in the business. He stated this while he surprisingly celebrated Jeroid Team for loyalty to the company’s primary assignment with an intriguing surprise at the office to appreciate their effortless contribution to the growth of the company. -Advertisement- “Staffs and customers are the pillars that strengthen the growth of every business; however, appreciating these duo is a significant milestone to encourage staff to work harder and persuade customers to constant patronage. According to him, a working business can be achieved through collective work by the staff, whom he presumes should be appreciated through compensations and fair treatment. He specially acknowledged the Manager, Enobun Williams, for her shared commitment to pushing the company forward and putting it on the map. He appreciated his staff through a monthly bonus for best primary duty leading staff and hang out at cinemas and game houses. He also developed an innate attitude of steady giving away from the best trending customers and calling the best customers to show appreciation amongst monetary reward for constant patronage, as well as hang outs. POLL The E-commerce giant boasts of over 100,000 subscribers using its platform to meet their trading needs. He said that the platform also has a dedicated support staff that are on standby to help through any problem. “There is Oxcart by Jeroid, an arm of the company which solves the problem of shipping of goods from overseas to Nigeria and vice versa, while also being focused on partnering with local and international top brands in USA, China, UK, with several other countries being added soon. “JeroidNG has grown from what started as an idea to a team of over 20 employees within its Headquarters in Lagos, changing lives and creating self-made millionaires—all with their trading strategies.