The National Association Of Proprietors Of Private Schools (NAPPS) has advocated for a review of the Child’s Rights Act to cover emerging issues relating to the protection of children. National President of NAPPS, Chief Yomi Otubela stated this on Friday in a message marking the 2022 edition of the Children’s Day celebration in Nigeria. The association emphasised that this has become imperative given fresh challenges children face aside from the rights to identity, education, health, family life, protection from violence, opinion, armed conflicts and exploitation covered by the Child Rights Act. -Advertisement- He said, “I must admit that in the last few years, Nigerian children have had a fair share of the insecurity challenges that have continued to ravage the country. This has manifested in form of kidnappings, killings, raping, etc in schools. “The Child’s Rights Act should be reviewed to accommodate other emerging issues relating to the protection of children,” he advocated. Besides, Chief Otubela urged states in Nigeria that are yet to adopt the Child’s Rights Act in their laws to do so in the interest of the children. He added, “I, therefore, appeal to both the states and the Federal Government to ensure that our children are properly protected in our various schools to go about their academics safely. This calls for government security operatives to collaborate with the internal security arrangements in schools for effective monitoring around schools.”In line with the safety protection approved by the government, NAPPS seeks a well-formulated and implementable comprehensive Safeguarding and Child Protection policy. Speaking on the theme of the Children’s Day celebration tagged:“Building a Safeguarding and Child Protection Policy Toward A Safe Learning Environment for the Nigeria n Child”, the association enjoined school owners, educators, and administrators to take absolute responsibility to ensure the safety of the children put in their care. POLL Furthermore, NAPPS encouraged home-school collaboration as further measures to protect learners and safeguard their rights, saying parents should always check and put in place appropriate restrictions on the use of technological devices such that learners are not open to viewing sites with adult content. The statement called on parents to closely watch their behaviours and social media content they share as they use digital technologies throughout the day, or as they allow their children to access these technologies, saying deliberate attention to the affectionate and emotional needs of children is important.