Blessing Awah, the founder and chief executive officer of Assian Natural Cosmetics, a skin care company based in Lagos, in this interview with IKECHI NZEAKO, gave reasons why Africans, especially Nigerians, should not bleach their skin and why they should use natural cosmetics. Excerpts: Tell us about Assian Natural Cosmetics? Assian Natural Cosmetics is into the manufacturing of high quality natural skin care products and we make our products with locally sourced raw material. -Advertisement- We do not engage in the importation of raw materials and by so doing we are adding value the Nigerian economy immensely. Why did you decide to go into this line of product? The aim and purpose of our product is to maintain the African skin that we are blessed with. As Africans, we are always intrigued by the complexion of white people and want to be like them and forget that we are blessed with a skin that has melanin, which protects us from ultraviolet rays of the sun. Our skin is part of our skin and identity and we should be proud of it. What we are doing is to restore the confidence of African women, men and children in their skin with our products. POLL We are telling them that, no matter your complexion, you are beautiful; all you need are products that enhance and protect your skin without beaching out the skin. How have the products fared in the market? So far so good; the response has been welcoming and people have accepted the products and those that have used our products testified that they are good and effective on the skin. People are beginning to accept made in Nigeria products and this is encouraging to. Initially people were skeptical about buying and using the products but that changed over time and the products are high in demand. We told people about the advantages of using the products and they have accepted them. It has been good and encouraging. How do you compare made in Nigeria products and imported ones? Made in Nigeria products have good quality but those made in Europe, America and Japan have better packaging. They have better machines and technology and they have the support of their respective governments and it is high time the Nigerian government put policies and programmes that encouraged small businesses to thrive in the country. How have you fared in terms of accessing funding? It is not easy for small businesses in the country to access funding; we are a self-funded company and we need funding to scale. Despite the funding challenge, our products are topnotch and we striving to improve our finishing and packaging. Our major challenge is funding; if we are able to access the right funding, we will buy more machines and produce more and we will have economy of scale. We need funds to take company to the next level. 