A suspected ritualist, Tiamiyu Abass aged 29 has confessed killing one Barakat in Oyo town with intention of using her for money rituals. Tiamiyu, a self-acclaimed cleric paraded along with 30 other suspects at the Oyo State Police Command Headquarters, Eleyele Ibadan on Tuesday. The suspects were arrested for different cases ranging from murder, armed robbery, and child trafficking among others. Briefing journalists over the development, the state Police Commissioner, CP. Ngozi Onadeko fdc, explained that on 15th May 2022 at about 1830hrs, one Oyerinde Gbadegein ‘m’ reported at Atiba Divisional Police Headquarters that about 1300hrs of the same day, a corpse was seen dumped by the side of a stream at Jibola Afonja street Oyo town. -Advertisement- She noted that on receipt of the complaint, a team of detectives from the Atiba Division swung into action and proceeded to the scene, it was discovered that the corpse was that of a lady of about 25yrs packed in a sack bag which was already decomposing with the head, hands, toes and flesh from the thigh cut off from the body. One Alfa Tiamiyu Abass ‘m’ was arrested in connection with the case. Onadeko in her address maintained that upon interrogation, the said Alfa Tiamiyu Abass ‘m’ confessed to having killed the deceased one Barakat ‘f’ who happens to be his customer. He stated further that he with one Qudus ‘m’ now at large perpetrated the act. A search was conducted in his house and all the parts removed from the deceased body were recovered. She however confirmed that investigation is ongoing to arrest the said Qudus who is currently at large for possible prosecution. Speaking with newsmen, Tiamiyu Abass said, “Baraka used to be my client, she used to come to me for different charms, mostly love charms, on that day she came and we agreed that she will sleep over in my place because she demanded for a wrist bead, which I agreed to do for her, but suddenly I stood up in the middle of the night and strangled her to death. “After have confirmed that she is dead, I cut off all parts that I needed for the money ritual, I cut her head with machete as well as her toes, both hands and little portion of her flesh on her left thigh, I was arrested when her dismembered body was found in a nearby bush that I dropped it, and all the parts I removed from her body was found inside my room, all that happened is a work of the devil, I regretted my actions.” Tiamiyu said. POLL Other exhibits found in his possession are one knife, a cutlass, a red small cloth, two wooden boxes, and three black local pots used for burning the dismembered parts of the victim. The remains of the victim according to the State Police Commissioner has been deposited at the morgue of the Police Clinic inside rte Command Headquarters.