ABUJA – Some concerned stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have cried out over the arm-twisting tactics adopted by Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led APC National Working Committee (NWC) against the Political aspirants who are paying exorbitant fees to obtain the party’s forms. The stakeholders who spoke under the aegis of APC Rebirth Group have therefore urged the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu to review some of the forms accompanying the nomination and expression of interest forms being purchased by aspirants in the party ahead of the 2023 elections. Aliyu Audu, Convener of the group observed with concern that one of the forms, tagged form 18 ‘withdrawal letter,’ which aspirants must fill and endorse curtails the rights and freedom of aspirants to pursue their legitimate aspirations without any coercion. -Advertisement- Audu stressed that form 18 which dubiously compel aspirants’ to voluntarily withdraw from the race ahead of the primaries in which they will be taking part amounts was a tacit coercion and violation of the freedom of aspirants to freely decide on their own. “At what point, for instance, would the party activate the signed form of withdrawal by aspirants? Anticipated withdrawal from an election that has not yet been conducted, such as the one being solicited via form 18, would not give aspirants the needed confidence in the process, and the party would do well not to give the impression that it is working to suppress the rights of members to fair and transparent contest. “While the party, through its secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, did say the signing of form 18 was optional, the fact that such caveat was not indicated on the form makes such claim highly suspect. Moreover, once an aspirant appends his signature to the declaration page of the form, he has inadvertently validated all the information or commitments on any part of the form. “We are therefore calling on the party to clarify its position on this contentious issue of form 18 in particular in order to reassure aspirants of the party” he said. The APC Rebirth Group would also like to use this opportunity to call on the party to take a definitive position as regards section 84 (12) of the amended Electoral Act which requires appointees of government seeking elective positions to resign before taking part in the primaries. This is necessary in order for the APC not to create an impression of wanting to reap off aspirants before taking a decision. It’s also necessary that we do this on time so that the party does not fall into the avoidable situation of contravening an important provision of the Electoral Act. POLL Already, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiala has pointed out the likely consequence of fielding candidates who refuse to comply with this requirements of our electoral law. It’s therefore our hope that the party would listen to voices of reasons and state its position on this important subject clearly and without any form of equivocation. Finally, we would like to appeal that the party leadership should be deliberate, transparent, firm and just in order to ensure free, fair , credible and rancour free primaries to prevent or reduce possible ligations afterwards.