Youths in Nigeria, particularly Ekiti State have been enjoined to lead the advocacy for voters’ integrity and violent-free election if they better deal in the democratic process. Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Femi Falana gave this admonition in Ado-Ekiti while speaking at a Southwest Youth and Women Conference organised by New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD) and Balm in Gilead Foundation for Sustainable Development (BIGIF). The event, sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development, National Democratic Institute and United Kingdom Agency for International Development, was intended to promote the ‘Vote not Fight initiative’, in Ekiti and Osun governorship polls. -Advertisement- The senior lawyer noted that until the youths free themselves from their oppressors who often induce them into violence and brigandage during elections, their demand for better treatment from the system. could be a mirage. The human rights activist lamented that Nigeria is experiencing the worst political trajectory adding that her democracy had been replaced with plutocracy where only a few corrupt public officials now have access to power. The  Program Director of NDI, Bem Agar explained that part of the work of the body in Nigeria is promoting the political and socio-economic rights of the marginalised groups like women in youths. He hinted that the vulnerable groups formed a significant percentage of the nation’s population. The NDI officer, however, said that the collaborating civil society organizations were able to carry out their activities in the areas of awareness and consensus building with the support of the international organisation. POLL In her remark, NIGAWD  Boss called on the governorship candidates and other stakeholders present to continue working with its youth population in the development of a detailed action plan. Aladejare-Salako disclosed that NIGAWD  is pleased to be supporting the very important work that INEC. the Police and other critical stakeholders are doing to improve the electoral processes and consolidate our democracy in Ekiti state and Nigeria at large through the implementation of the Vote Not Fight; Election No Be War Campaign in southwest Nigeria. ” The development ideas and emerging results from the collaboration between the Ekiti State stakeholders and its youth and women demographics are admirable. Perhaps this is the reason Ekiti Youth and Women Agenda Advocacy campaigns and other developmental initiatives continue to thrive and enjoy immeasurable support from concerned stakeholders. ” The youth are the promise of every society who must actively contribute to the political and socio-economic development of their countries. As we are all aware, the time for Ekiti state to elect the next Executive Governor will present itself on June 18, 2022. The conduct of youths and stakeholders in the off-cycle governorship election will not only inform the world’s opinions about us; it will also set the trend for the Osun off-cycle governorship election and 2023 general elections. Hence the need for all stakeholders to synergize and consolidate on efforts aimed at promoting peaceful election campaign and constructive participation of young persons in the electoral process which will lead to a violence-free, fair and credible election.”