LAGOS – Mr. Olawale Wasiu Oluwo, from the Epe Division of Lagos State, on Wednesday formally announced his intention to seek the nomination of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Office of Governor of Lagos State. Speaking at the declaration, which was held in Ikeja, Olawale Oluwo said his motivation was altruistic, just as his sense of commitment to the people of Lagos is absolute. In an address tagged: ‘Lagos State, A New Dawn Beckons’, the aspirant stated, “I was born and bred in Lagos and have lived practically all my life in Lagos State. I know Lagos and Lagos knows me. -Advertisement- “I do not have the privilege of being an indigene of another state because my maternal and paternal origins are deeply rooted in Epe, Lagos State. Speaking on his ambition to replace the incumbent Governor Sanwo-Olu, the aspirant promised to provide the leadership for a new team that would work to restore the dignity of Lagos State and re-establish its leadership position as it was known by Lagosians. He said, “To put it bluntly, I am running for office to realise the following reset Lagos State on a new trajectory of security and inclusive prosperity; return the wealth of Lagos to the people of Lagos (the true owners); birth a fairer Lagos that creates an opportunity for all, not just for a few; involve youths in governance, to prepare them for fast leadership transition. He listed other reasons for his interest to include restoration of the sovereign power of the people; re-establish the status of Lagos as a reference point for free democratic practice; implementing reforms in critical sectors for GDP growth, revenues and jobs; intensifying industrialisation drive, leveraging energy and infrastructure; transparency, progressivism, inclusivity, and protection of minority rights and reposition Lagos as a globally competitive investment destination. He added that the programmes he would implement would be an effective reform-minded administration that will emphasise among others security, energy (Electricity, petroleum products, gas, renewables), transportation (Efficient movement of GPS- Goods, People &Services), sustainable financing/Empowerment (to create entrepreneurs), creative economy, entertainment, sports and technology, Human Capital Development and physical and social infrastructure, particularly Health and Education. POLL On the upcoming APC primary elections to choose the flagbearer of the party for the governorship race in March 2023, Oluwo who said God remains his ‘God Father’, assured his supporters that he would be participating in the primary election as an aspirant. He solicited the support of the APC eligible voters as captured in the members register used for the March 20, 2022 election as their preferred candidate to fly the party’s flag as a governorship candidate. Oluwo lauded the steadfastness of members of the party in the state and called for the consolidation of the position of the party in the state by working together as one big family. He reminded them that the choice of the candidate the party would present to voters in 2023 would be a critical success factor in this regard, saying an aspirant in his status and commitment would address endless time spent in traffic, resolve inadequate power supply, when the federal regulations have since allowed state governments to generate off-grid electricity and distribute it via DISCOS, solve massive unemployment and financially empower people to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams, redress the deteriorating ease of doing business environment that fails to protect small business owners from harassment, extortions and multiple levies/charges and address security issues, particularly robbery, ritual killings, mob lynching, kidnappings, cultism, gang rivalry, arms proliferation and sundry crimes, among other challenges facing governance in the state. He added, “I represent the face of that new leadership and urge our party members to support me as the flagbearer of the party. We are members of one big APC family. A lot of things have changed since the last elections in Lagos State, we must now put the people first in all that we do if we are to retain power in Lagos in 2023.”