“I will fight very hard to be there,” says a determined Ansu Fati, just days before making his highly-anticipated comeback against Mallorca. “To be with the national team is always a dream of mine, especially during a World Cup. I’ve dreamt about winning that trophy my whole life, so let’s see.” On November 23, 2022, in their opening game of Group E, Luis Enrique’s Spain will be hoping to improve on their last World Cup performance when they face Costa Rica or New Zealand at the 40,000 capacity Al Thumama stadium. Germany, an often reliable pick to go far in the competition, will follow before a difficult clash against Japan four days later. -Advertisement- It is a group that many are calling the toughest in this year’s competition, but it has been an encouraging build-up to this year’s tournament in Qatar for the Spanish national side. La Roja finished top of qualifying Group B, four points ahead of their closest challengers Sweden, and played some solid football throughout. But some feel they are missing a certain something. A spark going forward. A player that can score a goal out of nothing, or produce a moment of brilliance to clinch a game. His name is Ansu Fati. After being forced to watch from the sidelines after multiple injuries, including a torn medial meniscus of his left knee, the Guinea-Bissau born teenager has been forced to watch from the sidelines. It was, for the most part, a frustrating journey. He struggled to sleep at one stage because of the pain in his knee but looking back, Fati can see how much of a character-building process it has been. “You gradually get better and stronger every day,” he tells SPORTbible after becoming the face of Nike Underwear’s collection and their ‘Move to Zero’ plans. “With total effort and hard work, you can fix everything in the end. I’ve learned so much about myself during the recovery process. POLL But some feel they are missing a certain something. A spark going forward. A player that can score a goal out of nothing, or produce a moment of brilliance to clinch a game. His name is Ansu Fati. After being forced to watch from the sidelines after multiple injuries, including a torn medial meniscus of his left knee, the Guinea-Bissau born teenager has been forced to watch from the sidelines. It was, for the most part, a frustrating journey. He struggled to sleep at one stage because of the pain in his knee but looking back, Fati can see how much of a character-building process it has been. “You gradually get better and stronger every day,” he tells SPORTbible after becoming the face of Nike Underwear’s collection and their ‘Move to Zero’ plans. “With total effort and hard work, you can fix everything in the end. I’ve learned so much about myself during the recovery process. It has been a challenging year for Ansu Fati. In November 2020, he suffered a serious knock against Real Betis and later on, picked up two hamstring injuries. But in some difficult times, he has found great comfort in his faith and those closest to him. “During my injuries, I have prayed a lot,” he recently told BarçaTV+. “I would ask for good health for my family, and the last thing I ask for is for myself. My family and I are Muslims. We believe. I think that with hard work and with the help of God, anything is possible.” Time and time again, Fati has credited his family for their unwavering support. From his early days playing football on the streets of Bissau, the capital of Guinea-Bissau – one of the poorest countries on earth – to moving to Europe in search of a better life; they have always been there, by his side.