The Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has urged students not to allow the ongoing industrial action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to sway them into anti-social tendencies that would destroy their bright destinies. He advised them to rather pursue worthwhile goals capable of enhancing their learning and sound character in and out of school for a better future. Ewhrudjakpo gave the advice while granting audience separately to the National Union of Bayelsa State Students (NUBSS) Worldwide, and students of Sagbama Local Government origin studying at the Federal University, Otuoke, in Government House, Yenagoa. -Advertisement- In a statement on Wednesday issued by his media aide, Mr Doubara Atasi, the deputy governor described studentship as a veritable foundation for sustainable development of any people and their society. He reminded the students that the greatest social assets of any individual are good character and integrity, stressing that “bad character is like a flat tyre which cannot take anyone far in life.” Ewhrudjakpo urged the students to take their academics seriously and strive to become better than their parents and guardians, adding that students would be doing themselves and society a whole lot of good if they shun social vices including cultism, rape and drug abuse. Responding to NUBSS’ request for sponsorship to enable them to campaign against cultism in secondary schools, he asked them to tackle the menace from its roots by preaching the message of repentance to their undergraduate colleagues, who are into cult activities. Ewhrudjakpo said, “Your goal or proposal to go to secondary schools to campaign against cultism is quite laudable and noble. But I disagree with you on your target. POLL “You must first of all, remove the log in your eyes before you take away the spec in another person’s eye. Who are the people who go to initiate our children and your younger ones in secondary schools? Are they not from tertiary institutions? “It is those of you who are cultists in the tertiary institutions that go about initiating the secondary school students into cultism. So, I want you to first of all talk to and convert the undergraduates before coming down to students at the lower levels.” He also told them that cultism would not bring any good to them, saying the government wants them to become better citizens and not allow anybody to deceive them. “We are all affected by the ongoing ASUU strike. But don’t allow it to derail you into criminal or antisocial activities. Remain focused on the right things. Your hands must be on things that would add value to your lives”, Ewhrudjakpo added.