LAGOS  – Leaders of the Arewa Commu­nity in Lagos State have declared support for the commercial mo­torcycle ban in some areas in the state, urging their members to comply with the law. The group position was made known in a communiqué signed by Alhaji Musa Saleh, Secretary-General, after their extraordinary general meeting on Sunday. The group said the restric­tion of commercial motorcycle (okada) operators in some local government areas of state is not a new law but had been in exis­tence for over ten years. -Advertisement- “We resolved today unani­mously that all our members must comply with the provi­sions of the laws of Lagos State. We are law-abiding and we will always continue to intimate all our members to continue to be law-abiding and operate only within the ambits of the law. “We support all measures taken by the Lagos State Gov­ernment in its efforts towards protecting life and property of all Lagosians. “We condemn in totality the activities of all criminal ele­ments who are mostly foreign­ers from Niger Republic, Chad, Cameroon and other neigh­bouring countries who have infiltrated the ranks of those genuine riders and thereby per­petrating all forms of crime in Lagos state and are constituting serious threats to the lives and property of Lagosians. “We are calling on the secu­rity agencies to identify and ar­rest all those criminal elements masquerading as Okada riders. We are also charging the Ni­geria Immigration Service to step up its actions along the bor­der line in checking the influx of those foreign elements coming into the country without genu­ine intention,” the group stated. POLL We are calling on all well-meaning Arewa Commu­nity members to comply with our common resolve and avoid the Local Governments of Apa­pa, Surulere, Lagos Island, La­gos Mainland, Etiosa and Ikeja. “WewillworkwiththeLagos State Government and the Asso­ciation of Arewa Okada Riders towards the implementation of extant rules and documen­tation of all riders in all Local Governments of Lagos State,” the group stated.