Joy Anigbogu; Samuel Ogidan The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) has described the emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubkar as the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as an affront on the people of Southern Nigeria by the party. SMBLF recalls that following the release of the guidelines for the 2023 general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), elders and leaders of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt, under the aegis of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum, made unequivocal proclamations on the need for the presidency to be devolved to Southern Nigeria in 2023, in respect of the time-honored practice of the rotation and zoning of high political offices between the North and the South by political parties as a way of strengthening national unity, peace and harmony. -Advertisement- SMBLF further recalls that several engagements were held with various stakeholders across the length and breadth of the country on the subject to foster understanding, mutual respect and oneness, stressing that the 17 Southern governors also in a declaration after their meeting in Asaba, Delta State, in May 2021, backed the rotation of the presidency to the South in 2023. SMBLF in a statement signed by Senator Bassey Ewa-Henshaw, PANDEF/South-South; Amb. Okey Emuchay, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide/ South-East; Comrade Jare Ajayi, Afenifere/South-West, Dr. Isuwa Dogo, Middle Belt Forum (MBF), and Hon. Ken Robinson, acting Coordinator, SMBLF, noted that it appears the unity and peace of Nigeria means little or nothing to a segment of the nation’s political elite. “This was evidenced in the PDP special convention, which was held on Saturday, 28th May 2022, where certain candidates from the North were pressured, coerced, and even intimidated to step down for former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who eventually emerged as the flagbearer of PDP, in utter derision of the established principle of zoning and rotation of power between the North and South. “Undoubtedly, the singular motive is to perpetuate the hegemony of the North given that President Muhammadu Buhari, a Muslim from the North and of Fulani origin will be completing his full tenure of eight years by this time next year. “SMBLF, therefore, totally rejects the candidacy of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and calls on our people of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt as well as all true lovers of peace and unity not to vote for him or any other Northerner in the 2023 presidential election, in the interest of posterity.” POLL The group urged all aspirants for the office of president from Southern Nigeria to shun the conceited attitude of individualism and self-confidence, and work collectively to achieve the shared objectives. It calls on all politicians of Southern extraction to refuse the position of a running mate to any Northern presidential candidate, which will equally be viewed as subjugating their people to political slavery. Atiku, Ayu, Lamido, Ihedioha Pay Thank You Visit To Tambuwal Meanwhile, the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, on Sunday received thank you visit from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders and stakeholders. Tambuwal had during the PDP presidential primary on Saturday stood down for Atiku Abubakar, a development, which eventually gave him victory. Atiku had during the presidential primary defeated the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike. Those who paid a thank you visit to Tambuwal, according to a short video seen, are Atiku and the national chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu. Ayu was accompanied by the former Jigawa State governor, Sule Lamido; former Minister of Police Affairs, Adamu Maina, and a former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha. A video of Atiku’s visit to Tambuwal’s residence, which was shared online, indicated that the former vice president was accompanied by Senator Dino Melaye. Similarly, another short video clip, which was also shared online, showed Ayu patting Tambuwal’s back and saying, “Thank you, thank you, thank you. You are the hero of the convention.”