LAGOS – Dr. Adebowale Edalere, the Chief Executive Officer of Green Revolution Konsult, an agribusiness company, has declared that the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, an,,, initiative of the Federal Government, is technically dead. Speaking in interview with Daily Independent, he said that the objective of the progamme is to create a linkage between anchor companies involved in the processing and smallholder farmers of the required key agricultural commodities. He added that the thrust of the initiative is provision farm input in kind and cash (for farm labour) to smallholder farmers to boost production of the commodities, stabilize input supply to agro-processors and address the country’s negative balance of payments on food. Edalere, however, argued that the initiative is technically dead because the people who are charged with the implementation of the programme are incompetent and unqualified and have completely deviated from the design of the programme. -Advertisement- According to him, it is supposed to be a tripartite relationship among the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the farmers, and aggregators. He said that the role of the aggregators is source for farmers, both prospective and existing, train them and make them understand the programme. Having done that, he sated that the aggregators summit names and other documentations of the farmers to central bank. We also source for the anchor companies that will buy their produce at the time of harvest. He stated that the aggregators design the economics of production for the different produce, explaining that the economics of production is the cost of each item that make up the production per hectare of farmland. Edalere argued that the economics of production is discussed at a gathering of all stakeholders – CBN, aggregators, the input suppliers, the anchor companies and the representatives of the farmers at a town hall. At the meeting, he said they look at proposals and agree on the final cost of each item and also agree on the company that will supply each item; the companies will tell the farmers the benefits and the expectations of the input they want to supply. But unfortunately, according to him, at the point of disbursement, agents of the Federal Government and CBN will bring a different company that did not attend the stakeholder meeting, adding that all the discussions and agreements reached at meeting are discarded. “They give the contracts to their people who have no idea about the programme and needs of the farmers. POLL “The costs which the new people bring are also higher than what were agreed at the meeting and this creates many problems. “For instance, they will give the job of a tractor operator in Ogun State to a person in Kano State. The person will now come to Ogun and look for a tractor operator in the state to do the job.” He added, “They have refused to change despite all the noise about corruption. The government has refused to revise the economy and things are getting worse as a huge majority of Nigerians slip into poverty.” Speaking on Agri-Business/Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme, an initiative to support the Federal Government’s efforts and policy measures for the promotion of agricultural businesses and small/medium enterprises (SMEs) as vehicles for sustainable economic development and employment generation, he said that the programme did not survive for more than two to three years, the initiative was killed because the executors keep on embezzling funds, people will pay for training and get trained but will not access the funds. He stated that officials would say that those who had got the funds did not repay, therefore, new set of people will get the fund. He called on the Federal Government to overhaul the programmes and put competent to execute them in order to reduce food insecurity in the nation.