Reno Omokri, rights activist and a media aide of former President Goodluck Jonathan has reacted to the purchase of the N100 million All Progressives Congress (APC) Nomination and Expression of Interest forms for his former principal by some groups. Daily Independent had reported earlier that Jonathan picked up the presidential nomination and expression of interest form of the ruling APC. The news has since stirred a barrage of reactions on and off social media as lovers of the former president and concerned Nigerians expressed their individual views on Jonathan’s new political movement. -Advertisement- Omokri who spoke on Monday via his official Twitter handle said that Jonathan won’t join the 2023 presidential race secretly, adding that he refused to talk about the development earlier because he wanted Jonathan’s enemies to dance deliriously at the thought that his former principal had been demystified. He wrote, “Jonathan has nothing to do with the reported purchase of some forms. He has an official spokesman and his own staff. He is a man of honour and will not do anything surreptitiously. The media and the public should be guided. “I could have denied this hours ago, but I deliberately declined in order to watch his enemies and mine dance deliriously at the thought that they’d demystified @GEJonathan. There is no Nigerian alive that has the national and international credibility that HE GEJ has.” Jonathan had rejected the forms bought for him to contest the 2023 presidential election by nomadic Fulani pastoralists and Almajiri communities. Jonathan’s Media Adviser, Mr Ikechukwu Eze, in a statement on Monday, said it was an insult for the community to buy the forms for him without his consent. POLL “It has come to our notice that a group has purportedly purchased Presidential Expression of Interest and Nomination forms of the APC in the name of former President Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. “We wish to categorically state that Dr Jonathan was not aware of this bid and did not authorise it. “We want to state that if the former president wanted to contest an election, he would make his intentions clear to the public and will not enter through the back door,” Eze said