A group under the aegis of Concerned Afemai have expressed fear that Mr Adams Oshiomhole, a former governor of Edo State, maybe ambushed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should he win the Edo North Senatorial District seat or the Presidency in 2023. The group made this known in a statement by its coordinator , Mr Steven Asemah and spokesman, Mr Ojo Evbouan and made available to newsmen in Benin on Saturday. The group noted that the former Edo State Governor, haven collected forms for two elective positions in the same political party may not be eligible or suitable to vie for any election in the party. -Advertisement- The group which stressed that it had already registered this through a protest to the national headquarters of the All Progressives Congress (APC),cited several controversial legal landmines that Oshiomhole may face. They noted that to save the party the embarrassment it would face, implored that his (Oshiomhole’s) nominations for both the Presidency and Senate be stepped down. “The validity of individuals picking dual nomination forms within the same nomination process of a political party is a controversial political habit that is exposed to legal challenge anytime. “Consequently, Oshiomole’s dual aspiration (for presidency & senate) within APC 2022 nomination process, is a disregard for internal democracy, APC constitution, INEC Guidelines, Electoral Act 30,35,115d, 115k &.1999 Constitution.” The statement titled: ‘THE CONTROVERSIES OF OSHIOMOLE’S CREDIBILITY TO CONTEST APC PRIMARIES’ further states: POLL “We wish to draw the attention of our party to the serial controversies vis-a-vis legal burden hanging on Adams Aliu Oshiomole, especially relating to his non-credibility to participate in the ongoing APC Nomination Exercise for the 2023 general election.” The group also disclosed the issues surrounding Oshiomole’s membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC. “The authenticity of Oshiomole membership status after his suspension remains an unsettled fundamental issue. “Although on June 20th, 2020 the suspension letter was purported lifted by 17 Ward Executives but if the case was withdrawn from court, that does not validate the membership status of Oshiomole. If the suspension was lifted, did it duely comply with Section 21C(I & v) of the APC Constitution. “In view of the precarious opposition status of APC in Edo state, where the ruling PDP under a draconic Governor Godwin Obaseki may lay ambush on the electoral prospects of APC if Adams Oshiomole is considered for nomination. “We therefore advise the APC appeal screening committee to curtail avoidable technical losses of APC in Edo-North (which remains the only APC stronghold in Edo state). “The Appeal Committee should review and stepdown Adams Aliu Oshiomole from the ongoing 2022 APC nomination process” the group concluded.”