The detained People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Rivers State, Hon Farah Dagogo will remain in the police custody until May 23 following the adjournment of his case by the Chief Magistrate due to the lawmaker’s absence to appear in court. Femi Adegbite, counsel to Dagogo had applied for a motion on bail at the Magistrate Court but was opposed by the prosecution counsel. The lawmaker is facing a two-count charge of conspiracy and cultism in the case brought against him by the state Commissioner of Police, CP Friday Eboka. -Advertisement- On Monday when the matter was called by Chief Magistrate Amadi Nna, he was informed by the lawyer of the Rivers State Government, Chidi Eke that fresh information has been filed against the federal lawmaker at the State High court. Speaking to journalists after the court proceeding, the state prosecuting counsel, Chidi Eke said,” We are just coming out of the court in the vase of the commissioner of police against Hon Farah Dagogo. “He was supposed to appear before the court again today probably for the court to deliver a ruling on the applications the lawyers to the defendant made the last time. “But unfortunately he (Dagogo) was not produced. He was remanded in police custody the last time. “We are yet to know the exact reason why he was not produced before the court today, and the matter has been adjourned to the 23rd day of May 2022 for mention before this court. POLL “But like I had already informed the court that information had been filed before the high court. The information means a formal charge before the high court. Meaning that if we process all of those, we are no longer coming to this court,” he stated. In the meantime, Ibrahim Lawal, media aide to the detained lawmaker has accused the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, of plotting to nail his principal with falsehood. In a statement he released in Port Harcourt, Lawal alleged that the charges against Dagogo, which he described as trumped-up, were well calculated and masterminded by the governor and his co-conspirators, to put him away and scuttle his governorship ambition. “Governor Nyesom Wike, during a Thanksgiving Service in Church on Sunday confirmed our concerns and fears that the trump-up charges levelled against Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo by the governor is a well-calculated attempt, masterminded by the Governor and his co-conspirators to put Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo is away, and out of circulation and scuttle his governorship aspiration. “At the Thanksgiving Service, the governor admitted in public, what was being rumoured in private, that he wields lots of influence in the judiciary and as such would frustrate and prevent any bail application for Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo. “We want to believe that the Judiciary remains the very hope for a fair adjudication and the coming days will tell us more. “He equally justified his illegal declaration of Hon. Dagogo is a cultist and a criminal’ in conformity with his attempt to tarnish the image of the Federal Lawmaker. “Contrary to the misinformation the Governor peddled in the House of God, Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo is not a criminal, he has never been charged as one, nor has he been convicted of such an offence. His record remains unblemished. “The story of the Niger Delta agitation and struggle is in the public domain and Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo had stated his role publicly, the sacrifices and the overtures he rejected,” the statement read.