AKINWUNMI K ING After much waiting and apprehensions, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is holding a special convention to elect a candidate that will fly the party’s flag in the February 18, 2023 presidential election. With the screening of all the aspirants completed, over 20 of them are participating in the contest, and with the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the amended Electoral Act Bill that would have permitted statutory delegates to vote, there is heightened tension among some of the aspirants and their supporters. According to section 12.1 of the APC constitution, members of the national convention shall include members of the board of trustees, national chairman and all members of the national executive committee, serving and past presidents, vice presidents, serving and past governors and deputy governors who are members of the party, serving and former members of the National Assembly, members of the state working committees, all local government chairmen along with three elected delegates from each of the 774 local government areas, totaling 7,800 delegates. -Advertisement- Having refused to give his assent to the amendment, the number of delegates has been reduced from 7,800 to about 2,340. The 2,340 delegates consist of three from each of the 774 local government areas in the country and six area councils in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The Consensus Anxiety As at the time of filing this report, the ruling party was yet to announce the mode it would adopt for presidential primary but some inside sources are claiming that the party may end up using consensus to pick its flag bearer for the February 18 election. The party, at its national convention in March, produced the new national leadership of the party through the consensus arrangement after President Buhari appealed to the governors and other stakeholders that it is the best way to avoid rancour at the convention. Following the successful outcome of the convention, some stakeholders in the party, loyal to the President, popularly referred to as ‘the cabals’, are already pushing for the same consensus method to be adopted during the presidential primary. POLL If the APC chooses to adopt this mode, the consensus method will require President Buhari anointing one of the aspirants, while the others simply step down for him as it was done during the March 26 national convention of the party, which produced Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the party’s national chairman. However, based on the Electoral Act, any aspirant who agrees to step down must do so in writing, as anything short of this will make the consensus option impossible. On consensus candidate the amended Electoral Act bill in Section 84(9)(a) provides that, “A political party that adopts a consensus candidate shall secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the position, indicating their voluntary withdrawal from the race and their endorsement of the consensus candidate.” It goes further in paragraph (b) that, “Where a political party is unable to secure the written consent of all cleared aspirants for the purpose of a consensus candidate, it shall revert to the choice of direct or indirect primaries for the nomination of candidates for the aforesaid elective positions.” The Bill states in paragraph (c) that, “A special convention or nomination congress shall be held to ratify the choice of consensus candidates at designated centres at the National, State, Senatorial, Federal and State Constituencies, as the case may be.” With the above proviso, even if President Buhari decides to anoint a particular aspirant, every other aspirant jostling for the position must give their consent in a written form. If this is not achieved, then all the aspirants may have to slug it out in a direct or an indirect primary as it may deem fit. There are claims that the president has an anointed candidate, which those close to him have refused to mention, but a source confirmed that the former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is not the president’s anointed candidate. However, if the party insists on consensus and if other aspirants go in the direction, Tinubu would definitely agree to the arrangement. Some political associates of the former Lagos State governor have vowed that he (Tinubu) will not step down for any aspirant. They said with the efforts Tinubu has put into the race so far, the only way he can accept any consensus arrangement is if he is chosen as the sole candidate. The National Secretary of the South-West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA ’23), Otunba Bosun Oladele said many members of the APC believe that any consensus arrangement without Tinubu as candidate will not unify the party. While also calling for a level playing field for all the presidential aspirants, Oladele said nobody can persuade Tinubu to step down based on the efforts he has expended in the project so far. “The best way to go about the presidential contest among the aspirants is to allow a level playing ground. That is the only thing that will ensure that whoever is winning is winning fairly and whoever loses, did so fairly. “Once there is fairness and equity, nobody will begrudge the eventual winner and feel cheated; rather they will join hands with him to secure victory for the party. “If we are talking about consensus, the opinion out there is that any consensus arrangement that is not about Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu being the candidate will not unify the party. “That is the opinion out there in the APC and I sincerely believe that too. I am not Asiwaju’s spokesman but I have campaigned for him and my group, SWAGA’23, has been in the forefront of the call for him to contest. “We are glad he has yielded to the call. We have also done a lot of consultation and networking for him. “You all can see the energy the man brought into the game, the way he has moved round the country day and night, covering two to three states in a day. With what he has done so far, I believe Asiwaju will not be persuaded to step down for anybody,” he said. South-East Solidarity In the meantime, presidential aspirants of Igbo extraction rose from a meeting last Sunday with a resolution to support anyone among them that clinches the party’s ticket. The aspirants, including former Imo Governor Senator Rochas Okorocha; former Senate President Ken Nnamani, former Minister of Education (State) Emeka Nwajiuba; former Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu and Mrs. Uju Ken-Ohanenye, met behind closed door at the Maitama home of Okorocha. Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi was said to have joined the meeting virtually after he had to cut short his visit to Abuja to get relevant documents for his screening in Abakaliki. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting and read by Nnamani, the aspirants agreed to align with the decision of the party, which they said will do the right thing and heed the clamour for power shift to the Southeast. It read: “That the President of the federal republic of Nigeria and the All Progressive Congress and Its National Working Committee as well the teaming members of the party are commended by the entire people of the southeast on their avowed commitment to the unity of Nigeria and the inclusion of all parts of Nigeria In the governance architecture of the country. “That we commend all Nigerians who are committed to the Nigerian project by the whole hearted support of the aspiration of the south east to produce the next Nigerian president in 2023. “That in furtherance of these commitments all aspirants here commit to align with any of the Southeast aspirants that is accepted by and chosen by other Nigerians to fly the APC flag.” Who Will Emerge Buhari’s Favourite? Special Adviser to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina in a recent interview on Channels TV, disclosed that his principal has a favourite candidate to succeed him in 2023, but will not mention the person. According to Adesina, “In a previous interview when the president was asked whether he had a favorite candidate, he answered yes; but he will not mention him because mischief may happen to that person. “That shows you that the president himself is interested in the process and he has a preferred candidate; but whether he will impose his candidate is what you cannot determine at the moment.” Also, the Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, last Sunday, stated that irrespective of competence of the APC presidential aspirants and the strength of their manifestos, the anointed candidate of the president will most likely fly the party’s flag in the 2023 presidential election. Zulum, who made this disclosure in Maiduguri, while receiving the campaign team of Rotimi Ameachi, which was led by the aspirant’s campaign Director General, Ali Ndume, and members of the campaign team in a meeting with delegates and members of the APC in Borno State, disclosed that Borno delegates have no preferred aspirant at the moment but the delegates will vote for a credible candidate based on the preference of the president and their convictions. “Borno State delegates will vote based on their conscience. But again, our leader, General Muhammadu Buhari, is very important in this political equation. We are still waiting for him to tell us what to do and we will follow. His advice is very important so we have to wait for his advice. “Nigerians should pray for a good candidate to emerge irrespective of tribe, region or ethnic background but a candidate that will ensure the APC forms the central government come 2023,” Zulum said. Some aspirants’ names have been flying around as the likely preferred choice of the president. But some APC chieftains and political analysts have said that even if President Buhari decides to support a particular aspirant, such a person will have to get the nod of other aspirants. A member of the House of Representatives from Lagos State in a chat with Sunday Independent, explained that the President has every right to support a particular aspirant but he can’t impose his choice on the other aspirants. “The law is clear on this. What the amended Electoral Act says is that even if we must elect our candidate by a consensus, other aspirants must be in agreement and they must sign to a written agreement, anything short of that means that the consensus can’t stand. “So, President Buhari in this instance won’t have his way this time around the way he did in the case of the party’s national chairman. Even if he announces Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as his preferred choice and any other candidate opposes it, then they will all have to go and slug it out at the primaries to determine who emerges eventually,” said the lawmaker who chose to be anonymous. Who Wins APC’s Presidential Ticket? Whatever mode of primaries the ruling party chooses to adopt, the interest of Nigerians by later tonight or early tomorrow, will be about who eventually clinches the party’s ticket. Below are some of the aspirants who stand the chances of clinching the ticket. Bola Tinubu The former Lagos State governor is believed to parade intimidating political credentials, because his network cuts across several political tendencies, and he is adjudged to be the frontrunner in the race for the presidential ticket. Many are of the view that the APC national leader remains the aspirant to beat in terms of reach, as most analysts also agree he is in pole position to clinch the presidential ticket in an open, free and fair contest, barring any unforeseen development before or during the primary election. Among issues that have been raised against him is his age and health. There is also the suggestion that certain vested interests are not keen on him winning the party’s ticket. He has also lost some of his old associates who for their own reasons have chosen to move on to new friends. Kayode Fayemi The Ekiti State Governor, who also doubles as Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi is another contender for the coveted ticket. Aside from Ekiti, the political strength of Fayemi in the Southwest is limited. However, pundits are of the view that his fellow aspirants should not underrate him because he has been central to happenings in the party in the last two years. As NGF chairman, two-term governor and former minister, Fayemi has built up an impressive network of political contacts across the country. However, it remains to be seen whether leading the governors’ body actually translates into tangible capital that can pay off in the primaries. He positions himself as an intellectual. Yemi Osinbajo The incumbent Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo started his political career under the tutelage of Tinubu, serving as Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice for eight years. His emergence as President Buhari’s running mate in 2015 was down to the fact that powerful voices rose up within the party to oppose an idea of Muslim-Muslim ticket. He was believed to have been subsequently nominated by Tinubu as running mate to Buhari. As number two, he had served as Acting President when his principal was in London on medical leave. Being in government, he has ample opportunities to make contacts and improve on networks built up over time. In his role, he was a front man for some of the administration’s key welfare and development initiatives. Although, he was later stripped of most of his powers, as these programmes would be transferred to what eventually became the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs at the start of the second term in 2019. He is also a senior pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) – one of Nigeria’s largest Pentecostal congregations – which recently launched an initiative to make its members more politically active, a move interpreted by many as the church’s effort at drawing up for their own. He has embarked on nationwide consultations to sell his aspiration to delegates and critical stakeholders and is believed to have the backing of some governors and professionals under the platform of The Progressive Project (TPP). Though, he is believed to lack the political structure for the actualisation of his aspiration. The lukewarm and non-committal attitude of his principal to who succeeds him may also throw a spanner in the wheel of his presidential ambition. Analysts say the VP’s best hope of emerging flagbearer lies in winning Buhari’s endorsement. Ahmad Lawan He is among the longest serving members of the National Assembly. He moved from being in the House of Representatives to the Senate, where he is the current president. Whereas, he is perceived as the aspirant of a section of the northern political establishment, he has made spirited efforts to shed light on his ambition. Many also rationalise his bid on his relationship with the executive arm of government. There are also suspicions that he may not be a serious challenge given that he also picked up the Senate nomination form while supposedly launching a presidential bid. Lawan is believed to have the backing of some members of the National Assembly. With no visible campaign structure outside his state, the Senate President is regarded as somewhat of a paperweight. According to feelers, his best hope of becoming flagbearer revolves round the hope that Buhari would endorse him. The current Electoral Act is also seen as a huge impediment to his ambition. One of Lawan’s supposed strengths is the expectation that he will reap bountifully from the votes of fellow National Assembly members who were statutory delegates to the convention. But, with the refusal of President Buhari to give his assent to the Electoral Act 2022 Amendment Bill, the dream of achieving this is dead. With sentiments in the South decidedly against another Northerner taking over from Buhari who would have spent eight years in office by next year, a Lawan candidacy would go down like a lead balloon. Rotimi Amaechi The former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi is a presidential aspirant to watch. He is leaving no stone unturned to succeed Buhari. But pundits say he will have to do much more to win the ticket. Amaechi prides himself as the most experienced in the race. This is because he has been a Speaker and governor in Rivers State, he was also chairman of Forum of Speakers for eight years, chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum for eight years, twice Director-General of the Buhari Campaign Organisation and minister for almost eight years. He tells anybody who cares to listen that he’s the most qualified and equipped aspirant to lead a post-Buhari era. Aside from his much vaunted experience, he’s a political warrior who never shirks a fight. Amaechi has tried to parlay close ties to the president as an advantage in the race. He even was turbaned Dan Ammanar in Buhari’s hometown of Daura. So, even if the delegates’ counts doesn’t make him the frontrunner, he would be hoping that a presidential anointing tilts the race in his favour. It’s hard to see how an Amaechi candidacy helps the APC to retain power. Ibikunle Amosun The former governor of Ogun State is one of the three presidential aspirants from the state. He is also believed to be one of the closest Southwest politicians to Buhari, the Senator for Ogun Central is not a pushover. And because of his closeness to the president, many are seeing him as possible anointed of Buhari. Today, the much awaited outcome will be known and it will, definitely, be one of the most crucial decision of the ruling party in the last few years.