Deputy Absent At Primary IBADAN – Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has defeated the former Deputy Governor of the state, Barrister Azeem Gbolarumi in a peaceful conducted primary held at the Lekan Salami Stadium Adamasingba Ibadan. Makinde polled total votes of 1,040 from all the geo-political zones of the state, while Barrister Azeem Gbolarumi who contested against the current governor got two votes. -Advertisement- In his address shortly before the commencement of the exercise Barrister Gbolarumi expressed his disappointment over the conduct of the primary. He said, “I was surprised that I could be called to come and address my delegates after they have all been chased out, this is not fair, who do you now want me to address, we are not helping matters with the way things are going in this party.” “Governor Makinde should do the needful by addressing all the issues affecting our party, it is very clear that there are some aggrieved members in our party, we must all be sincere with ourselves, for instance, if there is no one to contest with the governor our gathering here will not be an interesting one,” Gbolarumi said. Further breakdown of the votes cast by the delegates present for the primary showed that Governor Makinde won in Oyo Central Senatorial district with 351 votes, while Gbolarumi had only one vote and a total number of two void votes. Makinde won in Oyo North with a total number of 398 votes with two void votes, while the governor defeated Gbolarumi with 291 votes at Oyo South to one vote. POLL Abudulahi Maibasira who represented the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) National Electorial Committee (NEC) Senator Ben. Obi at the end of the peaceful process declared Governor Makinde the winner of the primary. Maibasira said, “Governor Makinde having won with 1040 votes out of accredited 1,248 delegates, the total void votes is 6, while Barrister Gbolarumi polled 2 votes, Governor Seyi Makinde is hereby declared winner of this governorship primary election. “Governor Makinde is hereby declared the flag-bearer of our dear party ahead of 2023 general elections,” Maibasira said. In his address shortly after the voting, Governor Makinde commended the party leaders, delegates and members for the peaceful conduct of the primary. He however promised not to let the party down. He said, “All the delegates have done well, few weeks back I announced that I would run for the second term, I was overwhelmed by the positive feedback I received from the people, especially from all our delegates and winning here today, my emergence as the flag-bearer of our party, what more can I say, than to thank you all, I will say it again thank you for believing in me and the party. “Thank you all for trusting in me,.trust is like a building, and for a building to stand, it must have a solid foundation and this is the truth, I will keep all the promises I made to you.” “2023 is our time to save Nigerians, when they come to you tell them to compare the eight years of APC administration with just three years of PDP in this state, so PDP is coming at the Federal level,” Makinde said.