When an individual decides to turn from their sinful ways and accept Jesus into their life, it is the most important decision ever, because they have just committed to a life of newness and pureness (2 Corinthians 5:17), such that guarantees peace of mind and subsequently fellowship with God in heaven for eternity. It is however a decision that comes with enormous challenges. A long narrow road paved with bumps, twists, and turns. These is so because satan, the chief host of hell is unwilling to spend eternity alone, he tries to take as many people with him, Christians inclusive, for the eternal suffering in hell. As a result of this, it is common to see some Christians making a return to the sinful ways they had left behind because of the difficulties and barrage of temptations that trail the life of a Christian, especially in this modern era of civilization where sinful acts and practices have ascribed a status of normalcy. In the pursuit of happiness and affluence, some Christians have consciously or unconsciously gotten tangled in fraudulent and sharp practices. Tribulations like sickness, failure, depression etc. have prompted some to seek alternative help that comes with steep consequences rather than trust God whose love is unconditional. 2 Corinthians 6:14 delivered a warning for believers, the craving for acceptance of sinful company has led some Christians to be unsuspectingly lured back to their vomit. The advent of social media has seen Christians, especially the younger class mired in the sin of moral decadence, that emanates from unholy fashion trends and indulgences, because of fear of ostracism from peers and colleagues. -Advertisement- Beloved, if you have missed your way in the course of your Christian journey or nursing the idea to make a U-turn, be reminded that it would have fatal implications, do yourself a big favour, make a quick return by saying a prayer of forgiveness and rededicate your life to God. Accepting Jesus as your savior is the first step. There must be a conscious attempt to fellowship and learn the word of God. A lack of these will render a Christian easy prey to be deceived back to the world. The grim reality is that your Christian sojourn will be laced with trials, however, you must never give up (Romans 12:12). With Jesus you are sure to prevail (John 16:33). He said he’ll send you a comforter, when the storms of life billows at you (John 14:16). Pray ceaselessly for the power of the holy spirit for it is the most powerful antidote to sin and satan (Galatians 5:16). May the peace of God be with you, amen.