LAGOS  – The Chairman of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers(NIESV),Lagos State Branch,Mrs.Olabisi Demola-Alade has stressed the need for practicing estate surveyors and valuers both in the private and public sectors and even in the academia to aspire to become associate members of the institution. She stated this at a Media parley to mark the institution’s 2021-2022 Estate Surveyors and Valuers week which commenced on Monday, May 16 and ended on Sunday May 22 with s Thanksgiving Service at the Chapel of Light, Alausa Ikeja. According to her, since the current EXCO came on board in May 2021, she has continued to pursue with vigour, the realisation of her 10-point agenda with a view to bringing to the front burner, the critical role the estate surveyors and valuers play in the built environment. -Advertisement- She noted, that her advocacy drive had taken her to some private organisations including some tertiary institutions like the Yaba College of Technology(Yabatech) to sensitise estate surveyors and valuers of the advantage inherent in becoming associate members. The NIESV chairman, who scored herself high on the 10-point agenda she set for herself and members of the EXCO, noted with delight, that as she clocks one year in office this month, more associate members especially in ‘The very Branch’ as the Lagos branch is called, have been enrolled. According to her, the 2021/2022 Estate Surveyors and Valuers week iwas an avenue for members to ‘unwind’ and further ‘network’ with a view to expanding their scope of work and knowledge of the profession. Prior to the press briefing, the President of the institution, Esv.Emmanuel Okas Wike, the chairman, Meckson Innocent Okoro,Julius Fadairo teed off at the Golf Course to formally kick start the week-long event. On Monday, May 16,the ‘very branch’organised a luncheon for past chairmen of the institution at the Zens Garden. POLL At the luncheon some of the past chairmen who graced the occasion included amongst others,Esv.Ajayi Patunola,Esv. Samuel Ukpong and one of the founding fathers of the institution,Esv.Shote. Honourable Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, the Commissioner for Housing, was ably represented by Esv(Mrs) Ajayi Patunola,a Director in the Ministry. On Tuesday May 27,the institution organised a Summit 4.0 and the following day, members of the EXCO were at the Tabs College of Technology to share ideas with the students who are studying the discipline. On Thursday, members engaged themselves in Lawn Tennis game and on Friday, May 20,the EXCO visited Modupe Cole Memorial Home where they engaged the pupils in a tete a tete. They also Made some donation to the home. Thereafter, members who are Muslims went to the Mosque to observe the Jumat Service. The week long came to a climax on Sunday May 22 with a Thanksgiving Service at the Chapel of Light,Alausa,Ikeja.