The Governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress(ADC) for the June 18, 2022 Goverhorship poll in Ekiti State, Dr Wole Oluyede, has decried the alleged intimidation of his supporters by agents of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The  Australian based Medical Practitioner expressed this concern during a rally in Ado Ekiti graced by his supporters across the 16 Local Government areas. Addressing the crowd, Oluyede, said the ADC was resolute to dismantle the alleged castle of poverty, unemployment, exclusion and insecurity brought by other parties to Ekiti. -Advertisement- Oluyede said: “They said they are bringing thuggery, but God has arrested them for us. They even threatened that we shouldn’t organise this rally, but they failed. Nobody’s blood will be shed in this election by the grace of God. “Don’t fall for their money, God won’t allow you to eat the food of your enemies. This time, God has reclaimed Ekiti for  us. We are not in any way rattled by their threats, because you are behind me. “Let us go home and campaign house- to -house. Tell the people that the party that will bring joy, peace and love has come. The time for economic prosperity and abundance is coming. Let us be serious with our campaigns because winning Ekiti from these people is possible”. Oluyede added; “With the large turnout of our loyalists today, we are making a statement that Ekiti is fixable. The people have laboured and toiled under the present democracy with only poverty, a dearth of social amenities and the attendant impoverishment to show for it. “The ADC, has come as the ready liberator to move our people away from their present Egypt to the Promised Land and restore needed hope for better days to come. POLL “My deputy, Dr Hidiat Popoola and I shall breast the tape to victory, come June 18, 2022 and Ekiti shall know peace again through quality representation and resourceful governance, which are kernels of human self-worth and dignity.” The ADC  candidate maintained that the party’s manifesto was ingeniously crafted in such a way that would disentangle the populace from the poverty caused by unemployment, economic deprivation, lack of infrastructure and bad governance. He appealed to the voters to resist the attempt by desperate politicians to buy their conscience through vote-buying, saying this tactic would fail them in the coming election.