LAGOS  – The Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU), Professor Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, has affirmed that the renovated LASU Museum in Agege will continue to form part of the institution’s research mission. Speaking during the celebration of the 2022 International Museum Day organised by the Museum located in Agege, the VC explained that the centre was established to collect cultural artifacts’ for preservation, conservation, exhibition, display, research and documentation. “In the year 2008 during the administration of Professor Lateef Hussain, under whom I served as the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, (Academic) two professional staff were employed to enhance the operations of the Museum. -Advertisement- Emphasising the importance of Museums, Prof. Olatunji-Bello added that the American Alliance of Museums, in the United States of America, said about “80% of the Museums provide educational programmes for children, and the country spends more than $2 billion per year on educational activities. She added, “The LASU Museum is one of the research missions of the University and was established to collect cultural Artifacts for preservation, conservation, exhibition, display, research and documentation. Speaking on the theme of this year’s celebration, “The Future of Museums: Imagination, Innovation and Recovery of Lagos Cultural Heritage”, the VC said the institution will not be discouraged but commenced the renovation and construction of new museum galleries, which will facilitate effective/efficient museum operations and revenue generation. She assured stakeholders that the museum would be positioned to “Showcase knowledge and address key social issues to help transform how we see the future, learn from the past and enrich our history while playing a key role in harmonizing the diverse communities (IBILE- Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos Island, Epe) in Lagos through celebrating our collective heritage.” Dr. Animashaun Maruf Suraqat, the Director of LASU-Museum said the celebration marked a rebirth of LASU museum into a functional one with galleries and life animals (mini-Zoo), saying the innovation is one of the strategic methods of making LASU the best University in West, Africa. POLL “LASU museum is the first University Museum to reproduce antiquities of 2000 years of Nigerian History namely Nok, Ife, Benin, and other cultures in Nigeria. “This is not limited to preservation of Lagos cultural materials alone. We are a Centre for African Heritage, a research-based museum outfit. At the museum, we now have adequate space for development, office accommodation for staff and functional facilities. Right now, we can say that LASU-Museum has moved from point 0 to 10 as our Vice-Chancellor has used her good office to improve the state of the museum from what it was before to what it is today. “It is a glorious achievement for the University and an advantage for our museum to be opened to the public. Museum day is an occasion to raise awareness on the importance of museums in the preservation of the universal heritage for global cultural integration and peace.” Delivering a paper titled: “The Future of Museums: Imagination, Innovation and Recovery of Lagos Cultural Heritage”, the guest lecturer, Hon. Justice Babatunde Adeniran Adejumo, the immediate past president of the National Industrial Court of Nigeria said the British colonial influence was responsible for the appearance of museums in Nigeria. “Even in Britain itself, the very first public museum was “The Ashmolean” opened in 1683 at the University of Oxford. However, it was not until 1753 that the world’s first legislation to back up the establishment of a museum was enacted.” He said that the emergence of museums in Nigeria could not be separated from the ancient culture of royal palaces and religious shrines, where artefacts and peculiar works of art were stored and preserved. “For instance, in ancient times, whenever there was a significant event in society, or Occurrence or issue surrounding a person, the Oba of Benin Kingdom would signal to his Guild of Bronze Casters, or instruct one of, or a group of his bronze artists to cast a bronze sculpture to commemorate, demonstrate or keep a record of it for the sake of posterity and cultural awareness of generations yet unborn.” According to him, the art pieces and artefacts were like diaries, like a cultural and historical journal, the symbolisms of the way of life, retention of cultural heritage and preservation of religious, political life and resourceful civilisation. So, stealing them or “taking them away was like yanking off pages of our history,” to use the very words of Prinze Edun Akenzua of the Benin royal dynasty. Nothing less than about 2,500 (official figures) artworks, religious artefacts, bronze and brass sculptures, Benin visual history, and mnemonics were eventually stolen by British troops and other agents of the British colonial government and illegally auctioned to museums around the world, especially in Europe and America. Justice Adejumo appreciated the Lagos State University management for ensuring that the symbols of local culture in the form of artefacts, antiquities, relics, art and so on are well taken care of and preserved. Referring to Dubai’s Museum of the Future, the lecturer advocated that the museums of the future must be designed to promote tourism and give visitors an experience of a lifetime such that they want to keep coming back and in fact, bring others from the country and from around the world along with them. To realise this, he charged museum managers to deploy applied imagination and practical innovation as essential ingredients that must interplay to adapt to an ever-changing world where digital transformation as well as a hunger for new ways of doing things have become the norm. “Digital innovation can make museums more accessible and engaging, helping the audience understand the complex and nuanced concept of the object of our history. Whether it is here in Lagos, or other museums in Benin city, Calabar, Kaduna, Kano, etc., the calling of the modern museum will continue to be to preserve, interpret and display objects of artistic, cultural or scientific significance for the study and education of the public,” he said.