P/HARCOURT– Port Harcourt residents have groaned over what they described as high cost of food items in Rivers state insisting that such is unprecedented in the history of the state and nay Nigeria in general. Speaking to our Correspondent during a vox – Pop in Port Harcourt the Rivers State capital weekend, they bemoaned the situation even as they emphasized that the trend if not checked could lead to hunger and insecurity in the state as the level of criminality will increase hence some people might likely resort to unwholesome practices to survive. A respondents in Elelenwo, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state who simply identified himself as Okenwo stated the cost of food items is taking toll on the residents .He said there is no amount of money that you will have without feeling the impact of the inflation. According to him,such is tilting to a dangerous dimension. -Advertisement- Okenwo,who spoke in correct English said,” image this trend,how did we get to this that no matter the amount of money you have, you can not perfectly say that the money can purchase anything.” “A noddle of N60 is now N120 to N150, a small bottle of Kerosene is now sold for N300 as against N100, fish of N400 before is now N800 to N1000 among others” Continuing, he said, my worry is that the Government, both at the State and federal levels are not doing anything”. Asked on what he fells the government should do? The visibly angry man insisted that “in other climes, government controls the prizes of goods and services but here anything goes” He reiterated that the prize increase is not only in food items but also in building materials, “imagine a bag of cement hovers between N4,400 to N4,500. A locally fabricated China Iron door which was formally bought at the cost of N20,000,is now about N45,000,16mm Rod which was bought between N2,800 is now more than N8,000 per length.” POLL Adding that “with such a situation how do you expect the common Masses to build houses and probably train their children? “A block of “ 5” which was sold for N120 is N190, “9” which was sold for N150 now goes for N280- N300. While “ “6’ block is now N200 to N220.” He continued,Five buckets of sand is now N75,000 as against N45,000.among others ‘ A middle aged woman,who said she is a trader and identified herself as Mama Ada and stays around Rumuokoro, also in Obio/Akpor, LGA said the cost of food items has drastically reduced her profit from the sell of Mama- Put. Speaking in Pidgin, She said I go buy Rice expensive, buy ingredients expensive even the Gas to cook,still come dey expensive. I used to buy 1kg of cooking gas for N300 now 1 kg is N680 Kero before na N100 small bottle, big Bottle na N200,now Small kero na N300 and big one na N600-N700. Asked what was responsible for that of kerosene,she said “ I hear sey because of the kpo fire kerosene wey government stop na him dey cause am”. She stated “me I no like kpo fire but e de help .Since government don stop am,let them try see how them go help us ooo because this kan life na die we dey so o” she insisted. Mr Jackson Emmanuel who spoke around Port Harcourt city council area of the state ,was dramatic in his response, “My brother, forget government. They thought the Masses will die finish, there is God in Heaven,we will survive all this. We never survived Covid-19 ?” ,he queried “In as much as our God is on the throne, we will surly survive the high cost of living” But with 2023 Election around the corner and what is on ground especially the reduced cash flow among the people visa viz the raising cost of consumer goods,the political class may cash in on it to win the confidence of the electorate by promising to reverse the trend and probably win their votes but the question that is still begging for answer is whether they will fulfill their electoral promises or not.