LAGOS – The Delta State Police Com­mand has said its war against hard drugs and other so­cial vices had gained more grounds with the arrest of suspected armed robbers and drug dealers over the week­end. The command added that it was gradually winning the war of arresting suspects and removing hard drugs from circulation as well as keeping cities and environs in the state safe from armed robbers. Bright Edafe, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Del­ta State Command, disclosed this in a statement on the ex­ploits of the command which was made available to Daily Independent. Edafe, a Deputy Super­intendent of Police (DSP), said that at about 5.40 p.m. on April 26, 2022, the command’s crack squad, while acting on a tip-off, raided a suspected criminal hideout at Azungwu Street, Umu-onicha quarters in Ogwashi-Ukwu, and ar­rested three suspects, namely, Izuagbe Theophilus, 20-year old boy; Okofu Henry, 22, and Confidence Ugochukwu, a 19- year old girl. Exhibit recovered from the trio suspected to be hard drug dealers, according to the police image maker, in­clude 147 wraps of dry weeds suspected to be loud, 47 wraps of substances suspected to be cocaine, seven wraps of Colo­rado, and 44 wraps of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. DSP Edafe said the suspects were in custody while investi­gation was ongoing. Edafe also said that a stop and search led to the arrest of some other suspected crim­inals who hid a cut- to- size double barrel gun in the en­gine compartment of the car they were driving adding that upon further investigations more guns were found hidden under the back car seats. “On April 26, 2022 at about 1800hrs, operatives attached to safer highway patrol, deployed along Benin-Sapele Road in Sapele, while conducting stop and search, intercepted a Toy­ota Camry car with Reg. No. APP 134 UP driven by one Osasere Megegbe, 45,, in com­pany of one Edosa Monday, male, 35, both of No. 12 Emah Community Road, Ekiadolor Benin City. “During the search, one cut-to-size double barrel gun was found concealed inside the engine compartment. POLL “The suspects were prompt­ly arrested, the gun and vehi­cle recovered to the station. Upon further investigation and interrogation, two addi­tional long single barrel guns shrouded under the back sit of the vehicle were also recov­ered.”