Magnus Onyibe As a development strategist, I like to indulge in scenario building. And against the current run of play in the highly fluid Nigerian political atmosphere awash with candidates in excess of 40 aiming at becoming president of Nigeria in 2023, the surprise scenario that l have imagined is: Atiku Abubakar or Bukola Saraki paring with an Igbo man as a vice-presidential candidate. Let us say someone like Anyim Pius Anyim, ex senate president and secretary to the government of the federation or Peter Obi, ex-governor of Anambra state and even Nyesom Wike as well as Udom Emmanuel of Rivers and Akwa Ibom States respectively. -Advertisement- That is with respect to the PDP stable. From the APC flank, Godwin Emefiele, (current Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN governor) or Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transport can turn out to be the running mate to a presidential candidate from the north who would be a dark horse. Gauging the mood of the APC leadership,particularly the body language of its Chairman, Abdulahi Adamu and National Assembly members, senator Ahmad Lawan, the current senate president readily comes to mind as the likely person that would emerge as a wild card after the hurly-burly expected during the much-anticipated party primaries scheduled for this month end is over. Before, anyone makes the decision to start ‘beating up on me’ literarily, let us keep in mind that, it is not me, but the leaders of both the main opposition political party, PDP, lyorcha Ayu (in concert with the 37 wisemen) and APC’s Abdulahi Adamu, who irrespective of the mood of the nation which originally is to give the Igbos a chance to be president of Nigeria, that decided to throw the 2023 presidential contest open to both northern and southern aspirants. Intriguingly, the dramatic swing from the dominant sentiments of conceding the presidency in 2023 to the Igbos, to the current mood of throwing it open to all nationalities, actually happened only in the past couple of weeks. And the sea change validates, the observation by Harold Wilson, a former prime minister of the United Kingdom, UK, that one week is a long time in politics. POLL Although baffling, there are several conspiracy theories for the impending paradigm shift from the presidency rotating from the north to the south to throwing it open. And the most prominent is that if the main opposition party, PDP presents a northern candidate as it is likely to do, the ruling party, APC would be doomed not to win the presidential contest, if it does not also present a northern candidate. That narrative is simply predicated on the prevailing notion that the average northern voter (the biggest voting block) would always  vote for a northerner against any southern candidate presented, irrespective of the political platform . And it simply confirms the concept of a monolithic northern Nigeria. Assuming that is truly the case, then it validates the belief that there still exists a voting bias of northerners for only northern candidates, no matter the party that the candidate is flying their flag . And the import of that is that after over six (6) decades  of independence from colonial rule and more than a millennium post amalgamation of southern and northern protectorates of the British empire, disunity persists like the sword of Damocles hanging over Nigeria and disharmony has remained like an albatross. That is in spite of the mantra of one time Nigerian ruling party, National Party of Nigerians, NPN “one nation, one destiny” and a stanza in the old national anthem “though tribe and tongue may differ, in unity we stand.” lt is appalling that both referenced ideals have remained a mirage. And equally disturbing is that our beloved country has rather than improve on its multi-ethnic relationships for harmonious co-existence of the estimated 250 tribes and tongues that make up the union,the situation has calamitously degenerated with ethnic and religious divide expanding from a mere crack about a decade ago, into a huge gulf. This is evidenced by the voting patterns in the north fueling the decision to jettison rotation of presidency principle for emphasis on how best to position the party to win  elections. And the abysmally low level of education in the north particularly amongst the female that is worsened by the current religious Insurgency which has seen about 18 million Nigerian school children (mainly in the north) out of school, according to a survey conducted by UNICEF, is a culprit for the anomaly of northern voters casting their votes only for a presidential candidate of northern origin. The conventional wisdom, “educate a woman , educate a nation…” rings true here. It is trite to state that the low level of Western education of the masses in the north is largely responsible for the herd mentality or lack of voting independence of our northern brothers/sisters, who only vote for northern candidates and which is the reason being advanced as justification for both the APC and PDP intention to  feature northerners as their presidential candidates. And without taking into cognizance the feelings of other ethnic nationalities that make up Nigeria, a highly destructive crisis of monumental proportions  could be in the horizon. That is simply because some of our conscienceless politicians seem about to move our beloved country from frying pan to fire by jettisoning rotation of presidency principle which is a lesser evil. By now it should be clear to all that not narrowing the 2023 Presidential contest to a political zone, (particularly the south) as has been the practice in the past , and in tune with the spirit and letter of rotation of presidency principle, (practiced since the return of multi-party democracy in 1999) is the culprit for the present mad rush by every Tom, Dick and Harry to join the presidential race. Were the presidency to have been zoned to the south and perhaps to Igbos in particular, as had been envisaged and anticipated, the fleet of swans from the northern axis of our country currently strutting the presidential runway, would have at this stage been like spectators waiting in the wings to impress whoever emerges from the south as Presidential candidates of the two main parties with a view to becoming their running mates as was the case for the Yorubas in 1999 when Olusegun Obasanjo emerged as president and for the Hausa/Fulani in 2019 with president Buhari being re-elected. In compliance or in tandem with the rotation calculus , the north and south east in 1999 stood down their interest in the presidency and allowed  Olusegun Obasanjo and Olu Falae to become the exclusive presidential candidates of the two main political parties. And a similar gesture was extended to our northern brothers and sisters in 2019 when both the APC and PDP presidential candidates were president Mohammadu Buhari and ex Vice President,Atiku Abubakar. Contrarily,in the run up to 2023 general elections , the door into Aso Rock Villa that could have been opened exclusively for the lgbos, has been left ajar to welcome any and all that care to throw their hats into the ring. Hence, rather than being a contest  exclusive to the lgbos , at best , and the south ,at least,the presidential election in 2023 is currently a national binge. With aspirants numbering over 40, and the primaries scheduled to hold this month end, the contest for the presidency in 2023 is practically on the wire. And it seems to me that the motivating factor for the motley crowd can be captured in a popular colloquial parlance ‘monkey see, monkey do’ ; agam ni ibe aga’ in Igbo dialect and ‘mo gbo, mo ya’ in Yoruba dialect as well as ‘Yen abi yerima a sha kida’ with a similar meaning in Hausa dialect. Aside from the WaZoBia elements in the jostle for the presidency, not even the hefty expression of interest and nomination fees of a hundred (N100) million naira demanded by the ruling party, APC, or the N40m for the main opposition party, PDP has discouraged or deterred monied politicians and deep-pocketed businesses men and women alike from joining in the jamboree of which becoming president of Nigeria in 2023 has descended . It also has not helped that president Mohammadu Buhari in a recent television interview stated that he was keeping to his heart, the preferred candidate that he would like to hand over the keys to Aso Rock Villa, as the next occupant. What that presidential pronouncement has done, is throw the whole gamut of political actors and even nonpoliticians into a frenzy. Hence it is not surprising to me that becoming president of Nigeria in 2023, has assumed the dimension of a bazaar whereby Nigerians of all characters- including those challenged intellectually, morally and integrity wise are now staking their claim to becoming the next president of Nigeria which has practically debased the exalted office of president of Nigeria. One can bet that more than ever, most of the politicians and indeed most Nigerians with deep pockets who covet political power must be consulting prophets and marabouts who would be telling them that they are the  anointed candidate that president Buhari was alluding to in the most recent ,rare and now famous television interview. So, in this period of rising irrationality being exhibited by the demagogues, even as our president is keeping to his chest, who becomes president of Nigeria in 2023 like a JOKER in a game of cards, some governors are also attributing their choice of a successor to God, which is somehow blasphemous. In light of the above, it is not unexpected that all shades of characters would show up to participate in what can best be described as the epic auctioning of the Nigerian presidency to the highest bidder. Auctioning, not just in terms of money, but also in the sense of the ability, capacity, and who is better positioned to win the presidency between candidates from the two major political parties and with ethnic origins from the north or south as the major deciding factors, not equity and fairness that were previously the drivers of the rotation of presidency calculus. It is incredible how the rotation agreement that has hitherto balanced the precarious multi ethnic composition of our country is being stepped down, while prioritizing the ability and capacity to win the presidency in 2023. My fear is that the road to nationhood which has been topsy turvy over 62 years after independence may become more turbulent, if our leaders take the short term view pf neglecting the long term of power rotation that has so far been an efficacious panacea to the existential fear of disharmony. * Magnus Onyibe, author and development strategist, writes from Lagos *To be continued