The Coalition of Non-indigenes and Indigenes For Peace In AMAC (CNIFPA) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to arrest the President of Masarki Group Nigeria Ltd, Alhaji Saidu Yakubu Karshi, for mismanagement of government contracts in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). CNIFRA in a press conference organised by the group in Abuja alleged that Yakubu Karshi through his company after abandoning the projects for months with the excuse that Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) did not pay him all the money to execute some of the huge roads projects which are bridges and town halls in the FCT was the reason for his poor handling of the multi-billion naira projects. The businessman was accused of using his company Masarki Group Nigeria Ltd, to benefit from the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) projects awarded by the FCT administration to the FCT Area Councils. The President of the group, Nze Simon Okeke, and Secretary of the organisation Alhaji Usman Dauda said they believe in President Buhari’s leadership of transparency, accountability, justice, and fair play. According to them: “We are using this medium to inform you Mr President that this Masarki Group should be investigated over poor handling of the bypass road in Karu/ Mararaba axis constructed by the company and has been washed away because they were poorly done by this inefficient contractor. “Our independent investigation has shown that also his engagement to construct a bridge in Apo Karshi end party road is currently a disaster with nothing to show. And the contract awarded to him to build a standard town hall in Karshi was overinflated and built below the agreed contract standard. “He should be made to account for it because this is taxpayers’ money and the government can be made to lose heavily to a company that cannot execute such projects because of familiarity. “We are aware that he has diverted monies allocated to him to execute government projects to a sponsorship of his preferred chairmanship candidate in the just concluded AMAC chairmanship election and still sinking huge funds to bribe judges and security agencies to secure litigation in his favour,” they said. POLL The group also called for the prosecution of Yakubu Karashi who sponsored a chairmanship candidate in AMAC in the 2016 FCT area councils election, after negotiating with the council chairman that, that a total sum of N4,535,000 is paid to his other company Millennium Integrated Co. on monthly basis and further directed that 20 per cent of the entire revenue generated by the council be paid to the company account monthly as a compensation.