EKITI – Angry residents in Ado-Ekiti blocked major highways in protest of frequent attacks on them by gunmen believed to be kidnappers. Dajly Independent some gun-wielding men, suspected to be kidnappers, were said to have besieged the Pastor’s church Sunday evening and abducted him in the process The disquiet forced many commuters, particularly Mus­lims in the area to trek long dis­tances their praying grounds on Monday morning . -Advertisement- Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr. Sunday Abutu, said the command has swung into action and had started in­vestigating the Pastor’s alleged kidnapping. He said the Police Commis­sioner, Mr. Moronkeji Adesina , had ordered intensive patrol day and night in the area and across Ekiti to stem the tides of criminality. “The police in Ekiti are not taking anything to chances. We are doing our best to tackle crime and criminality. “The CP had ordered our patrol teams and team of de­tectives to up their games and ensure that those perpetrating crimes are brought to book. “If you notice, our night patrol had increased. And the CP had urged Rapid Response Squad to trail the alleged kid­napers and bring the man out from their den hale and hearty”, Abutu said. POLL One of the protesters, Ajayi Olayiwola, who lamented their ordeals in recent times in the area said the protest became imperative to compel the Po­lice Division at Ologede Police Station to provide the neces­sary security for the populace in the area. Olayiwola accused the po­licemen operating in the area of laxity, saying several entreat­ies made to them to extend pa­trol to the area were rebuffed for no stated reason. He added that over five cas­es of Kidnappings had been witnessed in the area in the last three months, describing the situation as terrifying and disturbing. He said some of the kid­napping and robbery cases witnessed in the area could have been averted, if the police had extended their patrol to the axis. “The state of insecurity in Irede community area is alarm­ing as we could no longer sleep with our two eyes closed. “This protest is to call the attention of appropriate au­thorities to find solution to the ugly development, particularly the police. “This disruption of free flow of vehicles is to send a signal to the public about our plight and for the police Command to do the right thing.”