Unless something urgent is done, delegates from Anambra State excluded from the national convention of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) billed for May 28 and 29 in Abuja may head to court to stop the Convention. The state chapter of the party on Sunday accused the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party of deliberately refusing to conduct the state Congress even though it had ratified the local government and ward congresses. This, officials of the party in a communique issued at a meeting attended by thousands of party members at the party Secretariat in Awka alleged that the move was deliberate to reduce the number of delegates to the Convention. -Advertisement- They also accused the national legal adviser of the party who they alleged was nominated by a party Chieftain Chris Uba of allegedly working against the interest of the party in the state. In the communique read by Mr Uche Obiorah, chairman of the Orumba North local government chapter of the party in the company of other local government chapters and officials of the party, the members cited a court case suit No. FCT/HC/CV/83/2022 which was against the ratified and approved list of wards and LGA Executives that emerged from the congresses conducted by the Electoral Committees constituted by the NWC with the approval of NEC and monitored by INEC  and security agencies in line with the guideline and Constitution of the party. They said following the actions of the National legal adviser in allegedly mortgaging the interest of the party, elected wards and local government executives who made complaints to the party leadership and requested to be given a fiat to enable them to defend themselves in court were flatly rejected by the national legal adviser. The communique posed three questions,  namely: who is the national legal adviser working for Anambra  State?Is it Chief Chris Uba and his cronies or the survival of the party in Anambra State? Why is the national legal adviser compromising his office and oath of office against the express decisions of the NWC of which he is a member? POLL They warned: “Be it known that those about being excluded from participating in the national convention are already threatening to commence legal action to stop the national Convention from taking place “. They called for the suspension of the national legal adviser for his clear and manifest unethical conduct and breach of his oath of office and that the state Congress in Anambra State be concluded, while ward and local government area congresses are ratified.