RAJI ADEBAYO and INNOCENT OWEH ABUJA / IBADAN – Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) on Thursday said a smarter way to preserve the future of Nigeria is for the Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to fund education and sign a decent agreement with the union to stop the over two months old strike. ASUU said the attitude of the president and his appointees to the strike since it started the ongoing strike over two months showed that they do not have the mind to liberate the poor children of the masses as well as give them quality education infrastructure through committed funding and signing a new decent welfare package for ASUU members. -Advertisement- Speaking through the Chairman, University of Ibadan chapter of ASUU, Professor Ayo Akinwole, stated that funding education remains the best way to shape the minds of youths to constructive development of their society. Akinwole in a release stated that the government ought to see that more children are getting out of school and are useful pawns to youths fighting back against the society that neglected them. The ASUU boss stated that the union was afraid that if there would be a country in the nearest future since “it seems more money is being pumped into security for war entrepreneurs to become millionaires and billionaires without addressing the causes of insurgency and terrorism. “ASUU started the ongoing strike on February 14, 2022 to force the government to implement outstanding 2009 agreements on revitalisation funding, earned academic allowances, proliferation of universities and sign a re-negotiated agreement with the union. “While the government has stopped payment of salaries to striking lecturers, Akinwole said weaponising hunger will not make the union suspend the strike but is more energised to fight to have a country and a future for the children of the poor from the traders of collective patrimony in government. “If those in government are smart, they should have seen evidence that pumping trillions of naira into fighting insecurity without getting result is a result of not doing the right thing. POLL If you fund education, the minds of the educated youths will be built to resist being used for criminality but since the government has been unresponsive, funding war may have become another opportunity where some people are making millions. “They don’t care about the increasing number of out of school children and they are not concerned about what facilities Nigerian children are exposed to. For ASUU, a smarter way of controlling growing insecurity and redirecting the minds of Nigerian youths to constructive and developmental activities is to build their human capacity and minds through purposeful funding of education by federal, state and local governments in Nigeria.” Meanwhile, the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU) on Thursday, resumed negotiations with a view to finding an amicable solution to the lingering industrial action. Speaking at the resumption of talks between the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of the unions and the Federal Government, the General Secretary of NASU, Comrade Peter Adeyemi, said the meeting initiated by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, appears to be yielding some desired results. Adeyemi, however, bemoaned the circumstances that led to declaration of the strike, saying they were equally pained that this action has been prolonged by the government. He said nobody should blame the unions for their action, adding that they were ready to go back to work as soon as the promises made to them in the last few years are fulfilled. “We don’t want to stay at home for one minute any longer but that will be dependent on how the government fulfills its own part of the agreement. So, we are here with an open mind. We don’t want to continue to disrupt the system. If the government refuses to fulfill its own part, we shouldn’t be blamed.” The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Andrew Adejo, who represented his principal, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, tendered an apology to the unions on behalf of his Minister. He said the impression that the Education Ministry abandoned their workers to their fate was not true but contrived to make it that way. He urged the unions to forgive in the spirit of the just concluded Lenten season and Ramadam, so that they would have a fruitful discussion, saying with the social apartheid arising from the spate of strikes and problems therefrom, the earlier the issues were resolved the better for everybody, especially the children and their education. Responding to the apology, Adeyemi said, “Part of the efforts you have made consistently has started yielding results. We are now seeing the permanent secretary of education here. We can recall very vividly that your Excellency have done so much to get our Employers to attend meetings, which have started achieving the desired result. Today, I am particularly happy that the new permanent secretary has come to apologise. “Honestly, I think the apology is not the problem for us. Our problem is that the Ministry should do what is exactly expected of them. They should assist the Ministry of Labour that is saddled with the responsibility of restoring order in our system. And if they do their own part, I am very convinced that the problem will be resolved.” Making remarks, Ngige expressed hope that the meeting would be truthful, fruitful and cordial, so that all those on strike would go back to work. Recall that while members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities ASUU have been on strike for over two months, other sister unions such as NASU, SSANU, NAAT have also been on strike to press home demands ranging from grievances associated with the implementation of the Integrated Personnel Payroll and Information System (IPPIS).