OCP Africa, global fertilizer giant is partnering Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture (SFSA) to groom growers and agro entrepreneurs to deploy greenhouse technologies to boost food security, exports and economic growth. The firm said it is collaborating with the government in the plan to modernise the agricultural sector by enhancing the competitiveness of agro entrepreneurs and diversifying the economy. Caleb Usoh, Country Manager for OCP, while speaking at a Horticulture Training of Trainers ( ToT) Master Class held in Abuja for Greenhouse managers, Field agents and Lead Farmers organised by OCP Africa, in partnership with SFSA reiterated the commitment of the company to contribute to the goals to end extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity. -Advertisement- He believes horticulture empowerment would help to create much-needed jobs by improving access to technologies, knowledge and markets, strengthening technical and managerial capacity in the farming and agri-business sector. With the growing population resulting in a demand for higher quality products, food safety, stable supply and more up-scaled and sustainable production, Usoh noted that institutions must joined forces to develop a modern greenhouse vegetable production sector to address the challenges. To get Nigeria on the map a for horticultural products, he reiterated that much must be done to improve the quality of the cultivation as demand fresh produce increases. He posited that modern greenhouse vegetable production can provide an innovative solution to meet the fast growing demand for high quality, safe and sustainable produced vegetables, which are year round available. He said OCP Africa was working to transfer skills and knowhow of controlled environment agriculture that can provide optimum efficiency and higher nutrient density and increase domestic crop production. POLL He explained that its partnership with SFSA was a collaboration to advance shared goals of sustainable and secure food production. The training builds the capacities of hub managers and community farmers networks to grow lucrative vegetables such as tomatoes, carrots, cabbages, spinach, and pumpkins, thereby enabling Nigerians access to nutritious food necessary for a balanced and healthy diet. He added that the training programme empowers farmers with the skills to feel really confident about investing in greenhouse growing techniques. According to him, the company has acquired greenhouses for its hubs located in 13 states, saying it has gone a long way in providing a diverse food basket to address nutritional requirements. So far, 35 standard 8 metres by 24 metres greenhouses have been established across major tomato production areas in Jigawa, Kano, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Abuja, and seven other states with over 20,000 farmers accessing quality seedlings and inputs as well as good agricultural practice training on modern production techniques as well as linkages to offtake markets and processors. During the training the participants learnt all the necessary skills needed to become successful horticulture entrepreneurs. One of the participants and Director, Akwa Ibom State University (AKSU) Commercial farm, Dr Edna Akpan, described the training as timely with the potential to enhance the competitiveness of farmers and agro entrepreneurs.