ABUJA – The death toll arising from the building collapse, which took place on Sunday on Ibadan Street, in the Ebute Metta area of Lagos State, has increased to 10. This is just as President Muhammadu Buhari has described the frequent incidence of building collapse as embarrassing. A statement by the National Emergency Management Agency confirmed the death toll on Monday. NEMA said, “Two male additional bodies recovered, making 10 deaths,” the acting coordinator, NEMA, Ibrahim Farinloye, said. Our correspondent reports that emergency responders put the recovered corpses in body bags, adding that the recovered corpses were deposited in some of the vehicles the emergency responders brought to the scene of the incident and were later taken to the mortuary. -Advertisement- No fewer than 23 persons including children were said to have been rescued alive. The occupants were said to be in their various apartments when the building suddenly collapsed and trapped some of them. Farinloye, who had confirmed the death of five occupants, said the collapsed structure had been marked for demolition. He said, “Another three-storey building, on Lagos Street, about 200 metres away from the current scene has shown signs of distress with its part throwing pebbles and falling off. “The building had also been marked as distressed but the occupants were deviant. However, the building has been re-sealed and occupants evacuated by officers of Lagos State Buildings Control Agency. “Four deaths including two males and two females while 23 people have been rescued alive including seven children and 16 adults. Another young man, Tahin, has just been recovered, causing five deaths.” POLL The Permanent Secretary, LASEMA, Dr. Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, in a statement late Sunday, said some of the injured victims were rushed to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital for urgent treatment. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has lamented the rate of buildings collapse in the country, stressing that the situation was assuming an embarrassing dimension. Buhari while commiserating with families of those who died or sustained injuries in the building collapse at Ebute Metta area of Lagos State, said it is high time the relevant state authorities worked closely with professional bodies to put a halt to the unfortunate but preventable incidents. His reactions came through a statement circulated by his media aide, Femi Adesina, to State House correspondents on Monday in Abuja. As at the time of filing this report, there were still search and rescue efforts at the site. The President, who said he was pained by the tragic incident, praised the courage and determination of the first responders, national and sub-national emergency agencies in Lagos State, and compassionate Nigerians, whose immediate action in the aftermath of the collapse of the three-storey building led to the rescue of several persons, including many children. “The frequency of building collapses in the country has become increasingly embarrassing, the relevant state authorities must work closely with professional bodies to put a halt to these unfortunate but preventable incidents,” the President stated in a terse message. He wished those injured a speedy recovery and prayed for divine assistance in the ongoing search and rescue operations. Recall that in Lagos also a high rise building under construction at Victoria Island had also collapsed killing several people in the process, including the owner of the building, Femi Osibona.