Aliyu Mohammed SK, Dan Majen Gudi on Sunday officially declared his intention to contest for the Federal House of Representatives of Fune and Fika constituency of Yobe State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It was a unique type of declaration as supporters from the two Local Government Areas all travelled to Fika town to witness the ceremony. Youths, women groups, party chieftains, elders, traditional dancers and other stakeholders occupied the venue. In his welcome remarks, the Chairman of the occasion Abdulmumini Zakari Anzai appreciated the mass turnout of the supporters despite the hot temperature. -Advertisement- “We are indeed grateful for this honour and love for our aspirant, Aliyu Mohammed SK, Dan Majen Gudi, he is one of your own, we solicit your maximum support and prayers, and we intend to make great changes when given the opportunity to serve”. On his part, the Coordinator of the Campaign Organization in the Fune local government area, Ahmed Shehu Damagum said that the movement will augur well for the constituents “because Aliyu Mohammed SK is a progressive person, we appeal to our stakeholders to ensure his success as his tenure will withness mass employment and empowerment of the youths”. Other speakers at the occasion include, Mu’azu Nuhu Damagum, Alhaji Ibrahim Daushe, Alhaji Bappayo, Jibir Turawa Maluri, Abdu Bukar Gadaka and Hajiya Yoroma Jajere. The Yobe State APC Youth Leader, Babangida Ibrahim Jajere appealed to the Youths to shun politics of bitterness. He also urged all to emulate the political strategy of Governor Mai Mala Buni of calmness and unity. “We also appreciate the leadership of Muhammad Gadaka, the Chairman of Yobe State APC”. POLL In his declaration speech, Mohammed Sk Dan-Majen Gudi said, “Our respected elders,The great men and women of our great Party, the All progressives Congress, Our women and youths, Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen”. ” I stand before you my dear people of Fika-Fune Federal Constituency to pay you back for making me what I am because whatever I achieved in life you are the one who natured and supported me to attain this feat. “It is no longer news that I am aspiring to contest for the position of Member, Fika – Fune Federal Constituency, as I have already picked my expression of interest and nomination forms on 27th of last month on my path to fulfilment of that aspiration that has already been disseminated in various media”. “Therefore, my meeting you today is to formally inform you of my declaration and to seek your blessings, wise counsels, advises and support in the realization of this aspiration”. “In fact, I am overwhelmed and elated with the mammoth gathering I am seeing today and this has given me the hope and confidence that you are poised and ready to give me your mandate to represent you at the House of Representatives if, by Allah’s will, I secure the nomination of my party at the primaries”. According to him “let me seize the opportunity provided by this gathering to extend my appreciation to all those who were with me when I picked my expression of interest and nomination forms in Abuja, sacrificing their time and not minding the Ramadan fast to attend the occasion. I am also grateful to all those who could not attend but sent their prayers and goodwill messages”. “My decision to contest is in response to the clarion call from eminent persons, groups, associations, women and our youths cutting across the various communities of our beloved Constituency supported by my family, friends and well-wishers”. Dan Majen Gudi further disclosed that “In the over twenty years since my graduation from the university as a geologist, I have been involved in many spheres of life. Immediately after my youth service and a short stint in public service, I moved to fulfil my childhood dream of becoming a Pilot. “After training as a Pilot I flew for some years both locally and internationally then took into air transport management, hydro-geology, aircraft spare parts, maintenance and acquisition, oil exploration, security equipment logistics and other businesses. I am either Chairman or MD of most of these ventures”. “As an aviator, I have been part of federal government delegations to many air shows and aviation-related assignments. In the course of such assignments, I became a member of many professional bodies both locally and internationally. “My dealings in various pursuits have also exposed me to many people in every continent in almost 50 countries”. ” cut my political teeth as a student when I became a member of the Students’ Representative Assembly at Unimaid and later President of the Nigerian Association of Geophysics and Mining Students Unimaid Chapter.” “.I became a card-carrying member of defunct APP since its inception and later that of ANPP. With the emergence of APC,I did not only become its card-carrying member but also an active member of its various youth organizations that brought me closer to most of the top heavyweights of the Party”. “Taking cognizance of my experience in various fields of life and in politics,l felt am sufficiently equipped and prepared to carry the mandate of my people in fulfilling my burning desire, love and passion in bringing fresh ideas to entrench a sustainable socio-economic growth and poverty alleviation among them”. “Our people have been pauperized by the ravages of the Boko Haram insurgents in addition to the general downturn in the economy further traumatized by the covid 19 scourge. These setbacks have created endemic poverty among our people and it requires a conscious effort and carefully crafted programmes of action to resuscitate the hitherto vibrant socio-economic life of our communities”. “.I am happy through the efforts of our various representatives and our indefatigable Governor, His Excellency, Hon. Mai Mala Buni so much developmental progress has been achieved in our communities but we still need to do more, as the State Government alone cannot meet the expectations of our people due to challenges of resources”. “.If I am given the chance to represent you, I will uphold the confidence reposed in me by articulating and presenting your interests and grievances at the Legislature by coming up with motions and bills in consonance with those causes”. “My projects and programmes will be focused mainly on wealth creation, agricultural development, employment, empowerment, education, water supply, health and sports”. “Agriculture as the main occupation of our people will receive a very big boost by deploying experts in agric economics and extension to training our rural farmers on modern techniques of farming, distribution of fertilizer and other support towards increased yield so as to do away with our archaic farming system that has for years failed in taking our farmers out of poverty”. “We shall institute measures to make our small scale businesses buoyant to achievesustainable wealth creation by attracting credit schemes and other financial support with lesser interest rates so that our people will not be crippled by the burden of debt”. “Our youth and women need to be equipped with various skills with take-off grant and required tools to make them self reliant to become not only useful to themselves but to the society at large. The empowerment of our youth is necessary for the future progress of our societies because any society that does not invest in its youth has no future. “In line with the indisputable fact that when you educate a woman you are educating the whole family, we shall give much emphasis to girl child education”. “We shall make efforts to identify our qualified youth to further their education by getting them scholarships both in the Country and outside. Youths who are qualified for employment will also be assisted in getting jobs for them to fill our quota in various ministries and organizations where we are highly underrepresented at the moment”. “Water as an important source of life is also a top priority of our agenda. Communities without good sources of water will be provided with solar and motorized boreholes with augmentation of hand pumps”. “In keeping with the common adage that says health is wealth we will bring health outreach services periodically to address the health challenges of our people towards creating healthy able-bodied men and women without which no human endeavour will prosper”. “Sports particularly football will be given stimulus to foster unity among our various communities by organizing a tournament to be competed for among the major towns in our Constituency and for self-advancement of our youth. Football pitches across the communities will be constructed and rehabilitated with the provision of kits to clubs while young talents will be scouted for signing them up with professional clubs within and outside the country”. “In fulfilling our set targets and goals our Party manifesto will also be taken into consideration. I cannot arrogate to myself the absolute knowledge of bringing a panacea to our challenges therefore I shall be consulting widely and seeking for the advice of all our constituents in whatever I do and I will also promote unity among our people. Finally, I thank all those who have honoured me today our community leaders, party executives, our great party men and women, our youth and people from all walks of life. I assure all and sundry that I am absolutely committed to upholding and justifying your mandate, if you give me your support, by voting massively to me if, by Allah’s will, I pick the ticket of our great party”.