With Nigeria’s presence at the recently concluded ‘Investing Mining Ndaba’ World’s largest and most impactful mineral resources convention, the country has fully stakes a claim in global mining investment destination with the attendant gains already trickling in, writes NICHOLAS UWERUNONYE. The ceremony was a fitting testimony of a shift from mere policy making to that of policy implementation and marketing, as it were. Two companies, Nigerian and Swiss firms, both signed a pact to develop precious metals and artisanal gold mining value chain. -Advertisement- The event happened on the sidelines of the ‘Investing in African Mining Indaba’ at the Cape Town, South Africa. The companies, Dukia Gold and Precious Metals Refining Company Limited, Nigeria, and Philoro Global Trading AG Switzerland, signed a Working Together Agreement to deepen participation in the extractive industry as well as consolidate strategies in the development of programmes needed to exploit the expected benefits in the sector. This is way different from signing some obscure agreements in Abuja only to be left on implemented as it used to be. That it happened at the African Mining Ndaba speaks volume of Nigeria’s mining industry coming of age especially at this critical time. This much, Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite, acknowledged at the event which took place, 10, May this year. POLL With improved funding in the Nigeria Mining sector, spurred by a new vision, the ministry has recorded remarkable results and progress with the roadmap objectives, which is evident in the launch of the Nigerian barite. Also, a major component of this initiative is the promotion of local content in the production, quality assurance and sale of barite that meets the American Petroleum Institute standard, which is the global bench mark accepted by the oil industry. The benefits of Nigerian barite to mention a few include, accelerated development of the sector along the Barite value chain, increased revenue to Government through Royalty payment, conservation of foreign exchange spent on importing barite, job creation along the Barite value chain especially in the local communities where the barites are mined, local Content promotion in line with federal government policy. Federal government has since been looking for any opportunity to replicate the barite success, hence the trip to South Africa. The Mining Ndaba, for the past 27 years has been the world’s leading conference in Mining. The last one in May was a jam-packed week of networking, deal-making, and pioneering discussions from influential leaders. This year’s overarching theme was the ‘Evolution of African Mining: Investing in the Energy Transition, ESG, and the Economies’. Looking to the future with hard-hitting streams that bring change to the industry. The mining convention played host to three Heads of State and one Prime Minister; the President of South Africa, H.E. Cyril Ramaphosa, President of Botswana H.E. Mokgweetsi Masisi and the newly elected President of the Republic of Zambia H.E. Hakainde Hichilema, and the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of Congo H.E. Jean-Michel Sama Lukonde Kyenge, who all shared their visions for the future directly to the Mining Indaba community. Nigeria has been part of the event for several years because of its determination to see exponential growth of the mining sector’s contribution to our GDP more than it has done in the past forty years. “We are here to collaborate and network with global leaders, professionals, investors, Chief Executives of junior, mid-tier and major mining companies. Our mineral sector is enormous and there is need for infrastructure investment in the mining sector and Nigerian Government has deployed a lot in funding, policies and regulations to transform the mining sector. This is not to say that we are free from challenges but it is to demonstrate that every day we are at work. “Gold, lead, zinc, limestone and coal are among seven strategic minerals the Nigerian government has identified for investment. Nigeria has been trying to boost the sector as part of efforts to diversify its economy and our collective goal is to see that we contribute our meaningful and sustainable quota to achieve success,” the minister said at the Cape Town International Conventions Center, South Africa. No less enthusiastic was Dr. Umar Hassan, DG/CEO, National Steel Raw Materials Exploration Agency, at the Nigerian Presence at the Mining Ndaba and the outcomes there from. “The ministry, headed by the honourable minister, did us very proud in South Africa during the Mining Indaba conference. The minister had a couple of meetings with foreign investors who showed interest in coming to the Nigerian mining sector. “The permanent secretary also supported the minister in his drive to attract foreign investment into the country. I believe that more major mining companies would begin to show interest in coming to Nigeria as we are endowed with over 44 different types of minerals in commercial quantities. “The Nigerian mining sector has a lot to gain from participating in international mining conferences,” he said. To this end mining sector players say that Nigeria’s presence in South Africa and the deals signed, especially like the done by Dukkia Gold and the Swiss firm, comes with enormous significance. It is a a major step towards trading of gold and gold products in Nigeria. Dukia Gold has been a frontier company blazing trails where other people have not been. They have done extensive work in trying to bring the value chain in the gold business, gold assets to Nigeria. “This will further deepen with Philoro coming on board with its experience in this industry. “In this day of instability in currencies and volatility all over the world, gold being a safe haven does not have to be the exclusive of the wealthy and rich. Nigerians can buy gold coins, which they can keep and invest on and trade. Giving further details on the deal and agreement, Chief Operating Officer (COO) and Executive Director Dukia Gold, Paul Beesley, said that the objective of the agreement was to bring about the establishment of a Precious Metals Trading programme centered in Nigeria, to service and support the Nigerian market and potentially use it as a basis to offer similar products to other African Markets. Besides, he said the partnership would assist in developing finance and technical support solutions to unlock Dukia Gold’s responsible sourcing of Dore’ strategies, including evaluation and development of new projects and supporting Small scale and Artisanal mining programmes. The partnership, he said, would strengthen and expand the Dukia Gold Precious Metals Refinery in support of the goal of being able to aggregate gold doré from third-party sources in Nigeria and across West Africa. He said the ultimate target is to produce world class Good Delivery Bars and Coins. “Our commitment to work together with Dukia Gold will further promote and develop other important and relevant opportunities in the Precious Metals value chain in Nigeria and West Africa, through skills and knowledge transfer, capacity and capability building and the institution of beneficial engagements with host communities,” Beesley added. Indeed, Nigeria appears to have learnt great lesson from its over reliance on oil. The minister spoke eloquently about this in South Africa while wooing investors. Nigerian has one of the largest reserve of bitumen of 42.74 billion metric tons, which has remained unexploited for decades. But government has been on and about in the last couple of years in opening up the sector. “With our recent lunch of concessioning of the delineated bitumen blocks and with a growing population of 2.5 percent, the development of Nigerian Bitumen will lead to import substitution, local content development, increased value addition of the mining industry to domestic economy, creation of jobs, increased internal generated revenue and intensification of rural infrastructural development. “Indeed the ministry is poised to welcome global investment partners and the establishment of the Investment Promotion and Mineral Trade Department demonstrates our zeal. We have put in place incredible incentives to support investors and to unlock the sector, the minister said.”