More than 500 rural dwellers from Sanga community in Toro Local Government Area of Bauchi State have benefited from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) medical outreach programme. Speaking during the commencement of the exercise, the State Coordinator of NYSC, Alhaji Namadi Abubakar, said that the outreach is aimed at enhancing accessibility to health care services by rural dwellers. He said that the medical outreach which will include treatment for malaria, hypertension, diarrhoea, Cholera, diabetes, typhoid amongst others, is being organized by NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD). -Advertisement- According to him, the free medical service was to promote the wellbeing of indigent persons at the grassroots by granting them easier access to free and quality healthcare, adding that other ailments that requires emergency treatment will be referred to other hospitals in the state. “As far as the programme is concerned, we have touched some nooks and cranny of Bauchi state. Last year, we were in Duguri village in Alkaleri Local Government Area of the state and equally, we went to Giade LGA for the same programme and we are particular in going only to rural areas. “We are here in the Sanga community in Toro Local Government for the same medical outreach to attend to our people who might have been longing to see doctors for quite long but due to lack of financial capability, they could not do so. “Our team which comprises medical doctors, pharmacists, nurses and lab scientists are here to comfort these people with their expertises. “My expectation is that the people of this community would benefit a lot from this medical outreach because we brought the drugs that will take care of those ailments,” he said. POLL In his vote of thanks on behalf of the people of the community, Malam Garba Jauro, the village head, appreciated the Director-General of NYSC, Maj.-Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim for the kind gesture. He urged the people of the community to come out to avail themselves of the opportunity to benefit from the free medical outreach.