Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma, has cleared the air on the real situation of its 17 oil well dispute with Rivers State, saying the National Boundary Commission verdict would put the matter to rest. He stated this at a meeting with journalists in Lagos, where he also took the opportunity to apprise the public of the good his administration has done so far. It would be recalled that a few days ago, the apex court in a unanimous decision by a seven-man panel of Justices led by Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, had partly resolved the ownership dispute of the oil wells in favour of Rivers State. -Advertisement- It held that the oil wells located within Akri and Mbede communities, belong to Rivers State. Speaking on the issue, Gov. Uzodinma explained that, “the Federal High Court in Abuja looked into the case and gave a judgement that the oil wells be shared between Imo and Rivers equally pending when National Boundary Commission would go to the place and demarcate the boundaries by pointing out the oil wells that belong to Imo State and those that belong to Rivers. “The Rivers State appealed the judgement and the Court of Appeal gave the same ruling. While the matter was still pending at the Appeal Court, they rushed to the Supreme Court, and then an ex-parte motion to maintain the status quo of 50-50 was given.” On the activities of his administration, Gov. Uzodimma made reference to his recent award as Governor Of The Year 2021 by Sun Newspapers. “That I was given an award does not come as a surprise. I had started looking for this position from 2003 to 2007, till I came in 2019. When I came in to rule Imo State, I had my programmes and vision. I had no room for prevarication, so I went straight to my action plan to recover the state. Many are aware that by 2019, Imo State was completely lost. POLL “By then those who were behind the murder and burial of the state came out and started creating these distractions. The speed with which I attacked my action plan showed that, up to the extent of implementation, simultaneously creating quality, access roads that have not been seen in Imo State for over 20 years. This is up to the creation of public water, which started six months after I came into office,” he clarified. He added that “I cleaned the environment and started rehabilitating the hospitals. As an improvised arrangement, I imported over 12 mobile clinics for rural health care to manage the COVID-19 pandemic pending when we will rehabilitate our health facilities. I was doing a lot of things like recovering the industries built by the late Sam Mbakwe. Adapalm that was down for over 19 years started producing 200 tonnes of palm oil a day. I had to negotiate with AMCON, paid over N1billion and recovered IMO Standard. I didn’t have time for any celebrations, we simply wanted to become the real central hub for the entire Eastern economy.“