As the just-concluded APC primaries in Kogi State continue to elicit reactions from the party members, an aspirant in the central Senatorial election held on Saturday in Okene, Hajia Ramatu Shehu Attah, has described the poll as fraudulent, illegal, null and void that should not be upheld. Ramatu Shehu Attah gave the hint at a press briefing in Lokoja on Tuesday, lamented that the laid down guidelines of the party for the 2023 elections were not followed in addition to other irregularities that were exhibited during the exercise. She, therefore, declared that the purported outcome of the election should be discarded as there were no APC primaries in the zone and no candidate has emerged, demanding that a fresh election be conducted. -Advertisement- “As it is now, APC should be prepared to conduct fresh primaries in Kogi Central Senatorial District to give room for a level playing ground for all the aspirants and to ensure that the laid down guidelines are strictly followed” She pleaded. She dissociated herself from what she described as a Kangaroo Primaries, which she staged a boycott for fragrant disobedience to party guidelines. “There was no accreditation of delegates. We were still shocked that Alhaji Yahaya Karaku, a political appointee was made the Returning Officer for the election contrary to APC Guidelines. This is a gross aberration of the rules” She lamented. The senatorial hopeful described the activities of the Congress as a selection and not an election, and said what happened at the venue of the primary election was what was obtained in the animal farm. She called on her teeming supporters to remain calm despite the obvious manipulation while asking for a level playing field for the people to choose their preferred candidate. POLL She decried the purported allocation of 13 votes recorded in her name as deceit to cover their nefarious action, saying, she left the venue with her agent before the alleged completion of the exercise. She further, disclosed that in her estimation, no Primary was held in Kogi Central, and described the results published on Social media as fictitious and laughable with imaginary votes allocated. Recalled that Hajia Ramatu Shehu and Alhaji Dalhatu Sheriff had staged a walk out of the venue, for what they tagged open scheming for Engineer Sadiq Ohere, the eventual winner, who scored 160 votes while Ramatu Shehu and Dalhatu Sheriff were allegedly given 13 and 11 votes respectively.