As the extended warning strike embarked by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) comes to an end on Friday, May 13th, indications are rife that the union may declare an indefinite strike. Recall that the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu had, on Thursday, apologized to striking workers of various bodies of Nigerian universities for not responding on time to their demands, asking them to forgive him and the Ministry in the spirit of the just ended Muslim fasting month of Ramadan. Adamu, who appealed at a reconciliatory meeting in Abuja brokered by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, and urged the unions including the striking Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASSU), the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities (NASU), as well as other aggrieved workers, to give the Ministry another chance at resolving the lingering crisis that has affected tertiary education in the country. -Advertisement- Contrary to the FG’s penitent posture, the ASUU leadership declared that it was yet to receive any notice of a meeting ahead from the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, saying the next line of action would be decided after the expiration of the warning strike. A statement by the acting spokesman of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Patience Onuobia, quoted Ngige as saying, “The Federal Government will resume talks with ASUU by next week as part of moves to end the lingering strike by the lecturers.” A source close to ASUU confirmed to Daily Independent that the government through the Minister of Education, Minister of Labour and Employment or its representatives is yet to receive any notice of a meeting. According to the source, the National Executive Council (NEC) of ASUU will decide on the next line of action should the government fail to take advantage of the few days to the two months warning strike to make a difference and allow students to return for studies. However, the protest by students that commenced last week may elicit increased participation as they have vowed to continue and escalate the protest tagged, “The University of Streets”. POLL Recall that aggrieved students from the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and University of Benin (UNIBEN) last week took to the streets for two days in protest against the strike embarked by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. The protesting Uniben students walking along the Ugbowo-Lagos expressway in Benin City have earlier taken their grievances to the King Square area of the city, demanding an end to the strike.