Following the 12-week extension of the industrial action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has vowed to block all federal roads and airports in the country in protest. The student body who made this known on Monday in a statement issued by its National President, Sunday Asefon condemned the inaction of President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government over the strike which started on February 14, 2022. A statement titled, ‘ASUU Strike Extension: The silence of the Government and the ruling class; the nation must feel the heat’ condemned the continued silence of the FG and the failure of the government officials to reach an agreement with ASUU because they could afford private institutions for their children. -Advertisement- NANS President, however, disclosed that the students of public universities would disrupt all primary elections and conventions by political parties scheduled for May ending. The statement partly read, “Having exhausted all window of constructive engagement with the government. I, on behalf of the national leadership of NANS therefore declare National Action from May 10, 2023. “The National Actions is tagged ‘Operation Test Run’ and shall be held in all the 36 states of the Federation. Federal roads across the 36 states shall be occupied for a minimum of three hours daily. The Operation shall be a precursor to a total shutdown that will be decided during our Senate meeting/pre-convention on Saturday 14th May 2022. Our proposal to congress on the 14th shall be total blockage of the airport roads across the country and total disruption of political party primaries, blockage of the national assembly until they are committed to passing legislation banning public office holders from sending their children to university abroad. “By this release, all JCC Chairmen, Zonal Leaderships and stakeholders are directed to act appropriately and ensure total compliance to the directive of ‘Operation Test Run’ shut down the federal roads in your State, the nation must feel the heat.”