ONITSHA – The Anambra State High Court sitting in Atani, Ogbaru Judi­cial Division has directed the State Commissioner for Trade, Commerce, and Industry, Dr. Obinna Ngonadi and the Attor­ney General of Anambra State to maintain the status quo in Ogbaru Main Market Traders Association (Relief Market). Justice A.O. Okuma, who gave the order following motion exparte seeking an interim or­der of the court to restrain the respondents from removing the elected executive of the market, adjourned the hearing to June 3, 2022. Barrister B.C. Uzuegbu (SAN), had in a Suit No. AT/ MISC43/2922 brought an ap­plication of motion exparte, seeking an interim order to restrain the respondents and their privies from removing the applicants and replacing them with a Caretaker Committee without being confronted with any allegation and being given the opportunity to be heard in line with Section 36(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria pending the determination of the sub­stantive application. -Advertisement- However, in spite of the or­der the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Chine­du Ike, in a letter dated May 19, 2022, insisted that the Ministry would constitute a Caretaker Committee to oversee the af­fairs of Ogbaru Main Market pending the determination of the petitions and counter-peti­tions received in respect of the election of January 25, 2022 and publish the findings. But Chief Uzuegbu (SAN) in letter to the Commission­er for Commerce, copied to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Chief Uzuegbu pointed out that the phantom petitions against the election that brought Chief Ndubuisi Ochiogu Executive on January 25, 2022, was the handiwork of “those who feel that their man is in power. Therefore they shall uproot a duly elected executive by mere intrigues.” He said the commissioner should be aware that if there was any petition, justice, decen­cy and good faith demands that his client’s attention should be drawn to such petition, which will afford him opportunity to respond to the issues raised by the petitions. That, he said, would have afforded the commissioner the vantage position to reach a just conclusion. “The letter under reference shows that the petitions have not been drawn to the attention of our clients. The government is yet to “investigate the allega­tions and series of petitions re­ceived as regard the election.”