The Ijaw National Congress (INC) has urged the people in Rivers State to seek the support of their Rivers brothers in their quest to produce the next governor of the state in the 2023 general elections. A press statement on Sunday signed by  Prof Benjamin Okaba, President of INC, urged the Ijaw people in Rivers State to seek the support of their brothers in  Etche, Ekpeye, Ikwerre, Ogoni and Ogba in the quest for the governorship seat in 2023. The group also expressed gratitude to all Ijaw people, especially their brothers in the state for the very peaceful organisation of the Ijaw Solidarity Rally for the sensitisation of its people towards a legitimate political goal. According to the statement, nothing less was expected because the Ijaws have embraced peace and not out of fear of anyone or group. The statement reads in part, “For the avoidance of doubt, I want to reiterate the sum of what was said at the event with the theme: Ijaw People United for One Nigeria: “That the INC supports the just desire of Ijaws in Rivers State to seek the office of Governor of the State, and that the people should register in their numbers to vote. “That Hon Dr Farah Dagogo should be released without condition and his right to a fair trial respected,” the statement reads. Okaba urged the Ijaw people to be resolute in the pursuit of their rights knowing that they are God given, self-evident and guaranteed by the laws of Nigeria. “Therefore be vigilant and follow all legal means to protect them,” he said. POLL “We urge all state actors at Federal, State and local levels to refrain from threatening, or actually misusing state power for vindictiveness, totalitarianism and bullying innocent citizens, which can only lead to anarchy in Nigeria. “Today, Farah Dagogo has become in the eyes of the world a prisoner of conscience. We call on the Federal Government to set him free now,” the statement reads. The President of INC appealed to the Ijaw people across Nigeria to continue to be law-abiding in the pursuit of their aspirations, stressing that the road to emancipation will be long and arduous but with God’s help they shall prevail.