LAGOS – The 1991 set of Holy Ghost Col­lege Owerri Old Boys has do­nated to their Alma Mata a be­fitting modern kitchen, which they built. At a well-attended event that took place at the school prem­ises recently, the 1991 set of the school’s Old Boys said their desire to build the facility was to give back to the school that prepared them for what they are now. Speaking during the dona­tion, Mr. Enyinna Onyeukwu, chairman of the 1991 set of the Old Boys Association , said they were at their Alma Mater to give back to the school what it gave to them many years ago which has gone a long way to making them successful in their various fields. -Advertisement- Onyeukwu said it was grati­fying to give back to Holy Ghost College in appreciation to what the school did to them. The project committee Chairman, Mr. Henry Iberi, ex­pressed his joy on the successful completion of the project and the quality of work done by the contractor. Echoing similar sentiment, Hon. Samuel Obodo, the Public Relations Officer of the 1991 set of the Old Boys, appreciated the school for preparing them for to­day’s challenges. Appreciating the 1991 Old Boys Association, the Principal of the school, Rev. Fr. Samuel Agu, commended them for the gesture. At the unveiling of the modern kitchen which was performed by the Most Rev. Dr. Moses Chikwe, the Auxiliary Bishop of Owerri Archdiocese, the Principal challenged both individuals, corporate bodies, as well as old students of the school at both the chapters and national levels to rise up to the challenge of building projects in the school for “our children to come and have conducive teach­ing and learning environment.” POLL He said, “Sincerely we are very much grateful to the Holy Ghost College Owerri Old Boys, especially the 1991 set for this state-of-the-art ultra-modern kitchen,” he noted. The Principal thanked the Archbishop for finding time to come and inaugurate the proj­ect, even as he blessed the 1991 set of the Old Boys Association, praying that they would contin­ually grow in their endeavours.