KANO – The Vice-Chancellor of Kano University of Science of Technology (KUST) Wudil, Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa on Tuesday welcomed the decision of the Kano state government to renamed the institution after the Africa richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote. A statement by the Deputy Registrar (Information and Public Relations) of the institution, Alhaji Sa’idu Abdullahi Nayaya, on behalf of the Vice Chancellor that was made available to INDEPENDENT noted that Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa described the action as appropriate and timely. The statement stated that, “Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa on behalf of the Council Management, Senate, Staff, Students and entire University Community welcomes the New name of the University: Aliko Dangote University of Science and Technology Wudil (ADUST).” -Advertisement- It further stated that, “Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa paid glowing tributes to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Members of Kano State Executive Council for this wonderful development. He also appreciated the support from Kano State Commissioner for Higher Education Honourable Dr. Mariya Mahmoud Bunkure and her Ministry. “The Vice-Chancellor also passed enccomiums on the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council Professor Zubairu Iliyasu and his Council for the selfless service they always perform for the progress of the University. Professor Shehu commended the Kano State Government for recognizing worth and appreciating excellence in Alhaji Aliko Dangote, the University’s Chancellor, a great Captain of Industry and philanthropist who touches many lives everyday. “As for the University, Aliko Dangote has brought many interventions for its progress. These include building hostels of 500 bed spaces each for male and female students, sponsoring the University’s Maiden Retreat in Kaduna, Provision of 660KVA standby Generators, stepping down the 33KVA line into the Campus. Other Dangote’s contributions to the Institution includes “ongoing recruitment of 15 Professors, paying their salaries and wages for four years and construction of 15 luxury houses as their official residences, bringing more linkages and affiliations with institutions and Corporate Bodies, both within and outside Nigeria to the University.” POLL Dangote also “Facilitates the design and production of an aggressive agricultural masterplan by the university in the field of Rice, Fisheries, Palm oil, Tomatoes and Sugarcane productions to benefit over a Million Farmers, giving automatic employment to First Class graduates of the University, sinking an Industrial Borehole in the University Campus to checkmate and improve water supply for a 30,000 population, providing N100M for landscaping the Campus and production of Masteplan.” The Vice Chancellor also congratulated the Chancellor Aliko Dangote for the immortalization and prayed that, “may it spur him to continue to love and hold the University very dearly and on the part of the University, assured him that all stakeholders will remain loyal, obedient and committed for its progress.”