Lucas Torreira insists he wants to stay at Fiorentina, but the Tuscans must reach an agreement with Arsenal. The Uruguay international spent the last season on loan at the Stadio Artemi Franchi, but the Tuscans have not yet made his move permanent. They have a €15m option to buy, which hasn’t been triggered yet. The player’s agent Pablo Bentancur revealed last week that Fiorentina and Torreira haven’t agreed on his salary, but the Uruguay international suggests that Fiorentina and Arsenal haven’t shaken hands yet. -Advertisement- “My intention is to stay at Fiorentina. But it will be necessary for the club to find an agreement with Arsenal. I’m perfectly fine in Florence. In am fine in Italy,” he told Fan Page. Torreira loves living in Italy and had a key role in helping Fiorentina return to Europe for the first time in five years. He scored five Serie A goals in 2021-22 and wants to remain in Florence beyond the summer. “It was a very positive year, even if we failed to qualify for Europa League. Perhaps, we deserved something more, but in the end, when you lose games, it means that you did not do everything you could. “Sometimes, you must accept that opponents may be superior. Much credit goes to the coach, who made me feel important to the team. “Personally, I felt very loved by the teammates and fans, and when you have confidence in your means and feel trust from people around you, everything goes for the best. All these conditions helped me make it to the top and reach my record for goals in a season. POLL “People are very kind in Italy, I love the quality of life,” the midfielder continued. “Whenever I can travel through different regions and cities I see the similarity of the city centres, with historical architectures. I feel like in the past, like nothing’s changed.” What’s his favourite Italian dish? “Uh, I have to admit I like almost everything. When I arrived in Italy I ate a few things, practically no vegetables, I didn’t even like ham and mozzarella. Then I changed, but I think in the end my favourite dish is carbonara.” Which are the differences from England? “Totally distinct, on and off the pitch. In England, however, they offer the best football product. For me, the best football is played in the Premier League. “I say this because I had the chance to play in Italy, Spain and England, and in the Premier League, there is much more intensity and it’s all more spectacular. It’s better for people at the stadium or those who watch the games on TV. The 26-year-old joined Arsenal from Sampdoria in a €29m deal in 2018 and has played 89 games with the Gunners, scoring four goals.