When the history books are opened on Manchester United ‘s 2021-22 season, you’d be hard-pressed to find much positivity. Rife with problems on and off the pitch and baring the bitter fruits of a disjointed club structure, the Red Devils find themselves heading into new boss Erik ten Hag ‘s first campaign with little to show for their measly efforts. One man whose impact can’t be questioned – at least recently – is Cristiano Ronaldo, having scored 24 goals in 38 games throughout his honeymoon return. While his rampant form in front of goal certainly isn’t a reflection of any desired improvement under interim manager Ralf Rangnick, Ronaldo’s personal uptick late in the term has come as a result of United’s rather pathetic plight – and the reasons why are clear. -Advertisement- Rewind to February 15 and the five-time Ballon d’Or winner went into his side’s Premier League clash with Brighton without a single goal across his six games in 2022. The Red Devils were competing in three competitions at that point and due to an outbreak of Covid-19 at Carrington, were playing every few days to make up for lost time. In that period, the club suspended Mason Greenwood, loaned out Anthony Martial and dealt with yet another injury to Edinson Cavani. Ronaldo, therefore, became tasked with leading the line solo, something his mind would’ve relished but 37-year-old body – pristine as it is – wouldn’t. Enduring a barren spell of one goal in 10 games, Ronaldo was ruled out of the Manchester derby with a hip problem, a contentious reason which critics doubted. But after a full two-week break, the Portuguese came back with a bang; scoring a phenomenal hat-trick against Tottenham Hotspur to fire his teammates to victory in what should’ve been a turning point in United’s season. Three days later, Ronaldo was neutered against Atletico Madrid for the second time in 1-0 loss, a dire defeat which knocked them out of the Champions League. That enforced another lengthy break for him until two crucial World Cup play-off matches for Portugal. Their captain, while not scoring, led the line impressively and guided his nation to the World Cup finals with two wins. Missing the first league game back against Leicester City and then blanking against Everton, Ronaldo returned to action seven days later in emphatic fashion to score another hat-trick in a victory over Norwich City, looking fresh for the run-in. Tragically, though, the father of four would be ruled out of a midweek trip to Liverpool due to the passing of his baby son.