***Calls For More Attention LAGOS – Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, Lagos State Deputy Governor has expressed the readiness of the state government to partner with the International Table Tennis Federation and African Table Tennis Federation to encourage more Nigerians to engage in table tennis to get more ranking. He stated this on Tuesday while receiving delegates from the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) and the African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF) led by Waheed Oshodi, Executive Vice President, International Table Tennis Federation, who was on a “Thank You Visit” to the State Government. -Advertisement- Speaking at the backdrop of the exploits of Haruna Quadri in international table tennis, Dr. Hamzat noted that Nigerians are doing well in Table Tennis and a lot of attention should be given to table tennis to get a lot of Nigerians to emulate Haruna Quadri. Hamzat added that the state is very excited and proud to see, for the first time, an African in the list of the first ten International Table Tennis players, Haruna Quadri. “We are extremely excited to see Haruna Quadri doing well” he said. He noted that the emergence of a Nigerian at the top ten positions shows the quality of work the team and everybody involved has put together to encourage our people to make sure they put more effort in winning laurels for the country. He stated that Lagos State is ready to support and host any of the Table Tennis competitions organized by the federation to make sure that they have a very successful outing. Earlier in his remarks, Oshodi stated that the delegation were in the RoundHouse to convey their sincere appreciation to the State Government for the continuous support enjoyed annually in the hosting of the table tennis championship in the state. POLL He stated that the state government has remained a strong pillar behind the development of African Table Tennis as it has in the past 10 years continued to give financial and infrastructural support to the federation for the successful hosting of its numerous competitions aimed at the development of table tennis in Africa. “For the past ten years, Lagos State has been the backbone behind African Table Tennis”. Oshodi noted further that such support has assisted players like Haruna Kadri to be among the first ten in international table tennis, a feat which is the first in Nigeria. Speaking further, the ITTF Executive Vice President described the standard of sports activities in Lagos as similar to the international standards ascribing that as the reason important tournaments are held in the state. He rated the state 100% in terms of organization especially the fan massive turnout, support enjoyed by the people of the state especially the spirit of Lagos which always comes to every game. The Vice President noted that the ITTF and the ATTF will be having three tournaments in Lagos State; West African Championship, African Club championship and the African Cup Similarly, the President, Africa Table Tennis Federation, Khaleed Wl-Salhy stated that Lagos State has been the center of table tennis in Africa and the environment has been conducive. He added that the federation trusts the organizational skills and facilities required by the players which are always readily made available by the Lagos State Government for the players.