As Muslims all over the country celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitri, the spiritual head, Shafaudeen in Islam worldwide, Professor Sabit Ariyo Olagoke has urged parents to ensure proper upbringing of their wards as a way to address the current insecurity challenges in the country. Professor Olagoke who is the Ajagun ein ( Religion warlord) of Oyo state in his Sallah message to felicitate Muslims on the successful completion of this year’s Ramadan fast also admonished adherents of Islam to imbibe and put into practice all the lessons learned during the Ramadan perood in their daily afairs The Islamic cleric pointed out that children are like the weapons in the hands of warriors giving lucky parents the strength of manhood/womanhood fulfilment with happiness and pride in the society. Parents he said ,are expected to work together on the physiological needs of the child’s for even growth and effective management of nature nurturing essence. He said this becomes imperative for the adolescent to have sound home training and can not to be bought over by the bad and poor influence of the environment and the home will have peace with assured development for posterity, adding that the school must complement the home efforts in child-rearing. “When there is peace at home the society fares better. Bad children shame a nation while good children promote peace and development”, he said. Prof. Olagoke noted that Nigeria today is experiencing institutional indiscipline with the consequence of resulting insecurity; violence and destruction amidst the general breakdown of all agents of socialization hence the need forrestoration of our core values by the traditional leaders, religious leaders and educational institutions. He said Government must live by Justice, Equity policies that anchor on having respect for the fundamental human rights of the people to promote the culture of fear of God in attending to responsibilities and live by ethics for an exemplary lifestyle that is bequeathable as a legacy blue print for the younger generation to follow. POLL “Government needs to fund as appropriate, education and Health sectors ,create jobs and provide loans for job creators , he said while urging the federal government to nip the issue of insecurity in the bud before the 2023 elections .