A coaltion of the Southern Kaduna peace advocacy group has passed a vote of confidence on the Commander of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and all the troops of the internal security outfit in Southern Kaduna and Plateau State. The group operating under the aegis of Southern Kaduna Peace Practitioners (SOKIPEP) also bemoaned a statement released earlier by the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) claiming to have passed a vote of no confidence in the leadership of the OPSH’s Commander. SOKIPEP, in a statement, on Monday morning, released by its National President, Rev. Dauda Fadia, described the purported no confidence vote by SOKAPU, a rival group, as not the position of the people of Southern Kaduna but a few selfish war mongers aiding and abating criminality in the state. It regretted that SOKAPU, formed as a socio-culttural association of the peace loving people of Southern Kaduna by eminent indigenes of the area has been hijacked for self-aggrandizement by some few persons not known to Southern Kaduna. Labelling the handlers of SOKAPU as merchants of crises, SOKIPEP asked the OPSH’s Commander not to give attention to the group. It also called on him not to be distracted by the action of a few working to keep their business of organising crimes afloat. “The purported statement from SOKAPU is not the position of the good people of Southern Kaduna, rather a position of a few individuals unknown to our area. The handlers of this group have been known for their deep involvement in aiding and abating crises in our area. “As a peace advocacy group, SOKIPEP passes a vote of confidence in the leadership of Operation Safe Haven and all the troops of the internal security outfit for their tireless and professional efforts to keep the people of Southern Kaduna and Plateau State safe,”the statement by Rev. Dauda Fadia added. According to SOKIPEP, “The call for the deployment of the OPSH Commander by SOKAPU is not only selfish but also the desperation of crisis promoters. POLL “The position of SOKAPU goes to show that the group is not in touch with the community it claims to represent. This is very sad! If they were, they would have naturally known all the efforts of the military outfit in Southern Kaduna,” the statement added. Rev. Fadia said, “I think what a reasonable group should be doing is to commend the tireless efforts of Operation Safe Haven and appeal to the military high command for more deployment of personnel to the area and not condemnation.” SOKIPEP recalled with regret, “Recently, during the cause of defending the Southern Kaduna communities, two military men lost their lives.” The troops, SOKIPEP noted, died while repelling attacks from invaders in Kagoro, kaduna State even as it said many of the attackers met their waterloo in the hands of the OPSH men. “About two days ago, another soldier was killed after killing several of the bandits who attacked a community in Bassa Local Government of Plateau State. How can you pass a vote of no confidence on OPSH when as a matter of fact, Southern Kaduna would have been a shadow of itself if not for the operation? “The group fumed.