 — As Party Postpones Screening Exercise ABUJA – Seven All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirants from the South-East geopolitical zone have agreed to support and align with any of them that secured the party’s nod to fly its flag in the 2023 presidential election. -Advertisement- The pact signed by the Aspirants was part of an effort by the APC presidential aspirants to have a united front as the party screens all presidential Aspirants Monday for the May 29/30 special Convention. The development came as the All Progressives Congress APC announced the postponement of the presidential screening exercise earlier fixed for Friday. Barrister Felix Morka, National Publicity Secretary of the party did not give a reason for the shift of the presidential screening exercise but said a new date would be announced. Rising from a meeting held today the 22″ of May, 2022 at the residence of Senator Rochas Okorocha and held under the chairmanship of Chief Ogbonnaya Onu, the Aspirants agree to back anyone of them that may be picked to fly the ticket of of the party. Those who signed the pact include Ogbonnaya Onu Chief MolukwuSen. Ken. Nnamani, Barr Mrs Uju Ken Ohanenye, Governor Dave Umahi,Hon.Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba and Sen. Rochas Okorocha POLL A statement jointly sighed by the Politicians reads: “That the President of the federal republic of Nigeria and the All Progressive Congress and Its National Working Committee as well the teaming members of the party are commended by the entire people of the southeast on their avowed commitment to the unity of Nigeria and the inclusion of all parts of Nigeria In the governance architecture of the country. “That we commend all Nigerians who are committed to the Nigerian project by the whole hearted support of the aspiration of the south east to produce the next Nigerian president in 2023. ” That in furtherance of these commitment all aspirants here commits to align with any of the south east aspirants that is accepted by and chosen by other Nigerians to fly the APC flag”.