Ahead of the May 30-31, 2022 presidential primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a chieftain of the party and leader of the Middlebelt Presidency agitations, Moses Ayom, has cautioned other aspirants against unguarded comments on the Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC). In an interview in Abuja, at the facility he recently donated to the APC presidential campaigns, Ayom reminded all aspirants and members of the party that has taken off smoothly and have become committed to conducting free, fair and credible presidential primaries, the NWC deserved utmost loyalty, trust and support from all aspirants. With a particular reference to comments attributed to a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, that the former Lagos Governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu had other options should he be denied the ticket, Ayom said such comments are grossly unfair to the NWC. -Advertisement- He said Babachir’s disclosure that Tinubu had option B if he loses is not a good comment from the former SGF at all. The APC chieftain drew attention to the fact that it was the credibility of the Adamu-led NWC that made President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire National Executive Committee (NEC) to transfer their powers to it for 90 days. He said: “Right now, the NWC is the leadership of the APC and it should be given all kinds of support to succeed. “The idea of indirectly threatening the NWC that Tinubu has another option if he is not given ticket should not arise at all. As a committed APC leader from the Middlebelt, I call on Babachir to withdraw the comments and apologise to the party immediately.” Ayom however said he has known Tinubu since the days of Iyorchia Ayu’ s Senate Presidency when he (Tinubu) served as the Chairman of Finance, Appropriations, Banking and Currency of the then Senate. POLL He said that Tinubu has all it takes to rule this country because he has paid his dues as a leader of the party. Ayom, however, disclosed that the presidential aspiration of former Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, enjoys the support of the Middlebelt because he served in Benue state, Kataina Ala to be precise and since then, he had remained committed to the course of the Middlebelt. He also praise Amosun for the supportive  roles he had played in the efforts by the Buhari administration to diversify the revenue base of the economy. Ayom recalled the participation of Amosun in the 2016 Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) signed between Nigeria and China, adding that Amosun’s commitment to the revival of Nigeria’s economy made him to be part of the delegation to China for those deals to be struck. Ayom disclosed that as far back as April 12, 2016, he was privileged to be in a presidential business trip led by President Muhammadu Buhari to China with Amosun, the CBN Governor,  late elderstatesman, Ismaila Isa Funtua alongside with Aliko Dangote, adding, It was president Xi JINPING of china that invited President Buhari to China for that MOU. Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State was also present at the signing of the agreement. The trip was what produced the three great MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) one of which was the Dangote Fertilizer plant (second largest in the World)  that was recently commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari in Lagos. He said that with the kind of commitment already displayed by Amosun since he was part of this agreement, “we are certain that this will be one of his first priorities when he is sworn in as President on the 29th of May, 2023. “We are also confident that Amosun will hand over to the Middlebelt at the end of his tenure as President.” He also called on the people of Benue State to rally round a former governor of the state, Senator George Akume, in his quest to boost the development of the state. Ayom recalled that it was Akume that God used to install the past two governors of Benue, Gabriel Suswam and Samuel Orthom.