IBADAN – Towards making his ambition a reality, a leading Oyo South Senatorial hopeful under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Olooye Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke, has continued his interaction with party stakeholders, leaders and other gladiators. Some of the party members he has met includes party executives, which were chairmen, secretaries, youth and women leaders in the nine local governments that make up the senatorial district. During his interaction with his teeming supporters, party members and executives at NIHORT area, Ibadan, the Oyo state capital, Adegoke, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), and business turn around expert promised to invest in the youth and infrastructural development in the senatorial district and the state as whole because they are the greatest asset and treasure of the nation, which is valuable more than oil, gold and silver. -Advertisement- Adegoke, an alumni member of both OAU Ife and University of Cambridge Judge Business School Advance Leadership Program said by doing this, Oyo south will attain a position of best district in Nigeria. The local governments are Ibadan North, Ibadan North East, Ibadan North West, Ibadan South East, Ibadan South West, Ibarapa Central, Ibarapa East, Ibarapa North and Ido Local Government Areas. Adegoke, who is also the Chairman of Solutions 93.9FM and Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland while soliciting the support of the party secretaries, women leader and youth leaders in the nine local government, he appealed to them that the unity among every party members, leaders, stakeholders are key in achieving the victory in 2023 elections. A philanthropist per excellence maintained that his aspiration is borne out of service to the people of the senatorial district and the state as whole, noting that with their support, if giving the ticket and eventually emerge victorious to represent Oyo South at the red chamber, he will attracted several infrastructural development into the district that will make it the best in Ngeria. According to him, “We have the key to unlock the prosperity of our dear senatorial district and this key is a knowledge economy driven by vocational training, empowerment and innovation for youths, women and other people of the district. POLL “This is so because no nation has ever become truly great, whether in ancient or modern times without the efficient and effective deployment of training, manpower and innovation to its development. “It is by doing that we can create wealth and enough jobs for our people, fight and defeat poverty, create wealth and prosperity for nation for our senatorial district, the state and the country at large. “We must emphasize those things that unite us more than those that divide us. We must as a district to start thinking big because we are big. “Oyo south is the nucleus of Oyo state and it is germane to emergence of state governance, I am competent enough to represent the district at the red chamber and offer to improve the fortune of the district and the state as whole. “As an experienced, passionate and patriotic son of the soil from Ibadan South West, I am well equipped with all it takes to turn things around as desired. Oyo south deserves better representation than what we are getting presently, I will make Oyo south the best senatorial district in terms of youth, women and infrastructural development. “I want to enjoin you all to remain steadfast, remain committed to this course and party, so that at the end of the day, victory shall be ours”.