EJIKEME OMENAZU For a long time now, the church auditoriums in Nigeria and indeed elsewhere are bombarded with what has come to be known as the prosperity gospel. Ministers of the gospel, especially those of the Pentecostal breed, have continued to preach this popular gospel, which is so alluring to the ears of the poor. -Advertisement- This, coupled with the flamboyant lifestyle of some of the gospel ministers who preach it, and testimonies of breakthroughs after listening to such pastors, seem to draw a lot of crowd to churches and prayer houses. But, the question in the lips of many Nigerians, Christians and non-Christians alike is: To what extent has the prosperity gospel positively affected the church? What negative impact has it on the church? A top cleric, Rev Dr Frank Freds Nwosu, President, Elim-Africa Mission Inc., while looking at the ‘positive benefits of the prosperity gospel to the Christian church, stated: “I must acknowledge, in spite of myself and preferred doctrinaire, that the prosperity gospel has positively affected the first Christian church in some way. First, there were Christians who used to battle with inferiority complexes prior to the advent of the prosperity foray. But, the doctrinal shift to prosperity healed their minds. “Secondly, there are still saved and sanctified folks still living in abject poverty. The prosperity gospel is not only valid for them, but also necessary. This is very biblical, scriptural, and spiritual. “It happened in the Bible that there were poor saints, prophets that they encountered in those days did not focus only on their holiness, but addressed their economic well-being. POLL “For instance, Prophet Elisha enriched the woman of Zarephath overnight. Meanwhile, that widow’s late husband was a holy man, rated as even a ‘man of God’. Yet, he had died penniless and heavily indebted because he did not have the privilege of encountering the prosperity gospellers of his own days. “It seems very important to emphasise that God graciously provides a shift in doctrinal direction for the relief of his people, whenever the pains of existence grow unbearable.” Discussing the negative impacts of prosperity gospel, Rev Nwosu said that for a reasonable length of time, he had not failed to express reservations about the antics of crude operators of religious organisations that are talking advantage of the prevalent frustrations to defraud ignorant people. Rev Nwosu asked rhetorically: ‘Who should be blamed?’ he responded: “It is a only a negative feedback we are getting on the side-effects of the prosperity gospel twist. “The main underlying current that is capable of causing a spiritual tsunami is the subliminal message it is passing to the present generation: that someone can get miracle money without working, that it is necessary to be rich as a sign of divine approval, and that wealth is an indication of righteousness…or even that ‘poverty is a sin’, as some whacky preachers have the guts to claim. “These issues are very knotty, enough to dislodge authentic Christian creeds from the consciousness of believers, thereby turning devotees to customers of religious organisations. The devil is in the details.” Rev Dr Rexkennedy Saltlove of Revival Assembly (the New Anointing Church), Ogba, Lagos, in response maintained that God is a God of prosperity and clearly told His children who serve Him in 3 John 1:2: “Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.” He stressed that the prosperity gospel has helped the church to make more impact in the world. Dr. Saltlove, Founder, Rexkennedy Saltlove Apostolic Mandate, explained that such impacts are through: Salvation, by being able to reach humanity in various areas of life, tribes and race; ideal places of worship and builds sound educational system to the extent that the two leading private universities in Nigeria which are church-owned, have been named among the top 400 in the world in 2022 by the highly reliable and trusted Times Higher Education Impact Rankings. These institutions are the Afe Babalola University and Covenant University. He stressed that the prosperity message has helped the church to contribute meaningfully to the society, through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). However, Dr Saltlove stated that like any coin, the issue of prosperity gospel has two sides, the positive and negative. According to him, the negative part of the prosperity gospel is well captured in Revelations 3:16-17, which says, “But since you are like lukewarm water, neither hot nor cold. I will spit you out of my mouth! You say, ‘I am rich. I have everything I want. I don’t need a thing!’ And you don’t realise that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked.” Thus, he stated, “Prosperity gospel has brought in spiritual lukewarmness into the church. Materialism is promoted higher than godly living. Moral values are sacrificed in place of wealth acquisition. Carnality is rampant. “Prosperity message has made preaching by many no longer balanced and thus watered down Christian virtues. Prosperity message has set a wrong yardstick for spiritual maturity.” He concluded by quoting 1 Timothy 6:9, which says, “Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.” Inhiscontribution, RevDrAndrews Okhirebhu, the Senior Pastor, Wordhedge International Assembly, Lagos, said, “Well, it is good to know what exactly is the meaning of prosperity from both of the scriptures and man’s definition. And again understanding the source means, how and intent of prosperity is seriously important. “Because, humanly and socially, we see prosperity from majoring in money and material aspects of life. And how we get them achieved and owned is by ‘everything goes’, inhuman and devilishly wisdom. “That means, we have to coerce, kill, fight, oppress people, lie, and manipulate to create undue impressions in the society. That this is becoming a trend in the most alarming proportion is of great concern. “However, a true preacher of the gospel of good news of the kingdom understands that the earth is the Lord’s and its wealth, richness, and prosperity are in store and reserved for man’s exploitation in fulfilling the intended and needed purposes of God on the present earth, and that ultimately, for full enjoyment of humanity to serving the giver of the prosperity.” He stressed: “In biblical economy, God gives power to get wealth (Deuteronomy 8:18); God gives all things to enjoy (1 Timothy 6:17); Prosperity or wealth answers all things (Ecclesiastes 7:12, Ecclesiastes 10:19); Through prosperity or wealth the gospel was prophetically intended to spread globally (Zechariah 1:17); It is structurally a wish that the Christian faithful prosper and be in good health (3 John 2, John 10:10), and the power or blessing of God makes prosperity without sorrow (Proverbs 10:18). Rev Okhirebhu posited: “The Christians ought to be the custodians of prosperity as tools for Christ’s government expansion. So, understanding this has helped the Church in its present commanding position in the economic space, which is undaunted across nations. “Let this remain planted in the mind that there is nothing in creation by God that is of itself bad and evil; all that He created were very good, and all created for his pleasure, design and eternal purpose. “The only challenge and the negatives are always when the same are in the very extremely use. Anything taken out of its borderlines is an abuse and such will unavoidably result in catastrophically effects and contagious cancers with the system. “The most aspect of its devastating height is when it is taken as norm, standard and acceptable tradition, against the reality. “The obviously negative impact of the prosperity gospel is taken and accepting it as the end as against the means to an end which truly it is.” Concluding, Rev Okhirebhu stressed: “Let us not sincerely forget that the preaching of the prosperity gospel in scriptural economy is two-sided; first the fruitfulness or prosperity of a man’s soul in union with God 3 John 2, 2 Corinthians 5:17. “Secondly, all the general well being and successful satisfaction of earthly fulfillment and enjoyment of all things as daily provided by God are to meet all needs.” Rev. Dr. Francis Ujunwa Simeon, Senior Pastor, Bible Wisdom Ministries International, on his own, stated: “The expression ‘Prosperity Gospel’ is a pejorative term used by the cynical press to describe the message of gospel preachers who believe and teach that the financial blessing and physical wellbeing of the believers in Christ are God’s will. “Truly, the New Testament teaches that Jesus Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the Law, having been made a curse for us so that the blessings of Abraham will come upon the believers through Jesus Christ (Gal.3: 13 – 14). The curse of the Law is summarised as spiritual death, sicknesses, diseases, and poverty. “Consequently, believers in Christ are said to be entitled to eternal life, good health and prosperity in the form of financial and material blessings. “However, this divine promise of prosperity is believed to be activated through generous offerings, payment of tithes, seed-sowing and diverse financial and material support for the work of God. Some of the relevant scriptures include Mal.3: 9- 10; Prov.3:9- 10; Lk.6: 38; 3 Jn. 2). “The doctrine of the prosperity of the total man (spirit, soul and body) is not the invention of prosperity preachers. It has always been in the Bible. “But, the faith movement of the 1950s which believed that whatever God promised in the Bible could be realised through faith, discovered it. “That gave birth to believing God for spiritual endowments, healing and divine health and financial prosperity. “As people started believing God for prosperity, God confirmed it by releasing great financial and material blessings into the Church and her members. “The Church, especially the Pentecostal branch that was abjectly poor, witnessed great enlargement. World evangelization and discipleship became more intensive and extensive because money gives wings to the Gospel and the work of God generally. “The result was a bumper harvest of souls into the kingdom of God. Missionary activities have penetrated into all the nooks and crannies of world because of the availability of funds. “On the flipside, some of the prosperity preachers have caused problems for the Church. Too much emphasis on the prosperity gospel to the neglect of the core and fundamental aspects of Gospel such as new birth, holiness, integrity, contentment, heaven-mindedness and fear of God, has led to greed, materialism and worldliness in the Church.