The Senator who represented Ebonyi Central Senatorial District between 2011 to 2015, Sen. Paulinus Igwe Nwagu has said if elected Governor of Ebonyi State in 2023, he would tackle head-on, the rising poverty, communal clashes and insecurity currently bedevilling the state. Nwagu, who stated this on Sunday while officially declaring his intention to run for the governorship of the state, disclosed that he had bought his gubernatorial forms, screened and cleared to stand for the governorship primary election of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the State. The governorship hopeful said he would leverage Ebonyi Markets, human resources and innovations to make the state the industrial hub of South East. “It is possible to bring to an end communal clashes amongst villages in the state and place the State on a path of progressive development and this is why today, I have come to announce to the industrious people of Ebonyi State that has been subjected to untold hardship that the alternative of rescue and restoration mission will be provided under me, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party as the Governor of Ebonyi State in 2023”, Nwagu said. He added, “one of my priorities as your Governor if elected, is to reform civil service. As the engine room of government, the administration of the civil service will be structured to the target international labour laws. Salaries, pensions, and gratuities will be given a first-line charge. Nobody will again shortchange those qualified for the promotion and leave allowances. “Every civil servant will get what is due for him/her because wages are the reward of a labourer, I did it as a local government chairman which earned me an Enyiwauzor 1 of Ebonyi State NY NULGE.” “I quite understand the importance of small and medium-scale enterprise (SME) to an economy and realize the thriving economy, the human capital development index of such economy deserves serious attention. “Our administration shall empower Ebonyians to be self-reliant, our kind of empowerment will be a total departure from the political patronage and deceit which is that we currently have. Our government will embark on massive industrialization of the State and ensure that at least one/two production and processing industry is sited per Senatorial zone. POLL “Our target is to leverage our human and natural resources on the industrialization of the State. The Revitalization of both Uburu and Okposi salt lake, limestone and mineral deposits in various areas of the Ebonyi State will speedily increase the IGR of the State, the invention of a cottage industry in Abakaliki, Afikpo and Orueke will provide over 2,00 direct and 500 indirect jobs. A cassava, palm, Cashew and mango processing plant in Izzi, Ivo, Onicha, Ezza North, Ohaozara, Edda and Akaeze will provide 5,000 direct and 10,000 indirect jobs,” he said. He promised to revive the Nklaliki poultry farm and pipe factory built by the administration of Governor Martin Elechi which he said, he has gone into comatose under Governor David Umahi’s administration. Nwagu further said his administration would overhaul the health and education sectors of the State if elected Governor in 2023. He called on the stakeholders of the PDP and the delegates in the upcoming governorship primary of the party to nominate him to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 governorship election in Ebonyi State.