As Muslims celebrate Eid-el-Fitr, which marks the end of the Ramadan fasting, the Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo-Olu on Education, Tokunbo Wahab, has congratulated them for successfully completing a whole month of the fasting period. Wahab commended them for observing all the rites associated with fasting, noting that God would reward their perseverance, tolerance, inconveniences and self-deprivation in the cause of Allah. He urged them to use the occasion of the Eid-el-Fitr celebration to pray for the unity of the country, mutual love and peaceful transition in the current democratic dispensation. The Special Adviser, who also urged Nigerians to come together and use the advantage of their diversity to build a united and stronger country that will be the pride of Africa, said that there is always strength in unity. He urged political gladiators across party lines to work together for the peace of the country while urging them to always ensure that elections are peacefully conducted to strengthen the nation’s democracy for the progress of the country. “As we are moving towards another phase in our democratic experience, I urge all politicians to always place the unity of the country above any other considerations and play by the rules of the game. It is our country and nobody will come and build it for us. “We should always be conscious of the vital position that Nigeria occupies among other African countries, we should show leadership by example through peaceful electoral processes and mutual love for one another,” Wahab said. On the two newly established state universities by the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration, the Special Adviser noted that their establishment would give youths in the state more access to varsity education. POLL He revealed that the limited carrying capacity of the nation’s citadel of knowledge has remained a major obstacle to achieving the university education dream in the country, noting that the vision of establishing two universities at the same time will be a legacy that Governor Sanwo Olu would forever be remembered for. The Special Adviser, who said he was pleased to identify with Muslims in the celebration, prayed to the Almighty Allah to accept their fasting as an act of Ibadah while forgiving them for their sins.