P/HARCOURT – A high level conspiracy by some Southern governors on the plat­form of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been identified as the major reason why the party’s presidential ticket could not come to the Southern part of the country as clearly envisaged by Nigerians. Making this revelation on Mon­day, the Rivers State governor, Nye­som Wike, said some governors ganged up with some vested interest groups to derail the quest of South­ern Nigeria to produce the next pres­ident of the country. Wike said it was the agreement of the governors of Southern Nigeria that the presidency should come to the South, and he did not betray that agreement. -Advertisement- The Rivers State governor made the explanation at a grand reception organised by Rivers people on Monday in Port Harcourt to welcome him back from Abuja after the PDP presidential primary. Governor Wike described as shameful the inability of some of those who were part of the agreement to stick to the agreement when it mat­tered. He accused them of selling out, and frustrated the collec­tive efforts that would have secured the PDP presidential ticket by him for the South. “I contested in an election (primary) based on the prin­ciple and agreement with all Southern governors and lead­ers of the South that presiden­cy should go to the South this period. “We have done our part. We never betrayed anybody because it is not in our blood to betray. But it is a shame to those people, some of the gov­ernors from the South, they are the people that were used to sabotage our course.” POLL Governor Wike said it was disheartening that some gov­ernors from the South due to their inordinate ambition could jettison the collective in­terest of the people they claim to represent. “Look at a region ganged up, then you, your own region cannot gang up. You became tools to be used against the interest of your people, and you think you have won, you have lost. You will continue to be perpetual slaves. Rivers people you don’t need to both­er yourselves. PDP needs us. If they say they don’t need us, they should wait.” The governor explained that he was propelled into the race to offer service and advance the interest of Nige­ria. In the process, he said, he was confronted by a few in­dividuals who wanted some­body they will control and he declined to be such puppet. “The winner (of the ticket) also saw it. They underrated us, but now, they will not un­derrate us again. We have all it takes to do whatever we want to do. It is a matter of you being firm, it is a matter of you being hopeful. There is nobody that is born greater than us in this country, there­fore, we cannot answer second class citizen. We can’t. “We just use this one to tell them that enough is enough. We made them not to sleep. We made them not to eat. We made all of them from wher­ever they said they come from to know that there is some­body who can take them on. This country does not belong to one particular zone. If peo­ple are afraid of talking it is their business. I cannot be a second class citizen in my country. “Some of them, their in-laws are governors in the ruling party, but they want to interfere in what happens in PDP. Some of them their brothers are governors in the ruling party and they want to interfere in PDP”. Governor Wike said with the presidential primary over, and given his pledge to work for whoever emerged, Rivers State will work to deliver PDP and all its candidates in the 2023 general election. The governor recalled that in 2019, despite failure of the candidate he supported to clinch the ticket, Rivers State gave PDP massive votes and refused to negotiate with the All Progressives Congress (PDP) to give them 25 percent votes. “In 2019, I was the only governor from the South- South who never negotiated with the present government. They came, I said no, I was not going to be party to that. And that is why APC never had 25 percent in this state (Rivers). But, all the other states in the South-South, the president got 35 percent to 40 percent. I said I was not going to sit down with them and negoti­ate.” Governor Wike said he has even told the winner of the PDP presidential prima­ry, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, that most of those hanging around him do not have elec­toral value. He pointed out it would be imperative on such people from those states, whether in the North or South, to deliver the kind of votes that Rivers State will deliver in the 2023 general election in order for PDP to win the presidency. Governor Wike said it was wrong for the party to have al­lowed the governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, to speak for a second time after the time allotted to each of the aspirants to address the delegates. Speaker, Rivers State House of Assembly, Ikuinyi-Owaji Ibani, in his remarks, de­scribed the governor as an emancipator, who has solved a particular nagging problem in Nigeria, that’s the issue of minority question. Chairman, PDP Rivers State, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, commended Gover­nor Wike for his resilience and that the entire Rivers State and the Niger Delta are happy that he spoke for them. Speaking on behalf of Rivers elders, former presi­dent, Nigerian Bar Associ­ation (NBA), Onueze O.C.J Okocha (SAN), observed that Governor Wike contested the PDP presidential primary because he was motivated by his desire to serve the country and bring back PDP to gover­nance in Nigeria. “You have done us proud. You’ve done Rivers State proud. You’ve done the coun­try, the teeming masses of those who are yearning for capable leadership, you’ve done them proud. And they will continue to believe in you, they will continue to place their hope in you”, he said. Chairman of Ikwerre Local Government, Hon. Samuel Nwanosike, while speaking on behalf of Riv­ers’ youths, said Governor Wike has demonstrated that Rivers State and indeed, the Niger Delta, cannot be under­rated in the political equation Nigeria. “A Rivers man has dared and shook the foundation of Nigeria. You have given them restless night. You have made them change their po­litical equation night upon night. You have made them in Abuja and the entire northern, southern, western, all parts Nigeria realise that a leader has emerged from Rivers State and a leader has emerged from Niger Delta.” The chairman of Port Har­court Council, Hon. Allwell Ihunda and Dr. Juliet Ber­wari, who spoke on behalf of all the council chairmen and women, respectively, said Governor Wike has shown ca­pacity despite the conspiracy against him.