The Lagos State Government, through the Local Government Staff Pensions Board, has organised a special welfare programme aimed at encouraging retirees to interact and acquire relevant information on issues relating to pension matters, just as it reiterated its commitment to the welfare of pensioners across the State. In her opening remarks at the event held simultaneously in the five divisions of the State on Thursday, the Permanent Secretary, Local Government, Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Kikelomo Bolarinwa, noted that pensioners are considered very important stakeholders in Lagos as their work and contributions during their active years of service laid a formidable foundation for the current development. Her words: “The present administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has remained committed to the welfare of pensioners by ensuring frequent and regular payment of their retirement entitlements as the State Government continues to prioritise pension contribution in its yearly State Budget”. -Advertisement- Mrs. Bolarinwa added that the Special Welfare Programme is novel and urged the pensioners to use the opportunity to relate with each other and be up to speed on happenings on matters relating to the well-being and welfare of Lagos pensioners. On his part, the Chairman, Local Government Service Commission, Mr. Kamal Abiodun Baiyewu, commended the Local Government Staff Pensions Board for the initiative, stating that in spite of the numerous challenges in the country, the Lagos State Government continues to fulfil its obligations towards pensioners. “This Special Welfare Programme allows pensioners to meet with their peers, network and also benefit from all the planned activities including free medical checks and tests available by the State Government”, he said. In her remarks, the Executive Secretary/Director (Pensions) Local Government Staff Pensions Board, Mrs. Adeteju Alao, stated that more pensioners are expected to benefit from the programme as it would henceforth be an annual event in the Board’s Calendar.