***Urge Benue Government To Appeal High Court Judgement ABUJA – The family of late Ochanya Ogbanje, and Civil Society Organizations have asked the Benue State government to appeal against the judgement acquitting the prime suspect, Andrew Ogbuja Ochanya was teenager and a JSS1 pupil of the Federal Government Girls College Gboko in Benue State who died of rape ailments in 2018. -Advertisement- Justice Augustine Ityonyiman of  Makurdi high court while delivering judgement last Thursday discharged and acquitted the prime suspect Andrew Ogbuja a lecturer at the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo. Meanwhile another judge of the Federal High Court in Makurdi, Mobolaji Olajunwo, the same day convicted Mr Ogbuja’s wife, Felicia Ochiga-Ogbuja of negligence in the sexual assault of the minor. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Thursday Ogbanje’ brother, John Ameh, called on Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom to issue a fiat to private legal practitioners to file an appeal within the stipulated 90Days with the view of  setting aside the judgment of Makurdi high court. Ameh commended the Governor for the prosecution of the case and resisting political pressure. Ameh said” Governor Ortom must see to the end of this legal battle. We urge him to give fiat (permission) to a private legal practitioner of note, to take up the process of filing an appeal to challenge Mr Ogbuja’s acquittal. POLL “We appeal to the Governor not to allow the 90-day window of appeal to lapse, as ‘history has its eyes on him”. He described the judgement as dark day for anti-sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) campaigners across Nigeria. Also speaking at the event the Founder Men Against Rape, Lemmy Ughegbe condemned the decision of the trial judge for his refusal to consider a video recording of the deceased teenager which was admitted in evidence before the court. He also faulted the judge for not considering the findings of the autopsy report from the Nigerian Police forensic laboratory in Lagos. According to Lemmy ” The duty of the judge is to evaluate the veracity of al documents brought before him and decide which one tallies with the video evidence of Ochanya.  Not to do that is a miscarriage of justice, a travesty of justice and has sent us 50years back win our fight in protecting Nigerian girl child and women at large. “There are compelling grounds of appeal which includes; That the judge abdicated his responsibility in not evaluating corroborative evidence of the autopsy report from the Police Forensic Laboratory side by side with Ochanya video evidence. “Therefore the judgement is a miscarriage of justice and it is a good ground for Benue State government to authorize notice of appeal to be filed to give fiat to private legal practitioners “ On her own part the Chairperson of the FGGC Gboko alumni association Abuja Chapter, Dr. Ngozi Azodoh urged the Governor to act swiftly in the interest of justice and and not to allow the 90days window to elapse before filling the appeal.