The Ohananeze Ndigbo Worldwide has warned former President Goodluck Jonathan not to pitch the Ijaws against Ndigbo following the news making rounds that he has purchased the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination and expression of interest forms ahead of the 2023 presidential election. Daily Independent had on Monday reported that a group called Nomadic Pastoralists and the Almajiri Communities led by one Ibrahim Abdullahi picked up the N100 million forms on Jonathan’s behalf claiming they paid for them. Speaking with newsmen shortly after picking the forms, Abdullahi said they decided to purchase the forms for Jonathan to enable him to stage a comeback and continue with the good work he had started. -Advertisement- Reacting to the development, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization in a statement issued by its Secretary-General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, told Jonathan not to forget the sacrifices Ndigbo made for him in the past. According to the organization, “there is no going back to the 2023 Nigerian President of Igbo stock and anything contrary to it amounts to a denial of equity, fairness, and justice,” adding that the Ndigbo gave the former President the highest support while he held sway, which earned them the 5 per cent toggle from President Muhammadu Buhari. He said, “there are frantic endeavours and backstage activities to pitch Ijaws against Ndigbo, a repeat of 1966 gimmicks aimed at the resuscitating the age-long enmity between the two ethnic groups of old Eastern region, which was demolished in 2011 when Igbos adopted Jonathan as our own. “We expect Goodluck Jonathan as an elder statesman and African iconic personality to endorse an Igbo Presidency from the seven Igbo speaking States, including Anioma (in Delta) or Ikwerre (in Rivers). “He should not forget that the South-East and the Igbos were his citadels of support in 2011 and 2015. We became marginalized and were regarded as 5 per cent because of the support we gave Jonathan in 2015. POLL “This should be a payback time for the sacrifices we made for the Ijaws and Jonathan in particular”. He said though backstage power mongers were enthusiastic about the division of Igbos and Ijaws of the old Eastern region for the gain of the North, “their plot is dead on arrival.”