…Urge NWC To Face Its Internal Problems Former State Chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have tackled the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) for attacking the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele. The PDP had on Saturday demanded the immediate arrest, investigation, and prosecution of Mr. Emefiele by security and anti-graft agencies, particularly the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for alleged financial malfeasance and abuse of office in the CBN under his watch. -Advertisement- The party had also said that Emefiele’s involvement in politics without resigning as CBN Governor amounts to gross misconduct in contravention of Section 11 2 (2)(c) of the CBN Act. Reacting, the Forum of the former Chairmen regretted the position of the NWC members, adding that they were taken aback that the party leadership could decide to play to the gallery at this critical time when it’s meant to be focused on strategies to adopt to emerge victorious at all levels in the forthcoming elections. Condemning the party’s position, the Forum, in a statement by its Coordinator, Alhaji Adamu Musa, said that the statement credited to the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, on Emefiele, isdiversionary and childish. “We are taken aback that our great party’s leadership can decide to play to the gallery at this critical time when we are meant to be focused on strategies to adopt to emerge victorious at all levels in the forthcoming elections. “The PDP NWC, in sounding holier than thou, completely ignored the fact that Emefiele did not purchase the Expression of Interest and Nomination Form of the APC which is the crux of the matter here. Three different groups pulled resources together to purchase the form for him and as of now, there is no proof that he has collected the form. POLL “Thirdly, our party also feigned ignorance of a statement made by Emefiele wherein he stated unambiguously that although there are pressure on him to run, he has not taken a decision on it. “We are therefore tempted to ask the NWC of our great party the basis of which it unleashed such vituperation on the CBN Governor. “Since we are also not aware that our party held any NWC meeting between Friday and Saturday when that malicious statement was issued, we also want to believe that the content was the personal opinion of the author and not that of our party’s NWC. “In the unlikely event that the statement is the position of our party, we therefore condemn it in its entirety. “The statement, as far as we are concerned, is not only diversionary but also childish. It portrays us as a party that is already afraid of facing a particular candidate in the general election. “We urge our party to stop dissipating energy on happenings in a rival political party but reserve the same energy to plan for the general election so that we can emerge victorious.”