LAGOS  – The Acting Area Controller, Federal Operations Unit, Zone ‘A’ of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Hussein K. Ejibunu, has given a vivid narrative of how his unit intercepted and seized smuggled goods with a cumulative Duty Paid Value(DPV) of N533.16 million. He also disclosed that 12 suspected smugglers were arrested in connection with the seized goods. The Customs boss asserted that some of the seized items were imported/smuggled foreign par boiled rice, which he described as unfit for human consumption. -Advertisement- Ejibunu, a Deputy Comptroller (DC), revealed this in Lagos, during a press briefing. He gave a breakdown of smuggled goods intercepted and seized by the operatives of his Unit in the month of April as 55,800 litres of PMS, 73 bales of used clothes; 82 units of used fridges, 104 pieces of compressors, 143 bales of new textile; 1,264 pieces of used tyres, 156 cartons of frozen poultry, 7,960 pairs of new shoes, 240 pieces of ladies purse and 93 cartons of tin tomato. Others are two units of foreign used vehicles and 11 pieces of used rugs, with a cumulative Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N533,169,520. He that 12 suspected smugglers were arrested in connection with some of the seizures as well as alleged commission of various customs offences. He added that following series of diligent documentary checks on some initially cleared cargoes, Demand Notices (DN) were raised to the tune of N111,825,873.75, which was ultimately collected as revenue for the federal government. POLL Ejibunu noted further that sequel to the Federal Government’s policy that encourages local production of rice against the importation of foreign parboiled rice, his Unit seized 7,259 (of 50 kg each) bags of rice in the Month of April, 2022. He said the seizure was equivalent to over 12 truck-load of rice. He also revealed that sequel to laboratory test analysis on some of the previously seized foreign parboiled rice by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), one of the test parameters indicated some contents of lead (a soft heavy toxic malleable metallic element) in the tested rice; making it unfit for human consumption. “Consequent upon this laboratory analysis on the foreign parboiled rice; as a responsible government agency, we are letting Nigerians know that apart from the negative economic impact of importing foreign rice into the country, some of these imported rice are unhealthy for human consumption. “Thus, we advise consumers to desist from patronizing the federal government banned foreign parboiled rice. We as citizens have a collective responsibility to safeguard our economy and health for the benefit of all,” he said.