ABUJA –With President Mu­hammadu Buhari’s cabinet now deplet­ed over the resigna­tion of at least 10 of them, the President has disclosed plans to fill the vacant ministerial posi­tions. He hopes to do this in the shortest possible time as dis­closed by the Minister of Infor­mation and Culture, Lai Mo­hammed. The decision follows the res­ignation of at least 10 cabinet ministers who relinquished their positions to pursue their political ambitions for the 2023 general elections. -Advertisement- Buhari also performed a valedictory session for the for­mer ministers at the Council chambers, State House on Fri­day, where he thanked them for their contributions to the admin­istration and wished them well in their future endeavours. Mohammed, who briefed State House Correspondents of the latest development, said nine of the ministers were physical­ly present and one gave reasons for his absence at the valedictory session. The following outgoing mem­bers of FEC were present at the valedictory session: ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amae­chi; Niger Delta Affairs, God­swill Akpabio; Science, Technol­ogy and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu; State for Petroleum, Timi­pre Sylva; Labour and Employ­ment, Chris Ngige. Others are the Attorney-Gen­eral and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), Min­ister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Uche Ogah, the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen and the Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Tayo Alasoadura. The Minister of State (Edu­cation), Emeka Nwajiuba, who had earlier tendered his resig­nation, was not present at the valedictory session. POLL Clarifying the membership position of former President Goodluck Jonathan in the All Progressive Congress, the Infor­mation Minister said the chair­man of the party is in a better position to answer that question. The President also affirmed that a significant number of them have been sufficiently equipped to aspire to higher elec­tive offices, including the Office of the President. But barely a few hours after President Buhari performed a valedictory service to bid some members of his cabinet farewell over their political ambitions for 2023, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige has dropped his presidential aspi­rations. He took to a statement on Friday, to debunk insinuations that he had resigned his position as Minister of Labour, hinging his decision on wide consulta­tions from family members and friends. In the statement he person­ally signed and distributed to the media, he said, “On Tues­day, 19th April 2022, I publicly declared my interest to contest for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nige­ria, following the constitutional provision that precludes our amiable incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari from seeking re-election to the office, as he would have completed his two terms in office by 29th May 2023. The declaration was made in my home town, Alor, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State. “My declaration was sequel to pressure on me from my con­stituents, political associates, friends and other well-meaning Nigerians, who felt I possess the necessary qualifications and experience for the job. Some of these supporters even taxed themselves to procure the Ex­pression of Interest/ Nomina­tion Forms of our Party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) for me. The forms however are yet to be filled and submitted. “Today, 13th May 2022, I had an audience with the President, Muhammadu Buhari as a follow up to the one I earlier had with him on 11th May 2022. “Having also consulted wide­ly with my family, constituents, supporters and well-wishers, it is my pleasure to announce the withdrawal of my interest and earlier decision to contest the of­fice of the President in the 2023 general elections. “As a result of this, I will NOT be participating in any of the internal party processes of the said election, starting with the primary.”