The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State among other presidential aspirants did not agree to southwest consensus candidate ahead of the party’s primaries slated for May 31 and June 1. This followed the meeting held behind closed doors on Friday at the Lagos House, Marina by the southwest leaders of the party. During the meeting the leaders cautioned presidential aspirants from the zone to guard against their utterances, name-calling and other personal attacks most especially among their supporters should not be encouraged. -Advertisement- Daily Independent gathered that the aspirants were asked to work with whomever that emerges as the party’s candidate for the presidential election in order not to lose the opportunity to produce the President in 2023. According sources who spoke with the Punch said the issue of a consensus candidate was not listed as part of its agenda, but that it was stylishly introduced by one of the leaders. He said one of the speakers asked if the aspirants from the zone could still step down for one another if they realised that the zone would be defeated at the party’s presidential primary slated for the end of the month. But he said none of the aspirants in attendance responded as they were not ready to step down for the other. The source stated, “How do you ask someone who has paid N100m to step down? Step down for who? All the aspirants believe that they are popular and can win. POLL “Funnily enough, the issue of consensus was not listed in the agenda of the meeting. It was also not part of the text messages sent to us for the meeting. The meeting was majorly concerned about the utterances that are already portraying us as being divided and that the zone is behaving as if we have no leaders. “Yet, there are concerns that a large number of aspirants could put the zone in danger if we go into the primary like that. But nobody was asked to step down for the other.” The meeting was convened by the former interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande, and a former governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba. Present at the meeting were the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo; a former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; and the Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi. Also at the meeting were the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo; governors Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun and Oyetola of Osun states. Others include the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola; the APC National Secretary, Otunba Iyiola Omisore; a former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; a former Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Moses Adeyemo; and a former National Vice Chairman of the APC, South-West Zone, Chief Pius Akinyelure. However, three presidential aspirants from the South-West, Pastor Tunde Bakare, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole; and the Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Ajayi Boroffice, who have all purchased forms, were absent at the meeting. While commending Osinbajo, who is the highest-ranking public officer from the region, for a job well done, sources said the APC elders stated that all the aspirants had the right to aspire to be the President, but enjoined them to exhibit the ‘Omoluabi’ ethos in their politicking by shunning divisive rhetoric. While stating that consultation with them would be continuous, the meeting advised the aspirants to queue behind whoever among them eventually emerges as the party’s candidate, stating that the cohesion of the South-West must be sacrosanct. Akande said the presidential aspirants were united that the presidency should come to the South-West region. He stated, “We the APC are united and we will ensure that the presidency comes to our region, the South-West. We had a fruitful discussion at the meeting today (Friday). “We had a fruitful discussion. We also resolved that everybody should maintain absolute decorum because we are united.”