P/HARCOURT – South-South Reawakening Group, SSRG, has petition the management of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, on issues of the expenditures and contracts awarded by the current interim management headed by Dr. Efiong Akwa. The group said that the resignation of Godswill Akpabio to pursue his Presidential ambition has much to be desired when one looks at the level of sleaze that has taken place in the NDDC. Comrade Joseph Ambakaderimo , Convener of the group, in a statement sent to our correspondent in Port Harcourt, Rivers state, said the contraption of Interim Sole Administrator foisted on the commission was to use the resources of the commission to fund his Presidential ambition. -Advertisement- “The fund of the commission was readily available for Akpabio to be misappropriated and cornered for such purposes. “I get worried that the President allowed himself to be misdirected by the trio of Akpabio, Malam Abubakar Malami, and Prof Ibrahim Gambari. “President Muhammadu Buhari has almost extinguished his legacy of all the things he has achieved across the country safe for the Niger Delta region. Since the end of the forensic audit, what do we have, what we have is far much worse than the entire period covered by the audit”, he said. Ambakaderimo alleged that the President has done irreparable damage to the region. “We cannot fathom how an interim Sole Administrator will continue to superintend over a statutory body created by an act of the National Assembly for upward of three years running and the President will claim not to know the damage done to such an institution”. POLL He argued that almost N2triilion cannot be accounted for so far that has been expended by this interim sole administrator without a substantive board “further confirms the insensitivity of the President to issues bordering on the Niger Delta region”. He said: “a better percentage of the funds have been stolen, contracts are paid selectively, some have not been paid for upward of eight years, staff morale is at the lowest ebb, youth empowerment programs have been cornered to themselves, the few contracts awarded so far are awarded to themselves and cronies and these contracts do not conform with the public procurement Act. There is selective payment of the statutory twenty-five percent mobilization fees”. According to Ambakaderimo, “we have compiled a compendium of all actions carried out by this Sole Administrator and in addition to this compilation of a compendium, we are coming with a Freedom of information request to the NDDC to furnish the public with a list of projects awarded so far from the Prof Nelson Brambaifa illegal tenure to illegal Effiong Akwa tenure. “The issues we need full disclosure for; are payments made to contractors, the revenue inflow, the cumulative three percent statutory contribution from the oil and gas companies for the three years period under review, the number of contracts awarded and beneficiaries, the public tender issued for the period under review and so forth including full disclosure of the expenditure profile for the past three years. All of these will inform our request for Fol. “We are therefore, using this as a notice of information to Effiong Akwa and Godswill Akpabio that failure to respond within the seven days period allowed by law from the date of issuing the Fol will leave us with no option to seek a legal redress”. The SSRG convener said the latest announcement that certain categories of contracts issued are cancelled and that those who were paid mobilization fees should return such funds to the commission, saying that if confirmed that such directive was coming out of the NDDC, then “they should be prepared for litigations that will go without end and eclipse the commission perhaps this is the end game of some persons to see the end of the NDDC”. He noted that the decision reached was not well thought out and the decision reached for looks like a one man decision. “If not, why did Akwa not make mention of contractors who are being owed for about ten years and suddenly you have realized that there are jobs that are yet to be executed or completed and you now want to rely on the sections of agreement signed with contractors to surreptitiously cancelled contracts when there is also penalties for delayed payments of Interim payment certificates”. The activist wondered how many IPC’s Akwa paid so far or will he pretend not to know that contractors are being owed for upward of ten years. Akwa was the Technical adviser on financial matters to a Managing Director in the past. “There are so many cases of selective payment of mobilisation fees against the relevant sections of the public procurement Act that clearly defines payment of mobilization fees on federal government contracts that fifteen percent of contract sums should be paid to contractors upon presentation of a verifiable Advance Payment Guarantee from a bank. “As long as a bank or insurance company indemnifies a contractor payment of the fifteen percent should be reassd to the beneficiary contractor. “We know for sure that the public procurement Act has severally been abused in NDDC in the past and even now in this Effiong Akwa regime is worst in the history of the NDDC. “It is our considered opinion and also as an advice to the Effiong Akwa to rescind the decision of cancelling of contracts because it will not be a popular decision. “There will be myriads of litigation that can cripple the NDDC by the time the courts will begin to compel the NDDC to act in line with the necessary provisions of the public procurement Act to pay penalties for delayed contractors due payment”, Joseph Ambakaderimo said.