AKURE – Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate for Ondo Central Senatorial District, Bashorun Ifedayo Adedipe has appealed to his co-contestants in just concluded party’s primary in Akure, the Ondo State capital, to support him in the preparation for the general elections. Adedipe, who emerged winner of the Central Senatorial District primary of PDP on Monday, emphasised on the importance of the co-contestants in winning the 2023 general election. He said: “My sincere appreciation goes to my colleagues on this race; the Distinguished Senator Ayo Akinyelure and Engr. Clement Faboyede, for the very mature campaign they ran and for being true party men. -Advertisement- “I want to particularly thank them for their spirit of sportsmanship and faith in our great party. We are all brothers and compatriots in the very big PDP family. “I am not unaware that while the primaries are over, the real work still lies ahead. “I, therefore, call for the support of my co-contestants in the onerous task ahead. I enjoin my colleagues and our teaming party members and indeed the good people of Ondo Central Senatorial District, to please join hands with me in driving our party to victory in the general elections. “If we work together, we shall arrive our destination faster and in safety. Let us please do this together, so that we can continue to give hope to our people.” The senior advocate appreciated the leadership of the party for conducting a transparent and peaceful primary, adhering to tenets of democracy. POLL He promised giving the people of the district quality representation in the red chamber if eventually elected in the 2023 general election. Adedipe said: “I thank God Almighty for granting us the grace to see this day, and for bringing us to a successful conclusion of the Primary election to choose a candidate for the Central Senatorial District. “I want to sincerely thank all our party leaders and delegates for counting me worthy of their votes, and for the very transparent and peaceful manner in which the election went. “Once again, our party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has demonstrated its firm hold on the tenets of democracy and its seriousness to continue to represent the Central Senatorial District and eventually take over power in the State. “In the days ahead and after due consultation with party leaders and critical stakeholders, we will begin to put in place structures for the assignments ahead. “Let me again restate my commitment to providing a very good representation for our people, as clearly enunciated during my campaigns across the Senatorial District.”