AKURE – As Ondo State begins to ex­perience low criminal ac­tivities, the Commander of Amotekun Corps, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, has dis­closed that the success was recorded through inter-border fight against criminals. Adeleye said the Amotekun Corps, with all security agen­cies in Ondo State in collabo­ration with security agencies in Kogi and Edo states em­barked on full force combat against criminals who oper­ated in the border towns. He said that the military formations in the states as well as other security agen­cies worked hand-in-hand to make the states become un­comfortable for criminals. -Advertisement- The Amotekun Corps Com­mander said, “On the clean-up operation, the military in Kogi State partnered with the 32 Artillery Brigade in Akure and men of Amotekun Corps as well as the local hunters of all the villages around the bor­der towns and, to a very large extent, we were able to drive these criminals away. “We observed that these criminals come to Ondo State, strike and move back to Kogi State. The same thing also happen around Ose Lo­cal Government where they strike and move to Edo State through the river. “These criminals always take advantage of the fact that there are no Amotekun in Kogi and Edo, but that has since ceased now as the se­curity agencies in these two neighboring states are collab­orating with us. The last oper­ation we did, a couple of days ago, we were able to engage the criminals.” The Amotekun Corps Commander, who is also the Security adviser to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu gave a breakdown of criminal ac­tivities in the state in the last 10 months, saying crime rate has nosedived in the state. He said, “Across the board, we recorded very low crim­inal activities in the state. That is not to say that there were no pockets of violence here and there. Very recent­ly, in collaboration with the military, we launched a mas­sive attack on kidnappers in the four local governments in Akoko, Ose and Owo local governments and I must tell you that it actually yielded a good result. POLL “Comparatively, the last five months of last year and the first five months of this year, we had a very sharp de­crease in the number of sus­pects arrested. “Last year, on maintenance of law and order in the line of violators of open grazing law alone, we arrested close to 4,000, but this year, we have not arrested up to 1,000.