LAGOS  – As part of activities planned in line with her 10th anniversary commemoration LIFEPAGE in partnership with Business School Netherlands, organised a symposium with the theme: Wealth Creation Opportunities in the Nigerian Real Estate Sector. The symposium which held over the weekend at the civic centre, Victoria Island Lagos, had in attendance participants from all over the nation with industry experts from branding, financial, educational institutions and real estate businesses as guest speakers – who delivered various lectures with special highlights on Government Policies and Framework,Growth Strategies for Operators in the Sector, Brand Positioning and Promotions Investment Opportunities and Partnerships. Attracting Foreign Direct and funding, and Project Financing Options/Funding Structures – REITs, CPs, Bonds. -Advertisement- Mr. Oladipupo Clement, CEO LIFEPAGE/convener, who spoke with special focus on realtors, stated there are four primary ways to play in the real estate space – ranging from being a regulator, developer, investor to being a realtor. For him, being a realtor is the cheapest way to play in the industry as it requires connecting buyers to sellers. He alluded to the real estate industry report of 2020 by Agusto &CO which states that the Nigerian real estate industry as at two years ago in terms of size, is valued at $3.96trillion, which implies that without any financial contribution from realtors, connecting buyers to seller will yield them income without hassles – a system that has worked for brands in other markets like; Amazon, Nike and many more who play in other industries. LIFEPAGE as a business according to Mr. Clement has played successfully in the last 10 years both as an investor and a developer,adding that as a developer there are challenges it is tough to play in this market particularly due to fluctuating costs of project developments, inflation rates, among many others. There are several opportunities for making it big as a realtor in Nigeria, according the convener. POLL However, the referral method which requires little or no funding to get started with, remains the cheapest. This method is one everyone does without even knowing or being rewarded for and this is where we have played successfully as a business.