The Federal Government is set to conduct the National Agricultural Sample Census and the National Agricultural Sample Survey as recommended by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), this year. Ohioma Bishop, an Assistant Director, Head, Agric Statistic Division at the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), stated this while speaking with Daily Independent, stating that the census is supposed to be conducted every 10 years but for the last 28 or 29 years Nigeria has not conducted it. He also said that the survey was supposed to be every year but because of financial constraints it has not been done for the past seven to eight years. -Advertisement- “Through the help of the Federal Government of Nigeria and the support of the World Bank as well as the FAO the census is coming up this year. He added that it has two components. One is the listing exercise which is going to cover all the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. “In this case we are looking at 40 enumeration areas per local government and we are going to use the digitalized map by the National Population Commission (NPC) for us to get our enumeration areas. Ohioma said that the agency has conducted a sensitisation workshop in the North which was held in Keffi, Nasarawa state and in Asaba, Delta state. “We are hoping that the training of trainers will commence by the first or second week of June. The census will last for about 60 days after we are going to select farmers again, that is to look at the crop production in Nigeria and that is the second component of the census which we call the National Agricultural Sample Survey. POLL “That survey is supposed to be every year but because of financial constraints I don’t think we have done it for the past 7 to 8 years. With the census coming up this year, immediately we are done with the listing exercise we go into the sample survey component of the exercise. He added that the NBS is the Acting Agent, while the World Bank and FAO are the technical supporting team. “We are also collaborating with the federal ministry of agriculture, they are to work hand in hand with us as well as the NPC, they are the ones providing the enumeration areas that we need for this exercise and other stakeholders participating in this survey. On how to identify the real farmers, he said, “That is why we are going into the local governments. It is going to be household based, we are not covering corporate farms, we are going to the household level farmers and those Smallholder Farmers will be covered,” he said. Speaking further he said that the exercise will at the end positively affect the nation’s food security. “The problem we have in Nigeria for policy making is the problem of data, with what we have now we will look at the food security situation across all the LGAs within the State and we should be able to make recommendations to the government,” he added.