LAGOS – The National Working Committee (NWC) of the African Action Congress (AAC) has said that Mr Omoyele Sowore remains the party’s National Chairman and presidential aspirant until the next national convention and the 2023 general elections. The party said the clarification became necessary following some statements attributed to those it described as ‘misguided elements’, who it said had been allegedly sponsored by the current administration to spreading false news with the aim of smearing the image of the party and its leaders. A statement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Femi Adeyeye, made available to Sunday INDEPENDENT on Saturday, said the AAC was not oblivious of such plans, even as it understood that the renewed attack had been coming at this time because of a successful trip to the Niger Delta region where people trooped en mass to receive Sowore who visited his hometown after an unjust, cruel and inhumane restriction to Abuja for three years. -Advertisement- It added that on return to Abuja, AAC also submitted its authentic party membership register to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at its headquarters, which was duly acknowledged. The party stressed: “Setting the records straight, we wish to reiterate, for the umpteenth time, that these elements spreading fake news in the media are not members of our party. And the leader of this rogue squad was expelled as far back as May 13, 2019, after being found guilty of misappropriating party funds, gross sabotage, and numerous anti-party activities. “If these issues of corruption and abuse of office happened in the APC and PDP, the systems therein would probably have looked the other way. But, as a revolutionary party which aspires to genuinely win the people’s mandate to rescue Nigeria, we cannot keep a thief within the party leadership. “That would amount to sheer hypocrisy and a crime against the Nigerian people we swore to fight alongside with. A disciplinary committee was set up and he was afforded fair hearing. “The panel then found him guilty of the offenses levelled against him and recommended expulsion, which was ratified by the NWC. POLL “It should be clear that this rejoinder is not aimed at replying to a statement written by non-members parading themselves as party leaders. But, it is rather a piece to inform the public and members of the press about the situation in the party, which is stable and moving very fine.” The party stated that in what it termed a spurious statement published in one of the national dailies (not Independent titles) it was claimed that Sowore was expelled by a convention. “This is utter falsehood and in fact, criminal. You all can recall that Mr Omoyele Sowore was abducted by armed men of the State Security Service (SSS) in the night of  August 3, 2019 for calling on Nigerians to troop to the streets and protest hardship. “The expelled leader of the rogue squad, working on the orders of his paymasters then seized this opportunity to organise a kangaroo convention of aliens; forged names and got some elements within INEC to supervise such illegality. It is no surprise that this event was broadcast live on the National Television Authority (NTA). All these happened just six days after the abduction of Mr Omoyele Sowore. “Only those pretending to be asleep would deny that this is not a case of the hand of Esau, voice of Jacob. After losing on all fronts, the allegation of embezzlement of party funds they are trying to wrap around Sowore is the most ludicrous, as everyone who followed the 2019 electioneering can attest to the transparency of Sowore’s campaign fund raising which was mostly done on the popular live show dubbed ‘The Couch’. “As a matter of fact, most of these funds donated into Sowore’s campaign account, even went into funding many of the party activities.  We were also the only party whose candidate, i.e Sowore,  publis