The Abia State Commissioner of Trade and Investment, Hon. Cosmos Ndukwe has headed to the Court of Appeal to challenge the recent decision of Justice Donatus Okorowo of the Federal High Court Abuja, which declined to stop the May 28, presidential primaries of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Ndukwe had sued the PDP and Chairman of its Primary Election Planning Committee and National Secretary of the party, Senator Samuel Anyanwu and others at the Federal High Court in Abuja, praying that the primary election is stopped. He predicated his suit on the ground that the PDP allegedly refused to zone its presidential ticket for the 2023 presidential election to the South-East geo-political zone. Also, he was aggrieved following his disqualification from participating in the presidential primary election based on anti-party activity. Accompanying his originating summons marked FHC/ABJ/CS/508/2022, was an ex-parte application.By the ex parte motion, Ndukwe, a former Deputy Speaker in Abia State House of Assembly, had prayed for an order restraining PDP from going ahead with the primary election until his suit has been fully determined. However, ruling on the ex parte motion on April 28, Justice Donatus Okorowo refused Ndukwe’s prayer and instead ordered the PDP and other defendants to come and show cause on May 5, why the request of the applicant should not be granted. The ex-parte application was moved by Paul Erokoro SAN. Miffed by Justice Okorowo’s decision, the Primary Election Planning Committee Chairman, Senator Samuel Anyanwu has filed a notice of appeal at the Court of Appeal in Abuja praying that the order of Justice Okorowo is set aside. Apart from Ndukwe, other respondents in the appeal are the PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as 1st to 4th respondents, respectively. POLL The notice of appeal was filed by an Abuja based lawyer, Kalu Agu. Senator Anyanwu among other reliefs is contending that Justice Okorowo erred in law by denying him a fair hearing in breach of section 36 (1) of the 1999 Constitution. He stated that the originating summons of the plaintiff was not ripe for hearing. Similarly, the appellant said the time for him to file a counter-affidavit against the suit had not lapsed when the Judge gave the order. The appellant further averred that the court erred in law when it failed to averse its mind to the provision of Section 84 (15) of the Electoral Act 2022, before making the order to show cause. Anyanwu further asserted that the Judge erred in law for not directing the plaintiff to put him (Anyanwu) on notice but rather, directed him to show cause on an ex-parte application allegedly anchored on an incompetent originating summons. He, therefore, asked the Court of Appeal to void and set aside the order of the Federal High Court of April 28, asking him to show cause on why the primary election should not be stopped.No date has been fixed for hearing of the matter.