It has been widely report­ed that the foreign man­ager, Randy Waldrum is yet to arrive in the country, in spite of the fact that he’s been announced the coach of the Super Falcons with Salisu, who’s the CHAN Eagles head coach as his as­sistant. No doubt, whatever is holding the American coach back is all well and known to the federation. However, Salisu for now remains the coach for the female national team of Nigeria until other­wise. Salisu Yusuf, we all know his journey so far with FIFA and the Nigerian football federation, given his antecedents of bribery and corruption; which he had demonstrated in some time past and was caught red-handed for receiving a $1000 dollars bribe to feature players in matches. -Advertisement- He was subsequently sus­pended by FIFA and until he finished serving the punish­ment and his ban lifted, not the football federation nor the sports ministry did anything to reprimand Sal­isu over that offense. Recently when the fed­eration started shopping for coaches for all the cat­egories of the country’s national teams, the same Yusuf, no doubt resurfaced as the chief handler of the team “B” Super Eagles and also to serve as assistant coach to the Super Falcons. If you ask me, why? My an­swer will be that “Salisu Yu­suf” is a “covenant” coach with both the NFF and the sports ministry. He is one untouchable coach whom no one, irre­spective of status in Nige­ria’s football governance can deal with appropriately or can take his report of a mis­demeanor to higher author­ities and hopes to come out with positive results from the henchmen in today’s gov­ernment of Nigeria. Salisu Yusuf is so “spe­cial” in his capacity as a coach. He is too high on his white horse that nobody can ask him to come down, even though, he has been brand­ed by FIFA as corrupt! Who cares, for, in as much as this Salisu remains alive, hale and hearty, his bribery sin against the ethics of the pro­fession is of no consequence to the Nigerian football au­thorities! Little wonder, his employers shamelessly re-echoed his name for multiple assignments. My humble self begins to wonder if there are no oth­er local coaches from some other parts of the country to step into Salisu’s desig­nation. Is he the only quali­fied Nigerian coach to be in Super Falcons and the Su­per Eagles respectively to deliver, having known his negative background; not expected of a coach, and having learnt the rules and regulations of FIFA and the consequences thereof and decided to violate same? POLL It’s very unfortunate that the men in the Glasshouse in Abuja are mixing up cir­cular politics with football politics, which will never help the growth of football in the country. Everybody in the FA is playing dirty politics of eyes and lips ser­vice to achieve circular po­litical gains. Otherwise, not in any sane clime will the name “Salisu Yusuf” ever re-appear in any of the foot­ball teams’ appointments in the country, whether at the grassroots levels, and not even to mention the front­line national teams. Indeed, the NFF is a bunch of sycophants with nothing to offer Nigerians and the game the country loves so much with a tie or bond to one another, irrespective of tribe, religious differences, social and cultural back­grounds and political incli­nations. Now that the said female foreign coach is yet to arrive in Nigeria officially, Salisu it’s now over to you to han­dle your assignment with sincerity of purpose. I don’t even know how you’re going to comport yourself in such a man­ner that will give you some level of honour as a coach amongst these females, for he who must come to equi­ty must do so with a clean hand! The onus of taking the team above board is now rested on you for the good of the country. As there’s an adage that goes this way: “Once caught red-handed shy, twice caught a habit”. For me, you’re a good coach but when integ­rity is thrown into the mud, your reputation is smeared, no doubt; hence this con­temporary adage; “Anything worth doing at all, is worth doing well” will remain your essential part of the mantra as you carry on your desig­nations! And if the NFF so much believes in your competence, you must be up and doing this time around in your as­signments as a coach without sentiment and resentment division, fear, or favour, for players; you must eschew religious bigotry, tribalism, with total condemnation to bribe-taking or taking any­thing in return from players for personal gains. With all the aforemen­tioned, I am sure to have forearmed you; because temptations lurk around every now and then both in hotel rooms, outside the pitch and within the camp­sites; moving like a roaring lion looking for prey out there to devour! You must be clever, smart, committed, disciplined, focused and not biased about any player but above all, is your “Will To Shun Graft”, and your power to resist anything unethical if dangled before you for one reason or another. Yes, the taste of the pud­ding is in the eating but it is also a known fact that it’s only a child who will choose a “black excreta over a black pudding” – why? The reason is that both are molded sol­id black objects while one is feces, excreted from the liv­ing things, and the other is a cooked traditional delicacy by humans and wrapped in leaves for consumption! So, for you to choose wisely, you must have discerning eyes to know the bad, good and the ugly! “It’s only the eyes of a childhood that fears a painted devil…” (William Shakespeare) Thank God it’s a world without end, Good Morning Nigeria!