ABUJA – Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, on Thursday, inaugurated a committee to look into the issue of rejection of Nigeria’s agro produce in the international market. The committee whose membership is drawn from the ministry and some parastatals of the ministry and Ministry of Agriculture is headed by the Director,   Commodities and Export Department,  Mr Suleiman Audu, is charged with the responsibility of identifying the major causes of the rejection of the agro produce and proffer appropriate recommendations. Inaugurating the committee in Abuja, Adebayo said the Federal Government placed a lot of emphasis on the promotion of non- oil commodity exports,  which has led to farmers and product aggregators partnering to explore the export market for their products. -Advertisement- He noted that in recent times, Nigeria agro-products have been suffering from export rejection by most countries of Asia, Europe and America. This, he explained has led to huge financial losses with its attendant negative impact on the supply value chain and job creation. He stressed that the international market is competitive and welcomes products of high quality with relevant certifications and quality packaging that is environmentally friendly. Adebayo said the problem of quality, standard, certification and appropriate packaging for made-in-Nigeria products for export has been a recurring issue, hence the need to set up the technical committee to address the issue and proffer appropriate recommendations. Some of the terms of reference for the committee include identifying the major causes for the export rejection of Nigerian agro commodities; determining the roles played by exporters or institutional infractions that tend to promote export rejection of Nigerian agro commodities as well as suggesting measures necessary to strengthen the capacity of exporters to improve the quality, standard,  certification, and packaging for made-in-Nigeria products for export. POLL The committee is expected to develop the policy framework for Global Gap certification and quality packaging that is environmentally friendly for global trade;suggest ways of getting government at all levels to support farmers to key into Global Gap  certification for increased productivity and export; and suggest appropriate model/partnership for development of standard storage facilities for products before arriving at their final destinations; Other terms of reference of the Committee are to suggest means of strengthening assessment of export products by the appropriate and designated competent authorities an suggest other measures the committee deems fit to curb infractions and improve acceptability of Nigerian agro exports globally. The Minister told the committee that the nation was looking forward to the outcome of the assignment given to them as an antidote to the rejection being suffered by Nigerian exporters at the international market. Adebayo gave the committee six weeks within which to submit its report.