***Unveils Six Point Agenda ABEOKUTA – Adekunle Akinlade, the Ogun State governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has said that the State needs a new Sheriff to steer its affairs and unlock its destiny. Akinlade said this, Tuesday, during a formal declaration to wrestle the governorship seat from Governor Dapo Abiodun ahead of the 2023 governorship elections. -Advertisement- At the event which was held in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital the former governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement, APM in the 2019 general elections unveiled six points agenda for the race. The agenda include security, agriculture driven human capital development, strategic internally generated revenue modules, healthcare, social justice, and urban renewal. On the security, the former House of Representatives member said a security architecture comprising all existing outfit will be put in place with the sole aim of flushing out criminal elements wherever and whoever they day within a six months mandate. According to him, the outfit which will be financed from the existing Security Trust Fund and a percentage of the Internally Generated Revenue, would be led by a retired military intelligence officer with expertise in counter terrorism. On his agricultural development, Akinlade said his government would provide an enabling environment for the private sector to develop skill acquisition center and agro-processing facilities across the local governments of the State. POLL He also promised to encourage the development and establishment of large-scale cash crop farms in areas where they have relative advantage, in partnership with bodies like the Global Agriculture and Food Security Programme. The former Senior Special Assistant on Revenue and Taxation to Ogun State government between 2011 and 2014 promised to unlock the N10billion monthly IGR in the State. This, he promised to do by encouraging voluntary compliance as the most effective way or revenue collection by addressing the present challenge on inability of authorities to differentiate between income and revenue. “Upon assumption of office, we shall deploy all resources at our disposal to get at least 500,000 indigenes of the State gainfully employed through our carefully planned agricultural value chain development scheme, hand-craft skill acquisition and ICT direct service initiatives. “Unemployed taxable adults shall be encouraged to enroll in our proposed private sector-driven cottage industry ‘All Hands Engaged Scheme’.” On Education, Akinlade said, “What we will do differently is to enumerate every young adult between the ages of 18 and 35 across the State and enroll them n our ‘All Hands Engaged Scheme’ which will enable them acquire the requisite skills needed for industrial development in the State. “While being trained, they shall receive stipends from a special funds that will be created specifically for that purpose. The special funds shall be funded by companies and industries through their Corporate Social Responsibilities and relevant global entrepreneurial entities.” Two other APC aspirants, Modele Sarafa-Yusuf and Biyi Otegbeye who were at the even appealed to party members to vote for any of them except Governor Abiodun.