Borussia Dortmund chief Sebastien Kehl concedes he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Erling Haaland moved on this summer with a decision on his future due next week. The Norwegian has continued his meteoric rise with the Bundesliga side and there has been huge interest in him for several years. Haaland’s £64m release clause, which comes into affect this summer, meant the German outfit were always expected to face bids in the coming months. Manchester City are reportedly leading the race for Haaland’s signature as they seek to add a world class striker following their failed pursuit of Harry Kane last summer. Real Madrid have also been linked with the forward and could turn their attention to him should Kylian Mbappe remain at PSG. -Advertisement- Kehl admits, after months of the club dismissing Haaland’s departure, that the 21-year-old could seek pastures new with a decision imminent. “[I expect] clarity in the next week,” Kehl told STAHLWERK Doppelpass on SPORT1 when quizzed on his future. “I wouldn’t be surprised if he moved on in the end.” Dortmund were able to win the race for the forward when he first burst onto the scene at Red Bull Salzburg. They beat the likes of Manchester United to his signature and have benefitted from his quality for the past two and a half seasons. He’s scored 85 times in 88 outings. City boss Pep Guardiola has remained coy on reports that his side are closing in on a deal that will see Haaland earn £500,000-a-week. “I don’t have the concern or this business in my head right now to think about what is going to happen in this club next season,” he said. “We are playing with good striker this season. So, I don’t know what is going to happen in the future. It’s next season, so I’m not going to talk. You know I’ve been coming here for a long time, for many years and I’ve never talked about transfer windows, especially when we are playing for incredible things still this season.” Haaland has excelled on the Champions League stage with Dortmund, and his efforts have seen the German side claim the DFB Pokal, but they’ve been unable to make inroads on the European stage. Back in January the Norwegian confessed the club were seeking a decision from him. POLL He said: “I haven’t spoken about my future out of respect for Borussia Dortmund. Dortmund are pushing me to take a decision, but right now I only want to play football. It looks like I have to start taking decisions soon.”