Rivers United head coach Stan­ley Eguma said he has warned his wards against losing their focus in the title race of the 2021/2022 NPFL season. The coach was speaking after their historic 5-0 win over MFM FC in their last home at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Sta­dium, Port Harcourt. With the result, Rivers United recorded their highest win margin since the club in 2015 emerged from the merging of Sharks FC and Dolphins FC. “It was a good performance of world class standard but I think in the league, you can’t take things for granted espe­cially in the NPFL. -Advertisement- “Itisnotoveruntilitisover, we will keep working hard and en­couraging the players, ensuring thattheykeepwinningtilltheend of the league,” Eguma told www. npfl.ng after the big win. Rivers United went in front through Esor Nelson Okwa who tapped home in the 17th minute after MFM goalkeeper Folarin Abayomi kept out Ish­aq Rafiu’s shot before Chijioke Akuneto doubled the lead in first half stoppage time. Akuneto then gothis brace one minute after the interval before George Akpabio scored his first for the club, rounding off a good teammoveinthe84thminute. When it seemed as though all was over, league’s top scor­er Ishaq Rafiu netted his 14th goal of the season with virtu­ally the last kick of the game, powering home a free kick from the edge of the box. The win coming as Plateau United lost to Nasarawa United in Bauchi ensures that Rivers United extended their lead at the top of the table to seven points with eleven matches left in the season. POLL The defeat however cement­ed MFM FC position at the bot­tom of the table, six points adrift of safety. For Eguma though, having won the league previously in 2011, he knows that it is not yet uhuru for his side. Eguma hailed his players for bouncing back after their narrow loss to Kwara United on MatchDay 26. “We worked hard to get im­proved performance. It was a fantastic game, players hitting targets with precision and that’s what we expected, responding after our nightmare in Ilorin. It is a good one to return to win­ning ways after the last defeat.” Rivers United will travel to relegation haunted Heartland FC of Owerri in their next game.