Toki Mabogunje, lawyer, business consultant, capacity builder, corporate strategist and value chain developer, is the immediate past president of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI). She had a one-on-one marathon conversation with SIAKA MOMOH. The first slot of this interview was published last week Thursday. My next Challenge was how to seamlessly move into digital mode and transform the Chamber while carrying all stakeholders along. The LCCI has quite an interesting demographic in its membership. First in terms of age of representatives as well as age of member companies, there’s a diversity of sectoral groupings and various levels of networth of companies. -Advertisement- I had to consider other internal stakeholders as well as external stakeholders. The Secretariat and our huge army of volunteers, partners, collaborators, sponsors and donors. All had to be managed so that no one was left behind. Another Challenge was the financial survival of the Chamber during this extremely difficult period. The use of virtual spaces and digital tools went a long way in saving money and applying the strictest cost cutting measures. Getting staff buy in on the strict measures employed to increase efficiency and productivity so that administration of the Chamber continued through the period of the pandemic was key as it required various levels of sacrifice by staff. There were many challenges. I cannot speak of all of them here. Would you say Lagos Chamber scored high in its advocacy function when you were head, and generally is LCCI succeeding in its advocacy function? Without a doubt, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry became a household name for business people. Even more satisfying was that it drew us closer to Nigerians in the Diaspora because POLL they now had access to the Chamber through virtual interactions in ways that never existed before. We had the attention of Government at State and Federal levels. Our collaborations with MDAs increased. These collaborations led to tangible results as with our engagements with NAFDAC and FIRS. Our partnerships increased and this brought greater exposure to business opportunities and benefits to our members and the business community in General. We must remember that the LCCI today is a 133 year old institution. When you have great institutions like this, they continue to flourish. Certainly the current President, Ashiwaju (Dr.) Michael Olawale-Cole (C.O.N.) is doing well with advocacy. He has already paid visits to the Lagos State Governor and the Vice President of the Country. Is LCCI living up to expectations? I believe it is. I have been with the Chamber for 22 years and in those two decades, I have seen it grow from strength to strength. As an institution it will continue to develop and adapt to meet the needs of its members. It is because it has this capacity that it is over a century old. It continues to be at the forefront of the Chamber movement in Nigeria and we serve as a role model for others to follow. What is your take on the gender bill concerning women and the trending protest by women? As Nigerian Women, I am so glad that we are stepping up to the plate and taking the Bull by the horns. Women political participation is important because it results in tangible gains for development and democracy; including greater inclusivity and responsiveness to citizen’s needs, poverty eradication, and increased cooperation along party and ethnic lines and more sustainable peace and economic progress. There can be no meaningful development and sustainability where 50% of the country’s population continue to be denied their rights to enhanced social, economic and political participation. The UN Secretary General, Antonio Gutierrez calls for guaranteed quality education for every girl, large investments in training women and decent work, effective action to end gender-based violence, universal healthcare and gender quotas that could result in the world benefitting from more women leaders and a shared prosperity. Women’s Rights and Human Rights and we will continue to fight for these rights. What is your assessment of the Nigerian economy as it concerns the private sector under Buhari in the last seven years? What I can say is that Nigeria is a work in progress. There have been some things that have been achieved. For example the new emphasis on Non-Oil revenues which is demonstrated by the Government’s Agriculture Policy which a few years down the line has caused Agriculture to make substantial contributions to growth and this has caused the World Bank recently to review the Country’s growth rate upwards to over 3%. Another example is in transport with the revival of train services. A further example is with the various economic interventions of Government and the work being done by PEBEC on Ease of Doing Business. There are things that have been done but this is a huge Country with an area of 923,768 square km and over 200 million people. Our borders are not well policed and so we are badly affected by the happenings in our region. Today, insecurity is a major problem. We have not solved the Electricity and Energy Challenge, there is a huge infrastructure deficit, our monetary policies are a huge challenge, there are a myriad of issues still to be addressed. The Country is a work in progress. Have we done enough for Small Business? No we haven’t and unfortunately financial service entities see small business as high risk. Our financial framework as it exists is very shallow. There is no long term lending. Interest rates for lending are cut throat so small business are all looking out for Government Intervention to be able to grow their businesses. How much can the Government do? We need a financial system that’s inclusive in nature. That provides financial services for the average business person. But this does not yet exist. With the huge population that we are and the blessing of the entrepreneurial spirit that we have, this is meant to be a very prosperous nation. With poor access to finance, poor infrastructure, high cost of doing business and all the other challenges that exist, success becomes a game of survival of the fittest for small business and at what cost? There is a lot still to be done for SMEs for Nigeria to become the powerhouse and powerhorse that it is meant to be. For us to truly become that Giant of Africa that all Nigerians wish to see and experience.