LAGOS – The President, Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye, has stated that 60 to 70 percent of the workers in the financial institutions across the country are casual workers. “I can tell you that 60 to 70 percent of the workers in the financial institutions are casual workers. They are not employees of the banks or insurance companies, they are coming to duty with the attitude that they are temporary workers; they are coming with the attitude that they lack job security, so it will be easy for them to be used as Trojan horse’’, she stated. While saying that over 70 percent of Nigerian workers in the financial institutions, including banks and insurance sectors are casuals, she noted that many Nigerians mistake all workers in the financial institutions as permanent staff and as such, they are the ones committing internet frauds, the ASSBIFI boss said bank workers are professionals with grounded ethics of the profession. -Advertisement- Olasanoye, while disagreeing that 50 percent of financial crimes committed in the banking sector are done by sacked workers of some banks, said Nigerians generally are endowed with high skills and intelligence. Regarding the prevailing high-wired internet frauds been perpetrated in the nation’s banking sector, she said majority of the workers in the sector are not staff of banks, insurance and other financial institutions, rather, outsourcing companies. The 9th President of ASSIBIFI, who is also gunning for the position of the President of the Trade Union Congress, TUC, said: “majority of workers in the sector are casual staff and our employers work with outsourcing companies to engage them. “I also disagree with you that 50 percent of frauds in the financial institutions are perpetrated by the staff of the banks. They are not caused by professional bankers. Nigerians are truly endowed with high intelligence”. “We are trained as professional bankers and we know the ethics of the profession that a full-time banker brings to bear. POLL “For us, money is like the tools we work with, just like you work with your papers and biro, as a journalist. Banking is not a profession to play with.Though, some may be actually be involved in crimes and this is what we have been shouting over the years. “Yes, I agree with you that we have some of them perpetrating such frauds, but the percentage is not as high as you are quoting. “We have agreed that, instead of bringing fresh people, we should employ from the outsourced staff. I can tell you that last week, a major bank employed over 800 workers from the outsourced staff. These are parts of the things we are advocating on actualisation issue. “We are also discussing with the Ministry of Labour to have a policy in place to guide contract and actualisation of workers and until, we put all these policies in place, there will still be issues. So, it is not everybody working in the financial institutions are employees of the banks” , she added.