Barrister Emeka Iheonu, a Lagos lawyer, is a public affairs commentator and member of the African Bar Association (ABA). He spoke to EJIKEME OMENAZU on crucial national issues including the moves towards the 2023 general elections. Excerpt: As Nigerians march towards the 2023 general elections, what do Nigerians expect from the presidential aspirants who will emerge if they finally emerge president? Any Nigerian presidential aspirant, if elected president, should do everything possible to ensure the safety of lives and properties in every part of the country, exhibit transparency in governance, provide employment for jobless youths and bridge infrastructural gap. He or she, if elected, should close the gender gaps between men and women to create more sustainable and inclusive economies and societies and also include women in decision making to strengthen the 35 per cent affirmative action. Gender equality remains a major issue despite its relevance, both as a human right and as a catalyst for economic growth. This is why closing the gender gap is a central part of any strategy to create more sustainable and inclusive economies and societies. Therefore, women should be carried along in the formulation of national policies and decisions which impact them and the citizenry. The youths should also be included in formulation of policies and holding political positions. The aspirant, if finally elected, should ensure that all our monetary and fiscal policies align to sustain the value of the Naira. He or she must invest massively in agriculture to create employment and utilise the nation’s God-given resources for the people. There should be a concerted effort in ensuring drastic reductions in the prices of goods, create jobs, give Nigerians quality healthcare, stable electricity supply and, if possible, give free education from primary to university levels. High cost of living has compelled some families to withdraw their children and wards from the classrooms. Improving the standard of living of Nigerians will go a long way to help reduce criminal activities that have enveloped the country. Therefore, the aspirant, who will finally emerge president, should put in place things that will discourage our young ones from taking to crimes. The aspirant must flush out hoodlums giving Nigerians sleepless nights and provide adequate security for schools and public places. Strategies should be put in place to secure and protect schools from being invaded by kidnappers. Also, the aspirant must treat teachers specially because it’s teachers that made Presidents, Governors, Ministers, National and State Assembly members, etc. what they are today. The aspirant must ensure the real restructuring of the Federation. The States should be given priority in the sharing of any revenue from solid minerals and crude oil prevalent in a particular state of the federation before the Federal Government takes its share. An aspirant should undertake to ensure that corruption by public officials and politicians is reduced to the barest minimum by also living above board and ensuring the independence of anti-corruption agencies. The aspirant should ensure the independence and financial autonomy of the Judicial arm of government and create special courts to prosecute corruption cases. -Advertisement- How do you see the amount being charged by political parties for Intention and Nomination forms? I believe the fees being charged by political parties for forms to be filled and submitted by candidates for various positions are scandalously high. I feel the parties especially the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are trying to discourage honest and patriotic potential candidates from contesting. Only old politicians who have already enriched themselves dishonestly can afford the fees. With the level of insecurity in the country, do you think the 2023 general elections will hold in every part of the country? In the South East, if members of Nnamdi Kanu’s Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) are still being detained by security agencies and if Nigeria refuses to allow a South Easterner to vie for the presidency of the country, I am afraid the freedom fighters will likely disrupt elections in the South Eastern Region. Also, Boko Haram and other terrorists’ strongholds, especially in the North East are likely to disrupt elections in their territories. Following the persistent terrorist attacks in the Kaduna axis, Gov Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State recently called for the engagement of mercenaries. How do you see the call? Do you think the Nigerian security agencies have been overwhelmed by the terrorists? POLL I believe that terrorists, bandits, unknown gunmen, armed Fulani herdsmen, etc, have overwhelmed Nigeria’s security agencies. In fact, some of the agencies, especially the Army, have been infiltrated by those criminals. On daily basis, we hear news of attacks, killings, kidnappings and destructions perpetrated by these devil’s agents in various parts of the country. They are known to be even better equipped than the security agencies. Billions of naira budgeted over the years to purchase arms and ammunitions for the Nigerian military have not made any impact on the fight against terrorism as most of the money end up in private accounts, leading to purchase of inadequate security gadgets. There have been ineffective deployment of drones to locate the camps and settlements said criminals. Even the Air Force is unable to carry out regular air surveillances and air raids to fish them out. In the light of the above, I support Governor El Rufai’s suggestion that mercenaries be engaged to counter the devilish men and women who have vowed to make Nigeria ungovernable and the citizens to continue living and traveling in fear. Most deaths now occurring in Nigeria are due to deliberate killings happening on daily basis. Both the federal and state governments should take drastic actions to curtail the wanton killings and kidnappings. Engaging mercenaries should be one of the drastic actions. Do you see the possibility of Nigerians choosing the next president from outside the APC and PDP considering that there is not much difference between the two? Knowing how gullible most Nigerian masses are, I am afraid that APC and PDP will continue to hold sway to the detriment of some political parties genuinely interested in the progress of this country. I would have loved to see independent candidates come out to contest. I would however plead again with Nigerians to vote for persons who already have good antecedents and the wherewithal to salvage Nigeria from total collapse no matter the parties they are contesting from. Do you think the youths and women have the capacity to be elected governors and the president to bring about the needed change in country? Unfortunately, youths and women do not have the capacity yet to be elected governors and president. The old politicians who have formed themselves into a political cabals, will never allow this to come to pass as long as they are alive. Do you see religion and ethnicity playing major role in the 2023 general elections? In the past election years, religion and ethnicity usually played major roles in Nigerian elections. However, the 1992 elections for which M.K.O. Abiola/Buba Gana Kingibe won convincingly put paid to the status quo. For 2023, I feel Nigerians are now well exposed to allow those factors govern their choices on who to vote for. How do you see the demand that the next president should come from South East? Do you see it as being feasible in the coming election? The demand for the next president to come from South Eastern Nigeria may not be feasible in 2023 due to the known envy and hatred for Igbos by many other ethnic groups, especially with the current agitations for self-determination by MASSOB and IPOB. How do you see the issue of zoning and concession as they affect the two main political parties? Zoning in APC and PDP should be adhered to because it will give the various regions a sense of belonging. However, I don’t subscribe to concessions as they encourage mediocrity and election of unfit candidates. Could you give an assessment of some of the presidential aspirants that have emerged so far? Many Nigerians believe that former VP Atiku Abubakar and former Lagos governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu are corrupt and old to become president. Nigerians also believe that they do not have new ideas to save Nigeria from its current comatose economy. But, for me, I believe former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi; foremost economist, Mr. Muoghalu; CBN Governor, Mr. Emefiele, and current VP, Prof. Oshinbajo (SAN), in that order, will be more capable if any of them should emerge as president. What do you think should be the main campaign issues in the 2023 general elections? The main issues for 2023 general elections should be revitalisation of the economy, reduction in cost of living, ensuring stable electricity supply, encouraging local private refineries to produce more petroleum products and discouraging importation of fuel, ensuring that corruption is brought to the barest minimum by imposing stricter punishments for convicted corrupt politicians and public officials and establishing special courts to try corruption cases, stoppage of security votes for governors, but instead ensuring accountability within the heads of the various security, military and para military agencies, stoppage of constituency allowances for National and State Assembly members, etc. How do you see the suggestion by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Chairman, Major General Buba Marwa (rtd) that drug tests be carried out on all aspirants to political positions? There is a very high level of drug abuse in Nigeria amongst the youths and adults. The high rate of moral decay and decadence prevalent in the country, including the upsurge in criminal activities, have been attributed to the high rate of consumption of intoxicating drinks and hard drugs. There are junkies everywhere especially amongst the elite in the society. Many politicians are known to be drunkards and consumers of illicit drugs. I am therefore in support of the call by the NDLEA for political parties to add drug tests in the screening of aspirants for all available political posts or positions. Drug tests should also be conducted for aspiring men and Officers of the Nigerian Military, Police and other para military and security agencies. Though some person’s including learned friends may see the call as infringing on an individual’s right to privacy, I believe this will contribute to our having a saner, less corrupt and a morally improved society.