For about two decades, Zenith Bank has clearly distinguished itself in the banking industry through superior service quality, unique customer experience, and sound financial indices. It remains a clear leader in the digital space with several firsts in the deployment of innovative products, solutions and alternative channels that ensure convenience, speed and safety of transactions. Bamidele Ogunwusi writes; Despite the devastating effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on economies across the world, Nigeria’s financial system has remained resilient and continues to provide significant support for the domestic recovery. Data provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) showed stability in broad financial soundness indicators and sustained improvement in asset quality, alongside growing credit to the private sector. -Advertisement- Since the 1990s, Zenith Bank has remained the mirror of the banking industry in Nigeria as it has continued to display leadership through its stellar performance which has become the standard for its peers in the industry. Memory lane Zenith Bank Plc was incorporated in Nigeria under the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) as a private limited liability company on May 30, 1990. It was granted a banking licence in June 1990, to carry on the business of commercial banking and commenced business on June 16, 1990. The bank was converted into a Public Limited Liability Company on May 20, 2004. The bank’s shares were listed on October 21, 2004 on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, and in August 2015, the bank was admitted into the Premium Board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. POLL The principal activity of the bank is the provision of banking and other financial services to corporate and individual customers. Such services include granting of loans and advances, corporate finance and money market activities. The bank has six subsidiary companies namely, Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited, Zenith Pensions Custodian Limited, Zenith Bank (UK) Limited, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited, Zenith Bank (Gambia) Limited and Zenith Nominees Limited. The results of the bank’s subsidiaries have been consolidated in its three months period financial statements. Record of excellence Zenith Bank’s track record of excellent performance has earned the brand numerous awards, including being voted as Best Commercial Bank in Nigeria in the World Finance Banking Awards 2021, Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance World’s Best Banks Awards 2020 and 2021, Bank of the Year (Nigeria) in The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards 2020, and Best in Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ Africa 2020 and 2021 by the Ethical Boardroom. Also, the bank emerged as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria in the Banker Magazine Top 500 Banking Brands 2020 and 2021, Number One Bank in Nigeria by Tier-1 Capital in the “2021 Top 1000 World Banks” Ranking by The Banker Magazine and the Retail Bank of the year at the BusinessDay Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Awards 2020 and 2021. Similarly, Zenith Bank was honoured as Bank of the Decade (People’s Choice) at the ThisDay Awards 2020 and emerged winner in four categories at the Sustainability, Enterprise, and Responsibility (SERAS) Awards 2021, carting home the awards for “Best Company in Reporting and Transparency”, “Best Company in Infrastructure Development”, “Best Company in Gender Equality and Women Empowerment”, and the coveted “Most Responsible Organisation in Africa. The bank emerged as the Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance Magazine’s Best Banks Awards 2022, retaining the award for a third consecutive year. This feet was achieved among other banks from 36 countries in Africa recognised as the prestigious Global Finance announced its 29th Annual Best Bank Awards Winners. The editors of Global Finance, Daily Independent gathered, made the selections after extensive consultations with corporate financial executives, bankers and banking consultants, and analysts worldwide. They said they considered factors that ranged from the quantitative objective to the informed subjective in selecting the top banks. Objective criteria considered included: growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach, strategic relationships, new business development and innovation in products. Subjective criteria included the opinions of equity analysts, credit rating analysts, banking consultants and others involved in the industry. Mr. Ebenezer Onyeagwu, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of Zenith Bank, was quoted in a statement to have said: “This award is a testament to our tenacity despite a very challenging macroeconomic environment. Indeed, being recognised, for the third consecutive year, is an acknowledgement of the resilience of the Zenith brand as the leading financial institution in Nigeria.” He lauded the contributions and efforts of the bank’s key stakeholders – the Founder and Chairman, Jim Ovia, CON, for his pioneering role in building the structures and laying the foundation for an enduring and successful institution, the Board for the outstanding leadership they provide, the staff for their commitment and dedication as well as the Bank’s customers for their unwavering loyalty and support. Global Finance’s “Best Banks Awards” are recognised amongst the world’s most influential banking/finance and corporate professionals as the most coveted and credible awards in the banking industry, with winners chosen in 150 countries and territories across Africa, AsiaPacific, the Caribbean, Central America, Central & Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, North America and Western Europe. An excellent 2021 There is no doubt that 2921 was a unique year for Zenith Bank as a group or as a bank. In its 2021 full year financial results, the bank shone like a constant star with gross earnings of N765.6 billion, profit before tax of N280.4 billion and profit after tax of N244.6 billion. Customers’ deposits stood at N6.47 trillion, gross loans was N3.50 trillion, total assets rose to N9.45 trillion while shareholders’ funds was N1.28 trillion. This, according to analysts, is a demonstration of the bank’s commitment to deliver the best for its shareholders from inception. Rewarding shareholders’ loyalty At its 31st annual general meeting in Lagos recently, the bank got the approval of its shareholders for the payment of a final dividend of N2.80 per share, bringing the total dividend for the 2021 financial year to N3.10 per share with a total value of N97.33 billion. The Founder and Chairman of Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Jim Ovia, thanked the shareholders for their loyalty, which he said had enabled the bank to rise to the pinnacle of the nation’s financial services industry. He assured them of the bank’s commitment to consistently delivering superior value to its stakeholders. Speaking on the bank’s performance, Onyeagwu, said, “If you look at the bank’s history over the years, it has always grown and even within the pandemic. We have maintained a reasonable positive growth trajectory. “Growth is coming from the fact that we are deploying our digital capability to grow more businesses, simplify our service processes, make our processes more efficient, and deal with customers’ complaints. “Apart from developing new products, we are discovering new business verticals, especially within the retail segment, which have significant revenue.” He added, “Meeting the expectation of shareholders means we have to work harder. The team is dodged, hardworking, resilient, and above all, we have a very supportive board that comes with superior guidance.” 2022: Starting well The bank seems to have perfected all plans to ensure that it records greater success in the 2022 financial year and beyond considering its performance in the unaudited results for the first quarter of the year. The bank, according to the results, recorded 22 per cent growth in gross earnings, from N157.3 billion reported in Q1 2021 to N191.5 billion in Q1 2022 while it also recorded 11 per cent year-on-year (YoY) increase in profit before tax to N67.99 billion from N61.02 billion it recorded in the comparable period of 2021. In terms of profitability, its profit after tax also grew by 10 per cent, from N53.06 billion in Q1 2021 to N58.19 billion in Q1 2022. The growth in the top line arose from both interest income and non-interest income. The Group’s interest income rose by 25 per cent, to N126.38 billion in Q1 2022, from N101.12 billion in Q1 2021 while non-interest income grew by 12 per cent, from N51.20 billion in Q1, 2021 to N57.23 billion Q1, 2022. The growth in interest income and non-interest income followed the combined effects of an improvement in interest income on loans and advances (as risk assets continue to grow and pricing is gradually improving) and an improvement in non-interest income as the bank continued to deploy its retail strategy, thereby acquiring more customers and expanding its electronic banking income from the increased volume of transactions across all its channels. Also, the Group’s total assets grew by 9 per cent, from N9.45 trillion to N10.32 trillion in 2022, largely driven by growth in customers’ deposits. Customer deposits grew by 12 per cent, from N6.47 trillion in December 2021, to N7.25 trillion in March 2022. Savings account balance, which is solely retail, grew by over N68 billion and was a validation of the robust customer acquisition strategy and versatile electronic platforms and digital channels.