A 35-year-old Ayobami Erinfolamin has confessed to having led some of his gang in a robbery operation at Fresh FM Ibadan, a media house owned by popular Nigerian gospel singer, Yinka Aiyefele. Erinfolamin who was paraded alongside other 30 suspected criminals at the Oyo State Police Headquarters, Eleyele Ibadan on Tuesday also confirmed to have collected the sum of twenty thousand Naira (20,000) as a share of looted items stolen from the radio station. The State Commissioner of Police, CP Ngozi Onadeko who gave a details account of the incident after parading the suspect stated that on the 10th April 2022 at about 2300hrs, some members of a notorious criminal gang who specialize in invading hotels, hospitals and other public places to attack unsuspecting members of the public, invaded FRESH F.M Challenge area, Ibadan. -Advertisement- She noted that the suspected armed robbers broke and entered the studio of the FM station, attacked and dispossessed employees on duty off huge sums of money, expensive cell phones and an FM Radio Transmitter Laptop at gunpoint. CP Ngozi said, “The incident was reported at the Monitoring Unit Office, Oyo State Command and while the investigation was in progress to apprehend the perpetrators of this crime, a similar armed robbery operation was carried out at different hotels within the Ibadan metropolis by the armed robbers and on 24th April 2022. “The same criminal syndicate members stormed Delight Hospital and Fertility Center located at Ring road area, Ibadan were both patients, their relatives and employees of the hospital were attacked and dispossessed of cash, cell phones and some other valuable items at gunpoint. “Sequel to these serial armed robbery incidents, a team of Police operatives attached to the Monitoring Unit embarked on a discreet investigation and in the process, the kingpin of the armed robbery syndicate was arrested in his hideout in connection with the crimes.” POLL “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime and series of other criminal activities he had masterminded with his syndicate members in different parts of Oyo State. An investigation is still ongoing to crack the criminal network and other members of the gang who are at large with a view to recovering the valuable items that were carted away. Further developments will be communicated later.” CP. Ngozi Onadeko stressed. In his confession to journalists, Erinfolamin denied ownership of the pump-action rifle gun found in his possession but confirmed that it was used by his colleagues who are currently at large during the operation. He said, “I’m not the owner of this gun, but it was used by my friend for the operation, after we robbed Fresh FM, we also robbed Delight Hospital at Ring Road that same night, I was given 20k as my share after we’ve sold all the looted items, we collected phones, laptops only at Fresh FM. “This is the second operation that I participated in so far, I received 30k in my first operation, now that has been caught I regretted all my actions, I promise I will not go back into crime again, the authority should have mercy on me.