LAGOS – Ken Nnamani, a presidential hopeful on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has lampooned Presidential aspirants who are craftily using proxies to buy nomination forms for them, describing them as unprepared and unserious. Nnamani who spoke on Arise television on Wednesday said that the concept of collection of forms by proxies where a serious business to lead a country as complex as Nigeria is being considered shouldn’t be. “It doesn’t require somebody that is being persuaded to go. It means that the person is not even ready. The discussions, the debates so far have been about people who a group want to obtain forms for and forming a shadow group, who will claim to have contributed money to buy forms for somebody and if you take a close look at those who have bought forms for people, they appear like those who have difficulties paying their house rents. -Advertisement- “From their mode of dressing, they are on bathroom slippers, and how they raise N100 million to show that they want a particular individual to run, shows that we are starting on the wrong footing. We are telling lies and that should be discouraged. He added, “Anybody who is serious to contest should find time to go and pick up his forms and not send people and claim that he is reluctant to run. It is the reason I said that the polity is full with people who claim to be reluctant. I am not reluctant and I think that I have something to offer to the country. The former Senate President said that he thinks that Nigeria today is having a rare challenge and that the time has come to start deepening the trust, stressing that Nigerians don’t believe that there is the capacity to restore hope and trust. Meanwhile, Nnamani has expressed concern over the withdrawal letter or form 18 which his party, the APC has made mandatory for aspirants to sign and submit alongside the nomination form. He said, “As a loyal party member, if it becomes absolutely necessary and the party in its wisdom deems it necessary to ask any particular aspirant to withdrawn, I will not disobey the party. As it stands’, signing of withdrawal letter when we have not even started, doesn’t make sense to me. I have not signed it and I am not too sure about signing it when the race has not started. It is very vague to me. I have not taken the risk of signing it.