ABUJA – Ahead of the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) primary scheduled for May 28, 2022, the governor of Bauchi state and presidential aspirant under the platform of the party, Bala Mohammed has received the backing of South East delegates. Bala Mohammed, who was in the South East to seek the votes of the delegates ahead of the primary, said that the South East and North East are the zones skewed out of power equation since the return of democracy in 1999. He assured the delegates that he will support whoever gets the ticket of the part to ensure that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) returns to its opposition status. -Advertisement- He told the delegates from Anambra, Enugu and Ebonyi states that he will run a knowledge based administration if elected. He said: “I am presenting myself for election and I seek your support but if I don’t win, I will support the eventual candidate of PDP because we have to rescue Nigeria.” Some of the delegates were fascinated when they learnt that under Senator Bala Mohammed as governor of Bauchi State, many Nigerians from all the geo political zones in the country, including Igbo indigenes were among his advisers and key government officials. His campaign organisation too has as Acting DG, Prof. Udenta O. Udenta from Enugu State and other directors and members cutting across tribes and tongues of Nigeria. They described him as the unifier needed at this time for stabilization of the country. The governor also thrilled delegates in Enugu and Ebonyi. He told them he would run an inclusive government if given the party’s mandate and wins the 2023 presidential election. POLL While addressing hundreds of party delegates from Ebonyi and Enugu, he called on the delegates to join him in retrieving, rescuing and renovating the country with knowledge-based solutions. Baring his mind on the degree of reception from the South East, the governor said, “we are delighted by the enthusiasm and cooperation expressed by the delegates of FCT, Enugu, Anambra and Ebonyi. “It’s incredible how the delegates effortlessly connect with my powerful message of hope and national recovery with each region and group contributing their quota to that effort. My presidential campaign is an unstoppable movement with no doubt about it.” If given the party’s mandate, Bala said he will help in tackling the myriads of problems facing the country. “I am a visionary leader who is fully prepared for national sacrifice, who is tried and trusted and whose compelling life journey and exposure as a journalist, civil servant, senator, minister and governor have equipped me with the skills set to tackle the myriad of frightening problems this clueless APC administration has bequeathed to the nation. “Under my watch as the president, I will leverage the nationalistic instincts inherent in Nigerian citizens to drive national development both from the individual and from the community in a vertical and horizontal manner.” Commenting on the visit, Chief Okey Muo-Aroh, a chieftain of PDP in Anambra educated the delegates on the reason the party dropped zoning. He said the fact that the party was an opposition party, it would not want to go into the election with the luggage of excluding a section of the country. Speaking with journalists after the event, a member of the party, Hon Gozie Mbamalu said, “I have not listened to all the presidential aspirants of the party, so, if you are asking me to rate Senator Bala Mohammed, I may not be able to do so accurately. But I want to tell you that I’m very happy with his speech today, You know, some of us from the south, there is a way we look at Northern politicians, but I must tell you the truth, he came off as a very dispassionate politician, and who has the genuine interest of this country at heart. “He is a politician you cannot afford not to like, especially if you like this country to move forward. At least, he showed through his speeches and body language that he earnestly wants this country to grow.”