LAGOS  – Some occupants of a distressed five-floor building located at 13/17 Breadfruit Street, Lagos Island, has defied Court Order by using force to return to the building barely one week after the Lagos State Building Con­trol Agency (LASBCA) evacu­ated them from the building. LASBCA had on Monday, May 16, 2022, evacuated occu­pants of the distressed building in compliance with an order of court for it to be re-stabilised or face demolition as directed by the stability report of the Lagos State Materials Testing Labo­ratory submitted to the court. In a ruling delivered on May 13, 2022 in the suit filed by Attorney General of Lagos State against African Alliance Insurance and 13 others, a Spe­cial Offences Court in Ikeja had directed LASBCA to evacuate the occupants to implement a non-destructive test, NDT re­port submitted to the court by LASBCA -Advertisement- The court presided over by Magistrate A.I. Abina also directed that the NDT report implementation including to­tal renovation of the building be carried out while consider­ing the interest of other defen­dants/ occupants. Moments after the agency executed the court ruling last week and left the premises, some of the occupants in com­pany of military officers came back and tried to re-occupy the building and when that failed they rushed to Police Force CIID Alagbon to seek assis­tance to re-occupy the property and frustrate the renovation of the property. By their actions the trad­ers risk being arrested and charged for contempt of court. The occupants according to averments made in court had similarly disregarded an earli­er interim order made on 25th October, 2021 to evacuate and seal up the distressed building for safety purpose when they broke the government seal on the property, re-occupy the same and continued to trade their goods there. Prior to the latest develop­ment, the Lagos Planning Per­mit Authority had on August 6, 2020, granted renovation per­mit to owners of the property, African Alliance Assurance Co Ltd. Also on September 28, 2020, LASBCA granted per­mission to the same owner to commence construction works on the property. POLL However, efforts to com­mence renovation and re-stabili­sation of the structure have con­tinued to be frustrated by some of the trader-occupants whose sub-tenancies have expired.