Olayemi Shonubi is the president, Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS). He was a guest speaker at the recently held Property and Environment Writers Association of Nigeria (PEWAN) quarterly interactive session. He spoke to Daily Independent on some salient issues of national interest. Excerpts: What is your view of Nigerians reactions to intangible services like that of the quantity surveyors? You know the quantity surveyors cost the project to enable the contractor to work on it. But you will discover that the moment the QS does his job and hands it over to the client, he sidelines him without payment and hands the job over to the contractor. The contractor starts the job only because he has been paid. The client goes ahead to pay the contractor while the person who makes it possible for the contractor to go on site is not paid. -Advertisement- But how is that possible? I mean what are the terms of engagement? It doesn’t matter the terms of engagement, even government itself does the same thing. I have colleagues who work with the Kaduna State government and they have not been paid their fees in the last six years. If you talk to one or two consultants, they will tell you similar stories. Once they get the document from you, end of story. But isn’t that a reason for you guys to re-strategise? One of the problems that we have in that industry now, is also because of that one particular strategy. When you do the design for construction project and you hand it over to the client. He will tell you sorry o, that he doesn’t have money now and may suspend the project. Because he has said so, he won’t pay for the services of the architect or QS. You give a bill of quantities to the client, he collects it and begins to tell you stories. Meanwhile, the contractor has been mobilised to start work on site. What is the NIQS doing about it? POLL It is difficult to do anything about it. When you have a transaction between two parties, you can’t legislate. It is a private transaction. What do you have to say on the menace of incessant building collapse and how to curb it? The spate of collapse of buildings under construction in recent time, with the attendant loss of lives, properties, investment, income/livelihood, is a sad development that calls to question, the credibility and integrity of the entire construction process, from the application for planning approvals/building permits, to the monitoring of the actual constructions, in order to ensure that they conform to the approvals given up for the Issuance of certificate of fit for habitation. There is therefore need for government to strengthen her policies for obtaining planning approvals/building permits as well as enforcement of the various policies enacted in the past to ensure adequate monitoring of the actual construction to prevent further occurrences. Governments at all levels need to strengthen the laws that govern construction processes and should include provisions for severe penalties, not only fines, for everyone involved in any collapsed building project, from approval level to execution level. Endemic corruption at all levels has blinded most people to adherence to professionalism that they don’t care to sacrifice money for human life. We have got to a stage where professional blacklisting alone as punitive measure is not sufficient and can no longer address the issue, as erring professionals can always get something else to do to earn a living. But when an erring professional is made to face life imprisonment or death sentence, l reckon that this will help to bring sanity as well as curb these untoward developments. Don’t you think prescribing a death sentence for violators of building construction laws is too harsh? Alright, can you count the number of people that died in the Ikoyi 21-storey building collapse? Do you think it will be too much to sentence those who are responsible for the collapse to death? I mean, when you consider the gravity of what they have done. That’s on the extreme measure. It is just like you driving without a driver’s licence (and you hit someone who dies) it is seen as manslaughter. What is going on right now is that they withdraw your licence of practice. If you just consider withdrawal of a person’s licence for practice, the man can go into something else and life continues with him. Meanwhile, he has wasted several other lives which cannot be brought back. The average Nigerian does not like to pay fees. We need to reconsider how we handle things. What in your views are the implications of the increase in the cost of construction materials on affordable housing? The current increase in the cost of construction materials is attributable to the current invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which has led to rising energy and logistics costs globally, as well as further exacerbated the global economy, which was just recovering from the disruptions created by the COVID 19 pandemic. It has far-reaching implications for the provision of affordable housing, as fewer houses can be provided within the resources available to the government. Hence, there is a need to marshal out plans to cushion the effects. These may include amongst others, adopting indigenous architecture and materials as well as technology for construction; and providing incentives for the manufacture of requisite materials whose raw materials abound largely all over the country. It is only government that can engage in social housing. However, there are so many demands on the resources available to the government. These range from infrastructure development to demands from educational institutions and provision of healthcare services. I believe that the coming upstream of the Family Homes Funds (FHF) and the National Mortgage Refinancing Company (NMRC) should help to cushion the effects of the housing crisis in releasing the much needed credit as well as funds for housing development. Do you think the Nigerian Government and the private sector are meeting the best practices in public procurement? On the surface, one is tempted to say yes given the existence of BPP Act which governs procurement in the public sector. But in reality, given reports from the project tracking exercises organized by the ICPC in conjunction with our Institute, the NIQS, and some other CSOs, our publicly funded projects are still enmeshed in corruption. In a situation where MDAs undertake projects outside their areas of operations, leaves room for a lot of underhand deals aside from further increasing the administrative costs of running such projects. The private sector situation, where no law binds the award and execution of contracts other than the basic corporate governance code, is more abysmal. However, because the spotlight is usually on the public sector, the tendency is to believe that corruption exists only in the public sector. There is the need for all procurements from constituency projects to be warehoused under a specific MDA for effectively monitoring and supervision. What is the position of the NIQS on the recently signed Executive Order on National Infrastructure and Building Maintenance? We support the Executive Order 11 as it is called and believe that it is long overdue in coming. One of its benefits is that it will not only create job opportunities for the unemployed artisans, who will be engaged in the maintenance of these assets of government, but will also ensure that the value of these assets appreciates over their lifetime, unlike what hitherto obtained previously. There are many linkages that are likely to result from this initiative, for instance, our paint manufacturers are most likely to attract more patronage, so also are other building component manufacturers. The maintenance of government assets will further demonstrate the conscious efforts by the government towards meeting some of the sustainable development goals enunciated by the United Nations.