EMMANUEL OBETA Brand Influencers and Their Types Although many influencers are celebrities, not all influencers have followers in the hundreds of thousands. -Advertisement- Rather, some have only a few thousand followers, like a micro-influencer, but still, have high authority within a niche. The influencers chosen by an organization will depend on your brand’s desired reach and the average engagement you’d like an influencer to have with followers. Unlike brand ambassador relationships, your brand’s relationships with influencers will likely be short-term. An influencer will usually promote a product only once or twice. Influencer marketing doesn’t just involve celebrities, it revolves around influencers, many of whom would never consider themselves famous in an offline setting. Influencers are selected due to their power to affect the purchasing decisions of others because of their authority, knowledge, position, or relationship with the audience and also as a result of the audience following in a distinct niche, with whom they actively engage. POLL Influencers are constantly coming up with new content for their audiences, based on their knowledge of what keeps these audiences engaged which helps them systematically build a keen and enthusiastic audience. These people as a result follow the influencer rather than a brand. They consequently care less about your brand and are more concerned about the opinions of the influencers. While Instagram Influencer marketing is a well-known strategy, there are many other networks that are growing for influencers. According to Adweek, the industry is set to reach $10 billion in worth by 2020. Other networks like Snapchat, YouTube and TikTok have their own set of influencers with different demographics. Influencer marketing agency Mediakix in its survey in 2018 to find out what the perspectives of marketers were concerning influencer marketing found out that 89% of those surveyed, were of the opinion that the ROI from influencer marketing was comparable to or better than other networks while 80% of marketers say influencer marketing is effective. Another study showed that Influencer marketing content delivers 11 times higher ROI than traditional forms of digital marketing. The same survey noted that 65% of marketers plan on increasing their budgets for influencer marketing for the subsequent years. Other researches about Influencer marketing have also shown very wonderful results. The Digital Marketing Institute in their own survey found out that 71% of marketers are of the opinion that the quality of customers and traffic from influencer marketing is better than other sources while 49% of consumers today depend on influencer recommendations for their purchase decisions. 60% of consumers have also agreed that they’ve been influenced by a recommendation when shopping in-store. Like any marketing tactic, an influencer program takes deliberate targeting and planning. Strategic success won’t come by just a haphazard approach or by throwing up offers or proposals to just anyone or everyone who asks for it. Different Types of Brand Influencers According to Influencermarketinghub.com there are about twelve different types of brand influencers, four types are based on the number of audience followers and eight are based on the type of content or niche covered by the influencer. Nano Influencers. These types of influencers have between 1K–10K followers on their social media channels. They typically have a very engaged social media following and great engagement rates and are very vocal advocates of the brands and products they love and their followers appreciate their authentic recommendations and commentary. They have a very close relationship with their followers and take the time to engage with their followers to cultivate those relationships. Having a smaller audience allows nano-influencers to bond with the people who follow them more regularly (as compared to a celebrity with millions of fans) via their channel Micro influencers have between 10K–100K followers. Even though they have a pretty large following, micro influencers are still viewed as relatable to their followers and tend to have an engaged audience. At this level, influencers tend to specialize in a particular niche. They also typically have high engagement rates and a targeted audience. This makes it easier for brands to create specialized sponsorships with these influencers. Macro influencers according to Influencermarketinghub.com have between 100K–1M followers and tend toward a broader appeal than micro influencers. Macro influencers are typically internet-made celebrities and might be social media stars, bloggers, vloggers, or podcasters. Macro influencers not only have a large audience but it’s likely that they’ve developed that audience over months or years of nurturing relationships while growing followers. Because of their larger follower numbers, they will probably have a relatively low engagement rate. Macro influencers are great for bringing awareness to your brand, products, and services and can be useful for increasing your own engagement rates, boost your brand’s reach as well as increase your brand’s reputation. Mega influencers and celebrities have more than 1 million followers. Since they themselves are typically celebrities, you’ll have to have a healthy marketing budget to afford them. It’s important to understand that the audiences attracted by mega influencers are going to be very broad. If you have a large budget and are working on a brand awareness campaign, mega influencers can get your products in front of as many eyes as possible which is great provided your brand has an appeal across segments. Gamers. The global gaming market size is expected to gain momentum by reaching USD 545.98 billion by 2028 while exhibiting a CAGR of 13.20% between 2021 and 2028. In its report titled “Gaming Market Size, Share & Forecast 2021-2028”, Fortune Business Insights mentions that the market stood at USD 203.12 billion in 2020. Gaming influencers usually live stream their games on platforms like Twitch and YouTube and can garner millions of followers who are looking to improve their own gameplay or learn more about gaming. While they often promote video games and game-related products and brands, gaming influencers represent such a targeted niche that vehicle, clothing, shoes, and snack and beverage brands are likely to get great results with a gaming influencer partnership. +2348139322773 eobeta@gmail.com