The South-East zonal Coordinator of Nigeria Allied Health Professionals as well as the Anambra State Chairman, Comrade Charles Nwoye has berated the Federal Government and State for neglecting health workers in South East and other parts of Nigeria. Nwoye while addressing newsmen in Nnewi in remembrance of this year’s Workers Day described labour as the engine room of any society, adding that the economy of any nation is dependent on a healthy labour force which he said should be properly managed. According to him, once the labour force was managed well that the economy would thrive. He explained that the nation’s economy had continued to go down to indicate that the labour force had been mismanaged and neglected by politicians who he described as bad managers of State affairs. “The healthcare workers are not receiving a befitting treatment from any of the three tiers of government. Governments have not been doing well for workers, especially the health workers who deserve preferential treatment because of the strategic nature of their job. “We are suffering and being exposed to dangers. Most of our members work 24 hours because we stay on call at all times. We are not given any option. We have enormous responsibilities and there should be adequate welfare management for the health workers. “There are issues not being tackled by the government. At the federal level, our members have been on pay which is supposed to have been adjusted since the 2010 consolidated salary structure. “We are using this opportunity to call on the Federal Government again to quickly look at the Consolidated Health Salary Structure (CONHESS) for health workers and implement the adjustment we proposed in 2017. It was agreed upon in 2017 and is still not implemented. It was due in 2010, ” he said. Nwoye said the negotiation was being done under five unions of the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU). He regretted that this had not been implemented, adding that the adjustment they were demanding was to add one or two figures to what they currently receive. POLL “From 2014 till date, you know the rate of inflation the nation has gone through, the devaluation naira has gone through. Check the margin and you will find out that it is more than one hundred per cent. Yet we receive the same salary. The government borrows here and there as the naira value drastically drops. “The salary that could cater for a family of four in 2014, for instance, can no longer cater for them now. And the salary remains the same without any increment. How can we survive? We are suffering in earnest. “Anybody who says we embark on incessant strikes is not being fair to us. The word incessant is either coming from our enemies or from the opposition. We do not go on strike without any reason. Anybody who accuses us of incessant strikes is ignorant of the situation on the ground.