For British prime minister, during the World War II era (1939-1945) ‘To jaw jaw is always better than to war war (and) In war, resolution; in defeat, defiance; in victory, magnanimity.’ In order words, what the great politician meant was that peace making is it – peace making is better than gun totting, nuclear deployments, shelling of cities, pogrom, annihilation of races, etc.! We saw it in World War II. We saw it in Iraq. We saw it in Vietnam. We saw it in Afghanistan. We saw it in Nigeria’s Boko Haram. And we are now seeing it in the trending Russia/Ukraine Conflict. With Boko Haram and allied crisis, there is senseless letting of blood, villages are attacked and set on fire. And more worrisome is that farmers’ farms are sprawling ruins resulting in food insecurity, hunger and further strife. -Advertisement- Global economy We will be living in a fool’s paradise if we think that the Russia/ Ukraine crisis is one remote geographical space from us and so does not have any impact on us. It has and surely does. Let us look at, for an instance, the implication for the global economy as discussed by Dr Muda Yusuf, former director general Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry and currently CEO Centre for Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE). According to Muda Yusuf, because of the strategic role of Russia in the global oil market and the global energy market, energy cost will increase globally and this will further worsen the challenge of inflation that many of the advanced countries have been grappling with in the last couple of months. Europe and America cases He cited the cases of Europe and America saying inflation has reached levels that have never been experienced over the last thirty to forty years. He explained: “This conflict will further exacerbate the global inflationary situation. In same vein, Russia is the biggest supplier of gas to Europe. It supplies about 40% of the gas needs of European countries. These supplies will be disrupted which means that the cost of gas will increase, not just in Europe, but globally. This has grave implications for inflation in Europe as gas is a major source of energy. Global stock prices plunged, although there is a momentary recovery. But for as long as these conflicts and the barrage of sanctions continue, the resultant uncertainty would continue to dampen the prospects in global equities market and soften the pace of global economic recovery”. Global wheat market POLL We all know what wheat means to our daily meal – bread, pasta, chinchin, etc. Yusuf explained: “ Ukraine and Russia are major producers of wheat. They account for about 30% of the global wheat export. Wheat is a major raw material for the production of flour which is used for bread and some other confectionaries. Therefore, the current development is going to disrupt the supply of wheat in the global market. There is therefore a risk of a hike in the cost of wheat which will affect the price of flour and a knock-on effect on the price of bread and other confectioneries”. Global trade and investment The world is a global village. No country is an island unto itself. We have trade and investment relations with Russia, Ukraine, NATO countries, China and India, who are on the side of Ukraine. What affects them, by extension, affects us. Global trade Muda Yusuf’s argument corroborates this. For him, global trade will also be affected as Russia is also a major player in the global economy – there are major investments owned by Russians across the world. “There are financial transactions involving the Russian investors. There are issues of trade especially in the area of iron and steel for which both Ukraine and Russia are reputed. The iron and steel market are also going to be affected by this, we are therefore likely to see a spike in prices of iron and steel products globally,” he argued. Recall our jinxed Ajaokuta steel project and allied steel companies across the country. We have discussed our troubled steel industry robustly on these pages in the last few weeks and years back. The Russians are currently on top of it, permit me to use our politician’s evasive language. Risks of cyber-attacks Yusuf added that there are also risks of cyber-attacks “because Russia has very strong competencies in the cyberspace and if the situation degenerate we may see the deployment of cyber-attacks as part of the process of this war”. Moreover, Nigerian youths are students of universities and several other higher institutions of learning across Europe. In fact, we have seen video clips of Nigerian students moving out of Russia to other countries in same axis and some coming back home. As the conflict escalates, more and more Nigeria students will become refugees. Pentagon’s show of emotion According to reports, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby on Friday April 29 became visibly emotional as he talked about the horrors that have been unfolding in Ukraine since Russia invaded in February. Speaking to reporters at the Pentagon, Kirby was asked if he thinks Russian President Vladimir Putin is a “rational actor” after launching a war that has reportedly killed at least 10,000 civilians in Ukraine, including at least two Americans. His response: “It’s hard to look at what he’s doing in Ukraine, what his forces are doing in Ukraine, and think that any ethical, moral individual could justify that. It’s difficult to look at,” Kirby said, his voice starting to strain. It shows all are worried by the senseless bloodletting, the annihilation, taking place in Ukraine. All said, the right thing to do now is jaw jaw and not war war. Afterall, there are precedents in Colombia and Northern Ireland and some other places where foes met to let peace reign.