The House of Representatives, on February 14, this year, rejected a bill seeking to regulate foreign studies for children and wards of Nigerian public servants. The Bill for an Act to regulate international studies for wards and children of public officers was solidly opposed at the second reading – the second time in four years that the Bill would suffer that fate. House of Reps member, Sergius Ogun, who had sponsored the bill, said: “I believe that public officers should be subjected to the util­ity of the public institutions which they are responsible for building and maintaining.” While reifying his point, he said: “As I speak now, students of Nigerian universities are sitting at home doing nothing due to the strike action embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, in protest against poor remuneration, poor infrastructure, and poor conditions of service, under-funding of universities, delay in the payment of the elon­gated salary structure, amongst others.” -Advertisement- We are now in May, and the students are still at home, well over two months after the strike action commenced. At the beginning of the strike action, Education Minister, Adamu Adamu, had claimed that the action of the lecturers was sudden – even though they had given a long stretch of warning – and long af­ter the suddenness, not much has been done to address the issues that led to the strike, which is basically the failure of the government to appropriately inject much needed funds into the universities and standardise the condi­tions of service of their staff. Two principal actors involved in the ne­gotiations to end the strike – Minister of La­bour, Chris Ngige, and Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba – are now presidential aspirants and have better things to do with their time rather than being bugged by negotiation with striking lecturers. Indeed, the ministers’ nerve to attempt the political high jump of presidential contest when they had evidently proved grossly in­capable of handling minor ministerial tasks is truly mind-blowing. This is what happens when public officers are not compelled to be accountable – their appointment is just a lucky streak or compensation for a task done in favour of the appointment giver. In which case, it matters little whether they ac­quit themselves well on the job or not. This is also why the Minister of Education himself, Adamu, reportedly walked out of a meeting with the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). He was under no obliga­tion to address the issues raised by the group. Nigerian public servants are not under any obligations, not even moral obligation, to account for their official roles – except they have a stake in the matter. So, what stake do the public servants who occupy the top rungs of the administrative ladder in the education ministry have in the sector? Their children are far away from the Augean stable called Nigerian education system. This was precisely the point Hon. Sergius Ogun was trying to make. Your children can’t be schooling in a Nigerian university and you walk past them sitting idle at home every day, for more than two months, without feeling some surge of apprehension. When other peo­ple’s children are involved, it’s a distant story, and not anything to worry about. The rot in the education sector is such that the Rivers Niger and Benue cannot cleanse. It is expected to get worse in the nearest fu­ture and no one in the present calamitous government of Muhammadu Buhari is go­ing to waste their time doing anything about it. Buhari himself, when asked why he chose foreign schools for his children, had told the world with pride that it is “because I can af­ford it”. Nicholas Ossai, one of the Rep members who opposed Sergius Ogun’s Bill, argued that “my children have the right to be educated anywhere in the world”, which misses the point. What message does a public servant convey when he sends his children to a foreign institution? Simple: he has no trust in the ed­ucational system at home. The substandard education is only good for children of the poor who cannot afford it like our president can. In the last seven years, all of Buhari’s preten­tions have exploded in his face. POLL How do you convince me that you have in­terest in what you have rejected? Members of government who send their children to schools abroad are insiders who know that the system is a bad job and they would have nothing to do with it. And because it does not affect them, they can have no true feelings for it. So, if you were wondering why Buhari and his men are unperturbed about the parlous state of university education in Nigeria, then you now know why. Ironically, one of the major presidential aspirants, Atiku Abubakar, has established a university in Nigeria but he also sends his children abroad. He does not consider the school good enough for his children and would not raise the standard to meet those of the schools abroad to make it fit for his children. There’s so much fooling around in this country. Some people just take others for granted. It’s sickening. Even though Ngige may now seem to have lost the nationalistic vim he once had, at least it is on record that he has demonstrated in­volvement in the local education system by allowing his children to be educated in Nige­rian universities, and once proudly proclaim, “I didn’t send them to private ones – one grad­uated from Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Awka, and my daughter, at UNILAG.” On the other hand, those without moral scruples prefer foreign educational turfs: Buhari’s children go through places such as Universities of Plymouth, Leicester, and Surrey. Osinbajo’s son is said to have recent­ly graduated from Warwick University – an event which he reportedly celebrated on so­cial media. These leaders belong to the All Pretenders Camp (APC). They are prepared to pay whatever it costs to train their children abroad where they pay between N10million to N17million per ses­sion but they can only allocate a paltry six per cent to education in the annual budget, against the UNESCO recommendation of 15 to 20 per cent. If you are a tailor and you buy ‘al­ready-made’ dresses, then you are a poorly trained tailor, indeed, who cannot make dresses for yourself. If you’re a bricklayer but need someone else to build your per­sonal house for you, I will avoid you when I am looking for a bricklayer. A leader who does not believe in the system he supervises should not be allowed to continue supervis­ing that system. It is pathetic that Nigerian students spend six or seven years to complete a four-year pro­gramme. What do you make of this disconti­nuities in their courses and fragmentations in learning? University education is sup­posed to be a continuous programme of en­quiry with pauses at regular periods to mark completion of segments until the course of enquiry has been concluded. Where there are regular truncation of course periods, the programme becomes faulty and unable to deliver its goals. This is the fate of university education in Nigeria today. Sadly, the government officials who have afflicted the system with their insensitivity and lack of vision are the same wailers who proclaim it on rooftops that Nigerian univer­sities are churning out unemployable gradu­ates. Why are they unemployable? When did these officials start noticing the lapses in the system, and what have they done to address them? Why, for instance, would the President and his education ministers be so unruffled by the plight of students at home, knowing all the short term social consequences and long term disaster for the country? The government’s answers to the ques­tions above are predictable. The most pre­dictable answer is that they have been work­ing round the clock to cut short the crisis but the lecturers are not cooperating, and under the circumstances there is only so much they can do. The recent strike action has resulted from failure by the Federal Government to satis­factorily address all the issues raised in the 2020 FGN/ASUU Memorandum of Action. There was a four-week warning strike win­dow provided for the Federal Government to address the issues, and when it failed, the union went on an eight-week strike on Mon­day, March 14, but this period also produced no result. National President of ASUU, Prof. Em­manuel Osodeke, has accused the Federal Government of promoting the standoff by its attitude, and insisted on their demands, which include the deployment of the Univer­sity Transparency System (UTAS) in place of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll In­formation System (IPPIS) prescribed by the Federal Government, as well as the imple­mentation of its (ASUU’s) N30billion take-off fund recommendation for the setting up of new universities. According to ASUU, “The proliferation of universities is embarrassing. Every senator now has a bill in which they are demanding that universities be set up in their constitu­encies without adequate provisions made for the funding. “We are suggesting that the law mandat­ing the National Universities Commission, NUC, to license new universities be amended to ensure that at least a new university will have a take-off grant of not less than N30bil­lion kept somewhere. “Some state governments that are ow­ing lecturers in their universities over six months’ salary arrears are also setting up new ones, that is a huge joke. Where will they get money to fund them?” In his response, Education Minister, Chris Ngige, noted that the university lecturers have demonstrated a lack of sincerity in their negotiations with the Federal Govern­ment. He said the UTAS, which ASUU came up with as payment mode against the govern­ment’s IPPIS, had not passed the integrity and security tests conducted by the National Information Technology Development Agen­cy (NITDA). Despite demonstrations by students in Benin City and elsewhere over their con­tinued stay at home, university and govern­ment officials carry on as though nothing is happening. While government officials, especial concerned ministers, have plunged into politics, university officials have turned the period into holidays. A national news­paper on Thursday reported that amid the ongoing strike by lecturers, wives of Vice Chancellors of public universities were set to travel to Istanbul, Turkey, for a five-day conference, according to a letter cited by the newspaper. The ‘Invitation to the Istanbul 5-Day Lead­ership & Management Masterclass, Fellow­ship Induction for Spouses of Vice Chan­cellors, Women in Academics and Higher Education Leadership’ will cost each of the women N1.5million (for course form to at­tend the programme). The insensitivity of the Federal Govern­ment and the recalcitrance of ASUU will only produce miseducated Nigerians and worsen an already appalling educational profile. But, of course, the children of the privileged will not be part of the decay because their parents, like our president, can afford overseas educa­tion for them. I wish, honestly, that Nigerian students across the country could get themselves to­gether and teach these idiots in power some lessons. Wallahi!