All is now set for the final of the 2022 JOF Under-13 Football Championship taking place today, Sun­day, May 1 at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos be­tween Paul Boys of Abo­ru and Bullet Babes of Badagry. The grassroots age grade football competi­tion which kicked off on March 5 produced sterling displays from the partici­pating 32 teams at the end of which the young lads at Paul Boys and Bullet Babes scaled all hurdles to book respectively final tickets. To reach this stage of the competition, Paul Boys beat Loko Babes of Yaba 3-2 in one of the semi­final ties, while Badagry’s Bullet Babes piped their opponents from Ibeju Lek­ki, Solution Boys 1-0 in the second semifinal. While the final match is scheduled for 3pm, the third place match will be played between Solution Boys and Loko Babes by 1pm. The sponsor, JOF Ni­geria Limited and the organisers of the cham­pionship, Lagos State Grassroots Soccer Asso­ciation are enthusiastic that the competition has lived up to expectations with the performances of the teams who displayed good soccer artistry on the field of play. Founder and CEO of JOF Nigeria Limited, Dr. Olusegun Olugboyegun congratulated the final­ists. He expressed his hap­piness with the opportuni­ty JOF U-13 Cup has given the youths in Lagos and Nigeria at large to engage themselves in competitive and positive drives. Adeyinka Adetunji, Di­rector Strategic Support Services of the company said that “JOF Nigeria Limited, as a wholly indig­enous Nigerian company, would continue to encour­age, support and showcase this type of constructive youth event in our coun­try.” He commended the support from the sport­ing press, while he also appreciates product sup­port from Milo, Maltina, Mabisco Biscuits, Indom­ie Noddles, JOF Salt, Bold Soft Drink and Custodian Insurance among others. POLL A total sum of N950,000 will be up for grabs by the winners on the final day. The first position will win N350,000 with the second, third and fourth positions taking home N250,000, N200,000 and N150,000 re­spectively.