No doubt the national team of Nigeria, the Super Eagles will rise again. I say this be­cause the team is about to be re­positioned from its past years of football degradation. The Eagles, who ruled Africa with the first spot in the Confederation of Af­rican Football (CAF) chart had also maintained the fifth position on Federated International Foot­ball Association (FIFA) chart for years having won the CAF Uni­ty Cup in Tunisia in 1994, after fourteen years the team lifted the trophy in Lagos, Nigeria, when the country hosted the Nations’ Cup tourney in 1980 under late Brazilian coach, Father Tiko. After the Tunisian victory, the Eagles proceeded to the United States of America for the 1994 FIFA Mundial, where the team qualified for the second round of the fiesta. The Eagles trended in America as debutants of the world cup winning matches and playing like a team who has been in the world cup business with a knowledgeable Dutch coach, Clemens Westerhof, who brought the much dreaded Eagles to the limelight in Af­rica nay the world. Westerhof worked closely with his compa­triot, Bonfrere Jo, and one of the best locals at the time, Chair­man Christian Chukwu who was former skipper of the defunct Green Eagles! Yes, the Eagles became a sought-after national team for grade ‘A’ friendly matches across the globe. The team’s superlative performance was admired by FIFA, CAF, and UEFA, amongst other Confederations and feder­ations who never believed the Super Eagles could even stretch the Azzuris, the Italian nation­al team to a serious world cup match, where the Eagles were leading the Italians under Coach Arigo Sacchi 1-0 in the first stan­za of that memorable match. It could be recalled that the match was the duel that actually saw Nigeria through to the glimpse of the comity of football nations. -Advertisement- Though, the crucial match ended 2-1 in favour of Italy at the end of the second stanza; and that was the match that exited Nigeria from the championship during the second round. Hither­to, the Eagles have been unable to erase that record of 1994 in spite of the numerous world cups the Eagles have participated in! Having said so, I must confess in today’s column that the credit of these achievements was made possible under the aforemen­tioned foreign coaches who have led the Eagles at one time or the other! It would also be recalled that these achievements were re­corded under the defunct Nigeria Football Association (NFA). I want to reiterate here once again that the Super Eagles will rise again as the title of this es­say was put. This is so because the employment modus operandi for Peseiro Jose, the new Eagles Head Coach was fantastically done as the Sports Ministry this time made a wonderful input in the endorsed agreement of the Portuguese with the football fed­eration. The amended positioning of the Assistant coaches with the appointment of former Eagles’ supersonic left-winger, and of course, one time world best to work with Peseiro as the first Assistant coach is applaudable. That again is where the federa­tion got it right by its amendment of the coaches’ placements under Peseiro. I foresee a good working relationship between the duo of Peseiro and Finidi George! How­ever, the other coaches followed with very appropriate position­ing. Nigeria had always patronised the Brazilian football tacticians in the days of yore; then, Brazil ruled the world of football, so the country had so much confi­dence in Brazilian coaches. And of course, one of the coaches as earlier mentioned in this column won the first Nations Cup for Ni­geria in 1980. POLL After the exit of the Brazil­ians, Nigerian coaches now held sway with the national team. However, amongst all the locals then, it was only Chief Festus Onigbinde, who was able to deliver the Nations’ Cup sil­ver medal for the country in Ivo­ry Coast. That record of coach Onigbinde remains unbeaten in that category, others have been bronze medals! Nigeria, after that era, switched to Deutschland (The Netherlands) to be precise where Westerhof was hired from and fourteen years after, the Dutchman won the second Unity Cup for Nigeria far away from Tunisia after winning some bronzes in previous Na­tions Cups prior to Tunisia’94! He capped it all by giving the first world cup ticket to the country before he gloriously left Nigeria! He still remains a very good friend of Nigeria. It was after his era, that Nigeria’s football took a nose-dive into the woods. This seems to be a new begin­ning with a Portuguese coach said to be a friend and compatri­ot to the popular Jose Mourin­ho, the self-acclaimed “Special One” and the current coach of Roma FC of Italy. Peseiro, who had coached several teams in­cluding Venezuela, recent be­fore porting to Nigeria could be the one we hope can revive Nigerian football, especially re­turning the Eagles to her for­mer glory days. This is also to welcome Jose Peseiro to Nigeria as we expect much from him. Thank God it’s a world without end, Amen. Good Morning Ni­geria!