ABUJA – Original inhabitants of Abu­ja have denied asking for the sack of Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, the Minister of State for the Federal Capital Ter­ritory (FCT), saying they are satisfied with the leadership style of both FCT ministers. A civil society organisa­tion, Abuja Grassroots Ad­vocacy Project (AGAP), in a press briefing on Saturday, said the natives did not ex­press dissatisfaction or lack of confidence with the way and manner the FCT minis­ter and Minister of State had been handling FCT affairs. The natives appealed to the Federal Government and the ministers of the FCT to ignore such a call, as it was borne out of bias and ignorance about the happenings in the FCT. -Advertisement- Comrade Yunusa Ahmad­ul Yusuf, Chief Advocate of the group, hinted that the re­cent happenings in the FCT, concerning the suspension of the swearing-in of the newly elected chairman, were not the fault of the FCT minister or the Minister of State. He said: “We are all wit­nesses of the efforts the FCT Minister of State made during the elections. People should learn how to sepa­rate issues. Her capacity has never been in doubt as the minister overseeing the area councils “We are against the call by someone who just sits in his parlour and calls for the sack of the Minister of State for FCT. The person making the calls knows nothing about what is happening in the FCT. “His action is dead on arriv­al because he cannot instruct President Muhammad Buhari on who to appoint or sack, he does not have that power or capacity. We, the natives of the FCT, are the ones that can com­plain of none performance of any minister and ask for a re­placement.” Yusuf said that from their assessment presently, both ministers had been working in partnership for the im­provement of the FCT and the interest of Abuja natives, so they were satisfied with their performances. POLL “We are convinced that the call is not coming from a good source and should not be tak­en seriously. The call is biased and should be ignored in the interest of the good people of the FCT